I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for the Navy. As a West Australian I am concerned about the naval base at Cockburn Sound. Can the Minister advise me of the number of type of vessels which will be operating from that base when it is completed? In view of the fact that there are at present insufficient dry docking facilities in Western Australia, will these facilities be developed at this base? 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General. As the carrying of the motion moved by  Senator Wood  on 19 th August leaves Canberra courts unable to try persons for criminal offences and  I  believe this is a rather serious situation, have the AttorneyGeneral and the Government looked at the possibility of moving quickly to reintroduce the Evidence Ordinance and make it law? 1 feel that we might listen to the Attorney-General-- 
What  I  am trying to get at is: As we are tossing this matter backwards and forwards while people are. waiting to be tried for criminal offences in Canberra, is there some way by which we can overcome the problem quickly? 
I feel that we have discussed this matter long enough. The Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  has made his point. He explained to us earlier that it took a certain time to get legislation through and that certain laws are involved. As the Attorney-General considers that 30th June gives reasonable time to get it through, let us complete this debate. I think it is only reasonable to bear with the AttorneyGeneral who is doing his job. I think it is proper to give him time to cover these laws. 
The  CHAIRMAN (Senator Prowse)The  question now is 'that the words proposed to be inserted be inserted'. 
 Mr President,  I stand here tonight a senator elected by the people of Western Australia for one express purpose - to convince this Government that it is high time that the death tax laws throughout Australia should be abolished or drastically revised because they are causing hardship, distress and humiliation to thousands of Australians, the majority of whom are women. I take this opportunity to thank all those who supported me and to say that I will continue with my self-appointed task until I am successful. I realise that this is a States house, a house of review, and I am deeply conscious of the honour and privilege of being on the floor of this chamber tonight. 
If anyone had told me 17 months ago that I would be standing here tonight making my maiden speech I would not have believed him. Nothing was further from my mind. At that time I was an ordinary Australian citizen recovering from ill health. While convalescing I endeavoured to set my affairs in order in a way that my  Wife  could understand so that she would know what to do if anything happened to me. That was the hardest job of work I ever tackled. We men are strange creatures. We spend all our lives working and striving for the security of our wives and families, and most of us will die happy that we achieved just that. But in actual fact we leave behind one great big muddle and an unsuspecting and unprotected bereaved widow faced with the task of straightening out that muddle. We do not think or realise during our lifetime that we should equip our wives with all the knowledge necessary to help them to wind up our estates. We protect them in every way possible while we are alive and then leave them to find out for themselves that they were left completely unprepared to try to straighten out their husband's affairs after his death. None of us ever thinks or realises that this will be necessary, and it should not be necessary. But it is, due only to the death tax laws. Without those Jaws everything would be fine and as we expect them to be. 
No man has the right to take from any person his true inheritance, especially if that person is a woman. Our womenfolk should be protected. Without them none of us would be here today. They deserve the best we can give them, both before and after our death. I personally am deeply ashamed to admit that it has taken me so long to realise that for many years the womenfolk of Australia have been humiliated and distressed in time of bereavement by these iniquitous death tax laws. I appeal to every man in this chamber and every man listening tonight to join forces with me and  help  me to remove forever that great injustice to our womenfolk. I intend to press this matter continuously until I achieve a satisfactory result for the people of Australia. I can and will produce, if necessary, thousands of letters sent to me from all over Australia setting out the experiences and sufferings of innumer able Australians caused by these death taxes. 
I realise of course that there are many other matters to which I must pay attention now that I have been elected to the Senate. I must show interest in these other matters and I intend to do so, but for the present my main concern is death taxes. I suppose I am the only man who has ever been elected to Parliament on one platform only and for that very reason I must, and will, concentrate on that platform. The sooner this matter is cleared up, the sooner I will be able to give my attention to other matters. The help and advice of every honourable senator is requested. In addition, I hope that all honourable senators will do all in their power to convince all members of the House of Representatives of the necessity for their co-operation on this matter. I know that the other day one honourable senator gave notice of motion for a committee of inquiry into probate taxes. I welcome that notice of motion. I sincerely trust that I will see every other honourable senator stand up and move such a motion or take action in some way to do something about death taxes. I hope that parliamentarians in every State Parliament will make similar moves. But 1 believe that it is up to the Senate to make the first move and so to lead the way. 
When I started this campaign I took my wife with me to the probate office in Perth and asked the officers there to give me a booklet or pamphlet which I would take home and, sitting down with my wife, examine and explain to her exactly what she would have to do in the event of my death. I was told that the only time they were the slightest bit interested in me or my wife was when one of us died, and that they had no such booklet. I was so disgusted that I made an appointment to see the probate commissioner in Perth. I asked him why such a booklet did not exist. He told me that for many years he had intended to do something about it - he had been in office for 15 years - but every time he got somewhere near doing something about it the Government changed the law or made an amendment to the probate legislation. While there I asked him whether he would give me a copy of the original probate law in Western Australia. Much to my amazement, he admitted that he had never even seen the law. He had seen all the amendments, but not the original law. 
As a result of my visit to that office, I am now very proud to show honourable senators this booklet, which I have in my hand and which I consider is the only one ever produced in Australia. I remind the Senate that death taxes have been in force, to my knowledge, for more than 75 years. Copies of this booklet can now be obtained from the Western Australian probate office on application, provided the office does not run out of copies. Not too many were printed. I wanted quite a few gross to distribute throughout Australia. But I do not think there is one produced anywhere in Australia other than in Western Australia. This is a booklet that a wife or husband can take home and sit down and see what it is necessary to do in the event of a death. I believe that this is most essential. T hope that the Government will not have to spend money on printing these booklets, because I hope and pray that death taxes will be abolished once and for all. 
After 1 asked the probate commissioner about the original law and he could not tell me about it, I did quite a bit of research. This was the first time I had ever looked into parliamentary libraries. I discovered that many years ago parliamentarians were pretty clued up gentlemen. I wish to quote some of the statements made by them before they voted to introduce probate into Western Australia. 1 believe that these statements apply to nearly every State and the Commonwealth. One said: 'lt is not desirable to levy a widow's estate, large or small, especially when it is barely sufficient to bring up a family'. Another said: 'It was not desirable for estates whose main value was land, and not money, to have to raise a mortgage to pay duties.' How many mortgages are being raised today to pay these duties? Yet another said: 'I do not think that a man who strives to make a few thousand pounds to leave to his wife and family should have to pay duty until his wife dies'. He was a very shrewd and sensible gentleman, because if a man did not have to pay death taxes until his wife died he would not have to pay them at all, as our women live longer than we do. That is one way in which they are stronger than we are. Statistics prove that the average woman lives 4 years or more longer than the average man. 
During my campaign I have often been asked why parliamentarians have not done something about these death taxes before. I spent many an hour thinking about this and wondering why. Finally I came to the decision that they had never done anything about death taxes because they themselves had never had to pay them; they were always 6 feet under the ground at that stage and had left their widows to pay the death taxes. I know that what I am doing is something that has to be done. I know that no man is worth his salt as long as this legislation remains in force, hurling our widows. Our women folk should be put on a pedestal. We should look up to them and do everything we can to help them. If the Government cannot find some way to get the money that is required into its coffers without having to take it from widows, I will be surprised. It is only a matter of giving the subject thought. It is only a matter of going into the subject. Many years ago a great statesman said: Surely there are better ways of getting money than by taking if from the people to whom it belongs'. I agree with him very sincerely. 
As honourable senators know, 1 started my campaign against these death taxes as a private citizen. I received thousands of letters. The most I received in any one morning's mail was 3,200 letters. That is some mail! Many of these letters told me facts that had been hidden from most of us for years. These facts had been hidden because the widows had been hurt so much that they did not want to expose them. But, because I promised not to use their names and addresses without their written permission, they told me how they had been hurt by these death taxes. Honourable senators should not think that these death taxes hurt only the rich. I have letters from pensioners. I have them from totally and permanently incapacitated pensioners. I have them from little people all over the country. Honourable senators should not forget that, if a pensioner has to pay $40 in probate duty, that represents more to him than $400 would represent to me. 
We have to look into this question very seriously. I address my remarks particularly to honourable senators on this side of the chamber because I have noticed that when a move on this matter has been made in the Senate previously on death taxes most of the support has come from the Government side of the chamber. I sincerely trust that by my speech tonight I will convince honourable senators on this side of the chamber that this is something that needs doing. I ask them to remember that none of them would be here but for a good woman, and that most of them will leave a widow who will have to pay death taxes. I have also found out  -  I do not want to go too far into this matter - that in this world there are many people who make a particular point of ensuring that they get their corner of an estate. That is a very serious statement to make. As I say, I do not want to go too deeply into this matter; but I can quote some cases and I believe that now is perhaps the time to quote them. 
In one case a widow in New South Wales wrote to me and asked for help.  Her  husband had died and left her a farming property with a mortgage on it. He had also left her with 14 children - 7 above and 7 below the age of 16 years. She did not have enough money to license her husband's vehicle. Everything was frozen on the death of her husband. She could not send her young children to school. She tried to teach them by correspondence lessons, until she received a letter from the New South Wales Government School Authorities saying: 'Where are your children?' She could not even get a letter to the Government because she did not have any means of getting out. Finally, in desperation she managed to fatten up enough of her cattle on the farm, which had been hit by drought for 2 successive years, to raise sufficient money to put a deposit on a house in Bathurst. I can give this woman's name. After she paid the deposit on the house the Government asked her to pay income tax on the amount she had raised to pay the deposit. She applied for a pension. That took a long time to be granted. She received the minimum rate. She was desperate. She wrote to me for help. Through my efforts, I am very pleased to say, the Government postponed the payment of the death duties during her lifetime. To make sure that they will get paid, the Government put a caveat on the farming property. That means that the widow cannot raise a loan by mortgaging the property. She asked me to try to get the caveat lifted. I wrote to the commissioner. He said: 'We will lift it provided that the first thing she does is to make payment of her death taxes'. That is only one case. I have helped that woman. 
Another woman in New South Wales wrote and asked me whether I would help her. 1 said: 'I will do what I can. Send me all particulars'. She sent me particulars. They were such that it seemed impossible for me to be able to help her. Previously I told her that when she approached her solicitors she may be told that  Mr Negus  should not have these particulars. I asked her to get copies of ail letters. Finally she wrote to me and said:  'Mr Negus,  probate was granted in November. I did go along to the solicitor to get these letters and things you asked for, and much against his will he gave them to me. He said: "What do you want these for? Probate has been granted". I said: "I want to send them to  Mr Negus  in Western Australia. He is conducting a campaign against probate duties". I came away. Before I had a chance to write a letter to you and to send the particulars to you by mail, I got a letter from the solicitor to say that for some unknown reason the probate commissioner bad reduced the probate by $631 and that the solicitors account of $442 was now considered to be paid.' I did not know what to think about that. She did not know what to think about that. I will leave honourable senators to think about that. 
In another case a Western Australian woman of 88 asked me to go to New South Wales to see whether I could hurry up the finalisation of her husband's estate because she was frightened of dying before it was completed. It had been going on for  2i  to 3 years. She had had 3 firms of solicitors on it. I went to Sydney on one of my visits. I approached these solicitors. I said: 'What is the bother?' They said: To tell you candidly,  Mr Negus,  we cannot get an account from the probate office'. I said: 'Good Lord. Surely that is easy enough to do'. Next morning I was on the doorstep of the probate office at half past 8. I went into the office of the probate commissioner - the Commissioner for Stamp Duties he is called in New South 
Wales - and asked him about it. He said: It will come through in due course.' I said: 'Yes, but this widow has been waiting for nearly 3 years now and the lawyers have prepaid $20,000 probate tax. Surely I should be able to get it while I am here'. He pressed a button and a chap came in with a file. He said: 'How long will it take to get this account out?' The chap said: 'It will not take long'. I said: 'I am here for 10 minutes. I am going back to Western Australia. Could J have it before I leave? It needs about 24 figures written on it and a signature'. He said: 'That is a rather unusual request,  Mr Negus,  but I will do that for you'. Finally the chap came back. I picked up the account and looked at it. I said: 'Would you sign it?' He said that he would sign it subject to check. I said: 'Fair enough. By the way, what is this $3,500 interest? You have just given me the account'. He said: 'In New South Wales we charge 8 per cent interest for any time over 6 months that the account is not paid'. I said: 'How in the blue blazes could it be paid? It has only just been issued. If you charge that much interest on this look out because I will make sure that something happens here. I know your powers. Please use them'. Within a short time I got information from the solicitors that the rate of interest had been reduced to exactly half- - from 8 per cent to 4 per cent. 
That is the kind of thing that I have been doing. I started this myself, I will admit. I have endeavoured to help these widows who have needed help very badly. If through my efforts they have received that help, I am very grateful. I say sincerely that I cannot continue to do this all the time, especially now that I am a senator. I do not think this should have to be done. I think it is most essential that we revise these laws so that widows are not affected by them. Persons who have not earned the right to the money - people who have received a windfall - should be taxed by all means. The people with plenty of money should be taxed. If they have the money they should be taxed. If they have only an estate and no money they should not be taxed. If they have the money let them pay a reasonable tax. The rate should not be as high as it is now. When the tax was first introduced in Western Australia it was said that in the case of an estate over £100,000, as it was then- $200,000 nowthe Government proposed to take a maximum of 10 per cent. On the same size estate today the rate is between 42 per cent and 50 per cent. 
When  Mr McMahon  was Treasurer I wrote to him. This was before I started my campaign. I asked him whether he could do something about it. 1 also wrote to the then State Premier,  Sir David  Brand. He said he would not move until he heard from the Federal Government. He marked time. The answer I got from the Federal Government was from  Mr McMahon's  secretary. He stated that in relation to Federal estate duty there was an exemption of $20,000, which shaded out by $2 for every $8 over that amount until it reached $100,000 when there was no exemption. I did not know that until then. 1 passed that information on to  Sir David  Brand. This was prior to the Senate election. I feel that as a result of my efforts  Sir David  Brand might have made a move to get votes away from me. He announced a one-fifth reduction in probate duty in Western Australia. I was very proud of that. The New South Wales Government made a move, through my efforts I feel, and reduced taxes there. 
This is not sufficient. We must keep going. We must do something about the situation. I have thought of several ways of improving the situation. I am sure many honourable senators and many people listening would be prepared to pay their death taxes, if they are retained, during their life. That is one way of improving the situation. I have checked this with the research staff in this House. They have confirmed my figures. If everyone was to pay 5.4 per cent - a little over $5 in every $100 of income tax that they paid per annum - there would be no need for death taxes. I would be prepared to do that if I knew that my wife would not have to pay death taxes when I died. I took out an insurance policy many years ago. I am sure that honourable senators and others did the same as I did. I took out an insurance policy to leave something behind to replace my wife's loss of her husband. It was to be a little windfall or a little method by which she could subsist. Today that is of no earthly use. I have had many people write to me and say:  'Mr Negus,  at present we are paying insurance premiums to such an extent that we cannot possibly afford to improve our properties. We can barely run them but we dare not stop paying the premiums'. I have had other gentlemen write to me and say:  'Mr Negus,  1 know I have not enough insurance, but for the last 10 years I have not been able to get a medical certificate to allow me to take out increased insurance'. Why should we have to take out insurance to cover us against death taxes? 
When probate duty was introduced in Western Australia one of the things that was said was that there would be an exemption on money received from life assurance. I agreed with that. I fell for it. Representatives of life assurance companies said to me: 'If you take out a policy on your wife's life and if she takes out one on your life there will be no tax to pay'. I started paying my premiums. When I went into this subject I ascertained that that was not right, lt is no good doing that because who do you think paid the premiums? I did. My wife has no income. As long as the man pays the premiums and the tax the amount on the insurance policy is added to the estate. Other men have thought that they would get out of it by forming companies. Their widows have found much to their sorrow that they were wrong. I have proof of this. Other gentlemen leave their wives an annuity of, say, $2,000 a year. The Probate Commissioner looks at the widow in each case and says: Well, Madam, you look like living for another 10 years. Ten times 2 is 20. That means $20,000 onto your husband's estate on which you pay death taxes.' That was a big enough shock. 1 asked the Probate Commissioner what would happen if she lived for 5 years. I asked whether she would get a rebate. He said only if someone applied for it. Of course, no-one would know about it. That kind of thing is wrong; it should not happen. We should not allow it to happen. 1 feel that it is up to the Senate as a States house and a house of review to take a look at these taxes. I know that when these taxes were first introduced they were considered to be all right. The taxes at that time were not hurting anyone. But now they are. I believe that the Senate, as a house of review, should take a second, solid look at these taxes and do something about them. Thank you very much,  Mr President. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Willesee)  adjourned. 
1 direct my question to the Minister for Health. Over I million gallons of raw sewage have poured into the rivers and sea around Sydney Harbour during the present strike by J 1.500 employees of the Metropolitan Water Sewerage and Drainage Board. This has created a definite health hazard to thousands of people in the Sydney area and it could cause a national disaster. I ask the Minister: ls it not time that the Federal Government created a national emergency team which would be trained to take over and work such plant as may be necessary so that the public will not be faced with such a crisis again? Will the Minister investigate this matter and take action immediately in conjunction with the States? 
The first part of the answer to the honourable senator's question is that, consequent upon an industrial dispute in Sydney, there is an industrial stoppage and, at the present time, raw sewage is being emptied into the sea. This is a matter within the responsibility of one of the statutory bodies of New South Wales, namely, the Metropolitan Water Sewerage and Drainage Board. Perhaps  Senator Negus  will not appreciate this suggestion as much as some other honourable senators who have been here for a longer period but the States would not countenance any interference in their sovereignty whether the interference might represent a plus or a minus. Clearly this matter is within the responsibility of the statutory authority which, in turn, is answerable to the New South Wales Government. I understand that the relevant New South Wales Minister,  Mr Beale,  has made some statements in relation to what may or may not be done. But this is an industrial matter. It is not one which comes within the province or the responsibility of the Commonwealth. Apart altogether from the industrial side of the matter, I think that any proposed intervention by the Commonwealth at this time could aggravate the situation rather than help it. 
I  address my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Services. During my campaign to abolish probate taxes  I  received many letters from pensioners asking me to request the Government to alter the laws to enable a pensioner to earn up to $15 or $20 a week if he so desired in order to augment his pension. Many thousands of pensioners are capable of taking a parttime job, suitable only for a pensioner, but if they do so and the authorities find out about it, their pensions are reduced.  I  had 2 pensioners working for me during my campaign, but they could earn only $3 and $4 respectively a week without affecting their pensions. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration aware that a considerable number of migrants are deliberately using our immigration policy to obtain a free trip to Australia and a holiday? Is he aware that among these people have been at times people of considerable means who are quite capable of paying their own fares? Is he aware that 28,244 of these migrants left in 1971 to return to their own countries. Will the Minister advise approximately what it costs per migrant to bring 28,244 migrants to Australia? Will his Department conduct an inquiry into this matter and, if possible, ensure that only genuine migrants are accepted in the future so that Australia will not be giving holidays to many people at considerable expense to the Government and the Australian people? 
I address my question to the Minister for Health. Is he aware of the high charges for dental treatment and is it possible for the Government to take action to reduce these charges? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI am not aware of what the honourable senator means specifically by 'high charges'. The statement 'high charges' is  a  very wide one. They are high charges in comparison with what? Are they high in comparison with  a  particular area or  a  particular State? In any event, I would think that the Commonwealth has no control over prices. We do not have the constitutional power for price fixing. In truth I would need the honourable senator to elaborate on his question and put it into more specific terms before I could give an informative answer. 
 I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That the Senate is of opinion that immediate action should be initiated by the Commonwealth Government, where necessary by negotiation with State governments, to bring about the abolition of all death duties insofar as they apply to a bereaved widow or widower and members of the immediate family, and also for the drastic revision and reduction of these taxes in other deserving cases. 
I ask the Minister representing the Treasurer: Is it a fact that many hundreds of widows are being forced to apply for pensions because most of their ready cash has been absorbed by death taxes? Does be consider that the Government should allow this state of affairs to continue? Is lt a fact that every year thousands of Australians spend millions of dollars in other countries, thereby reducing their savings to a minimum and so avoiding death taxes? Does the Government realise that because such people have reduced their savings they are then able to apply for and obtain a pension? Does the Government consider this situation to be in the best interests of the Australian economy? 
The honourable senator has asked a series of questions, some of which would be covered by the portfolio of Social Services and some of which would be covered by the portfolio of the Treasury. 1 have never heard it put that people go overseas to spend their money in order to avoid death duties. 1 have heard of people who allegedly have tended to dispose of some of their assets in order to place themselves within the framework of the Social Services Act. That is quite legitimate. The question covers a very wide area, and 1 do not think it lends itself to the giving of an answer at question time. I will refer the honourable senator's question to both the Treasurer and the Minister for Social Services. He may receive answers from both Ministers, to which he can respond. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Services, upon notice: 
Are many hundreds of widows forced to apply for a pension because most of their ready cash has been absorbed by death duties; if so, should the Government allow this situation to continue. 
Are thousands of Australian citizens spending millions of dollars overseas every year in order to reduce their savings to a minimum and thus avoid death duty. 
Do persons become eligible for pensions because they reduce their savings; if so, does the Government consider this reduction of savings to be in the best interests of the Australian economy. 
Being new to this place I am a little concerned about what  Senator Murphy  said just a while ago. I would be very disappointed if I felt that the Government was in any way adopting methods, such as suggested by  Senator Murphy,  to prevent me from talking on my subject of probate. I sincerely hope that what was done tonight by an honourable senator on this side of the chamber was not an attempt to prevent a motion relating to the Death Penalty Abolition Bill from going through. I felt that the debate was a good one and I had hoped that the vote on the second reading or third reading of the Bill would have been taken. I sincerely hope that what  Senator Murphy  said was not true. If it was true I am afraid that I might have a little more to say about it. 
I ask for leave to make a personal statement. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Why, in the Wool (Deficiency Payments) Bill 1971, is a section of wool growers, mainly in Western Australia, who sell under a respectable and condoned method - that is, private selling - discriminated against in the distribution of Commonwealth funds by having a subsidy paid on a lesser sum than is paid to those growers who sell at auction? Is it true that associated wool brokers will receive approximately $250,000 to alter their computers to adjust account sales to growers for the purpose of eliminating subsidy payment on excluded wools? 
1 thank  Senator Murphy  for his comments about the independent senators. I can recall  Senator Turnbull  speaking very strongly about this matter. I feel - and  Senator Turnbull  indicated this - that the independent senators get very little chance of talking on a subject unless the Opposition and the Government agree to their talking.  Senator Murphy  was quite correct in what he said. I request the Senate to consider the possibility of allowing independent senators who want to do so to talk to a motion or on a subject. There are really only 3 parties and a few independent senators in the Senate. I must support  Senator Murphy  and oppose the motion. 
Sitting suspended from 12.46 to 2.15 p.m. 
J address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science. It is asked in response to a request from a woman in Western Australia who says she is desperately in need of help. Has the Minister received appeals from the other States for additional financial help to enable them to increase in turn their educational assistance to outback areas? Will the Minister inquire into proposals submitted by the Isolated Children's Parents Association with the object of granting immediate allowances and concessions to the parents of children in the isolated areas of Western Australia and other States who are at present struggling to teach their children by correspondence lessons and need financial assistance? 
I address my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science. Is it a fact that the last 3 Ministers for Education and Science have stated that a local education authority is inevitable in the Australian Capital Territory? Docs the present Minister intend to establish such an authority? If so - and before doing so - will the Minister consider holding an immediate open and independent public inquiry to ensure that such an education authority is in accordance with the wishes of the residents of the Australian Capital Territory? 
I direct this question to the Minister representing the PostmasterGeneral. The telephone directory in Western Australia has this year been divided into city and country directories for the first time. Was this really necessary? Does the Minister know that city people are supplied with country directories only if they apply by letter giving reasons why the country directory is required? Does the Minister know that country directories are provided only if the reasons given in writing are acceptable to the superintendent of the telephone directory section? Is it not possible to provide business firms with all directories on each new issue? Why was the directory divided in the first place? Does the Minister know that the Western Australia directory was not over-large and that it could easily have accommodated all the Western Australia telephone numbers without being divided? 
 I have been a member of the Senate for only a short while. I hope that no honourable senator will misunderstand me when 1 express the opinion that we have ahead of us too many important matters to allow us to make a big issue of the motion put forward by the Australian Democratic Labor Party, obviously with good intentions, and with which I thoroughly agree. 1 do not see why it is necessary to amend the motion in any shape or form. I do not disagree with the claim of the Australian Labor Party that the benefits payable to people who have been hurt in wars are not sufficient, but there is a time for that matter to be discussed and 1 do not think it is now. In the past the Labor Party has sufficiently expressed its disapproval of the Vietnam war. Every member of this Parliament has a right to feel that way. but I honestly believe that there are more important issues for the Senate to discuss. We should not have a lengthy debate on this motion. 
I repeat that I thoroughly agree with the motion but we should not debate it at great length. We should have been able to conduct a quick and unanimous vote on the motion as we have many more important things to do. I have been waiting to talk to my motion already before the Senate butI have been told that the Government has more important matters to bring forward. It annoys me to sit here and listen to the remarks that have been made in this debate when I cannot get my motion before the Senate. 
Far more people have been hurt through the imposition of death taxes in Australia than have been killed in the war in Vietnam. Every year more people are hurt in Australia by the imposition of death taxes. Deaths on the roads are raising far greater problems now and the Vietnam war is as good as over for Australia. Why should we discuss these things time and time again when we have heard them so many times? 1 do not want to take up any more of the time of the Senate. We have more important issues to discuss. I thoroughly commend and agree with the motion moved by the Democratic Labor Party. 
 I had intended to speak in the earlier debate on the States Grant (Housing) Bill but 1 missed out. Therefore I would like to say a little of what I had in mind  but I do not want to digress from what I should be talking about in this debate. I listened very carefully to other honourable senators and I appreciate that what they have said is correct. As a matter of fact someone very close to me wanted to get the $500 grant and he thought that as long as he had $500 in the bank by the time he wanted the grant it would be all right. However he was advised by the bank that he had to have $500 which had not been touched and had not been drawn upon for a full period of 12 months, lt is very hard for a young couple to have $500 in the bank and not draw anything from it. They had to have that sum more or less as fixed deposit, which was very hard for them. Perhaps the Government could make some stipulation when it advances this money to the States. Perhaps it could increase the grant from $500 to $750. Perhaps it could stipulate that the interest charged when this money is loaned out is to be a certain amount. I do not know whether it can recommend, suggest or stipulate but the Government may be able to do something. 
Young couples of today do need help. 1 will give honourable senators an example of what is happening in Western Australia. Tracts of vacant land there are being sold to developers. According to Government regulation those developers must develop that land to a stage where it is ready for the construction of houses. This means that they must put in roads, water and sewerage facilities and anything else that is necessary for the houses. The developers do that and get a pat on the back for having done so at their expense. But they add those charges to what they originally paid for the land, and their profit, subdivide the blocks and sell them to young couples. In fact it is the young couples who are paying for putting down the roads, water and sewerage facilities. Then the Government has the check to charge them rates and taxes on what they already have paid for. 
When I was a young man people did nol pay rates and taxes until such time as they used the sewerage and water facilities. Now young couples are paying rates and taxes on services they perhaps cannot use for 10 years because it takes them nearly that long to pay off the block of land and thus obtain free title to build a house on it. The Government would bc taking a very good step if it made a grant to young couples of a certain amount for their block of land in order to give them a chance to get their heads above water. 
My recommendation to young  people  today is not to build a house or buy their own home. It takes them 30  or  40 years to pay for it and then the Government takes it from them by means of probate tux. I strongly suggest that they stick to renting homes because at present it is a hopeless proposition for a young couple to buy a home. They will never pay for it as long as they live. Because of the interest rates the amount they have to pay for a home is ridiculous. The high cost  of  houses is caused by nothing more  or  less than piece work, which the unions allow. Yet the unions  or  the tradesmen apply for more wages. Bricklayers in Western Australia 12 months ago were earning from  SI 50 to  $200 a week  when  their actual rate was about $65 or $70. They were able to do this because they were on piece work. I suppose that the only people in Western Australia who were on wages were the labourers, and you could get a building cleaned up at contract prices. That is  the  reason for the increase in the price of building. 1 am a building contractor am! I know what I am talking about. The price of houses in Australia today is absolutely ridiculous. This should not be so hut the young people of today have to pay. 
I recommend that the Government look very carefully at this matter and indicate to the States that they should apply this money in a certain way in an effort to help young people. As I said earlier, my advice to young people is: Do not own a home because you are tying a rope around  your  neck that you will never get rid of. When I first started building I could build a home on a block of land costing £40 and sell it, complete and ready to walk into, for £975 on £50 deposit, and T was damned pleased to get it. Now it is ridiculous. Young people will never pay for their homes as long as they live. They have to take a second mortgage. I am afraid that the situation is completely out of hand. T again ask the Government whether it will look very carefully at the situation before it hands this money to the States and whether it will try to make some stipulations in an endeavour to help the young people 
-Is the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration aware that during the recent building boom in Australia hundreds pf migrant tradesmen were brought into Australia, particularly Western Australia, to relieve the shortage prevalent at that time? Does the Minister acknowledge (hat the building, bonin is now over and that as a result many imported tradesmen are unemployed and receiving social service benefits? Does the Minister consider that the increasing numbers of unemployed in Australia warrant a very close look at our immigation policy, perhaps with the object of suspending all immigration until such time as the numbers of unemployed are considerably reduced? Has the Minister advised intending migrants of the job situation in Australia at this time? Is it considered that the present unemployment situation is due to a large extent to too many migrants too soon and that as a result our social service funds are being used to a large extent for migrants? 
I would like to point out that the Western Australian Government is in dire need of money for school construction. I would emphasise that it is most important that we ensure that all available money for education goes towards the construction of schools, particularly government schools because they are the main ones. They are the schools which the majority of children attend perhaps because their parents cannot afford to send them to one of the private schools. In Western Australia our classrooms are overcrowded. 
I admit that they would be, but the primary reason for the setting up of independent schools was that the schools felt they might be able to make something out of it. The government schools make nothing out of it and are there for the children of parents who cannot afford to send them to private schools. 
I cannot answer that question. All I can say is that at the present time it is my opinion that this money should be put towards the construction of schools. If I have read the purposes of the Bill correctly, it is. to provide an amount of money for secondary school libraries over 3 years. I consider that libraries are secondary to schools. First of all we must have schools to accommodate the children; 
-I have a pretty fair idea. 
I have a pretty fair idea of how the whole education system works. The majority of children who come out of schools today cannot spell. How they can use a library I would not know. If the Government has this money to spare it should direct it firstly towards the construction of schools, with preference to the construction of government schools. I feel that the ALP is on to a fairly good point. I do not agree entirely with it; 1 would be very sorry to think that no money would be provided under the Bill as a result of the amendment being carried. 
I am not interestd in its policy. I am interested in my policy. 
I am referring particularly to the first part of the amendment, which states: 
the primary obligation of governments to provide and maintain government school systems of the highest standard open to all children; 
That is the part in which I am most interested. I refer now to the fourth part of the amendment, which states: 
the need to ensure optimum use of resources in the establishment, maintenance and extension of schools. 
I think the part which readsmaintenance and extension of schools' should read maintenance and extension of government schools'. 
I think it may be. My point is that if the Government has this money to spare I would prefer to see the children of Australia accommodated in schools so that they can be educated. I would like to see that before the Government allocates this money for libraries. At this stage I am a little uncertain whether I should support the Bill because, if it is passed, the money will go towards helping schools in any case, or whether 1 should support the amendment because I feel that the Australian Labor Party is on the right track. 
No, 1 am not opposed to any financial aid, but I do feel that the first preference should be to the govern men I -opera led schools. 
1 believe in that right. I also believe that if parents select a private school it is probably because they can afford lo send their children to that private school. I have listened carefully to what has been said. I feel that the Government should re-examine the situation and see whether it is doing the right thing by advancing the money for libraries in preference to schools. I am doubtful whether I will support the Bill or the amendment. I do feel at this stage that the Labor Party is on the right track. 
Yesterday I asked a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration about the possibility of stopping migration until the unemployment situation in Australia eased. I particularly mentioned that the building boom in Western Australia was over. To support my suggestion I now ask the 
Minister whether he knows that the building trade unions in the West are now pressing for the introduction of the 40- hour week and the banning of all overtime. I again ask the Minister whether he does not think that all migration should be suspended immediately because the 30 per cent reduction to which he referred yesterday will still mean that 94,102 assisted migrants will enter Australia in 1972. 
Does the Minister representing the Treasurer know that, if the gold mines in Western Australia are forced to close through lack of subsidy, possibly 2,000 men will become unemployed? Does he realise that, if this happens, many of them will have to apply for unemployment relief? Is it not better to subsidise the gold mining industry in Western Australia and keep the men employed than to have to pay out social service funds? Does he realise that 2,000 men and their families on unemployment relief will cost approximately $2,500,000 a year and that all that is required to keep the gold mining industry alive is for the Government to contribute approximately$3m by raising the subsidy paid on gold from $8 per oz to $12 per oz? 
1 wonder when the Government proposed the expenditure for the Department of Immigration whether it really looked into the matter seriously or whether it looked at last year's figures, increased them a little, and put them down for this year. I wish ali honourable senators to understand that I am not against migration in any way. I agree with migration at the right time and in the right place. At this moment I feel that Australia's migration policy is too big for Australia to handle. We should reduce it accordingly. Migration produces a number of situations which strain the resources of this country. I consider that charity begins at home. I think that we should look after our own before we add to our burden financially by bringing in loo many migrants. In 1970-71 it cost in the vicinity of S70m to bring migrants to Australia. When they arrived here we had to expend money on over 300 teachers to teach them. I read in the Press and hear that in my State of Western Australia particularly we are terribly short of teachers. We do not have enough for our own people. Yet 3.10 teachers are being applied to the job of teaching migrants, many of .whom cannot speak English when they get here. I have been on migrant ships, f have seen for myself that some migrants are very interested in trying to learn English from a book on the ship on the way out from  i  heir own country. They can probably say good day and goodbye when they get here. Otherwise they cannot speak English. They could not speak Australian if they tried because it is different to English, lt cost, this country money to bring migrants out here but last year 28,200 of them went back to their own country. On my figures - and they could be wrong - this cost us $17m. Every year that migrants leave this country to go back to their own it costs us $17m. On top of that situation there are the migrants who come out here, start a successful business, spend 12 to 14 years here and then leave Australia and go back to their own country loaded with Australian money. 
According to the figures which I received from the Legislative Research Service of the Parliamentary Library each migrant costs us $454.94 to land in Australia. I multiplied that amount by 28,200 migrants. 
No, I have not done that. Also, I have not worked out how much they take from us in social service benefits if they cannot obtain a job. It must be remembered that not every migrant has a job. 1 have houses in Western Australia. I have had migrants in these houses who were promised a job in Australia when they left their own country. They have come to me because I happened to be the landlord and said: 'Get me a job. I was promised one by the Australian Government.' If the Australian Government had told these people that there is work for them and when they get here they cannot obtain work then we are doing the wrong thing by the migrants and by this country. Yesterday the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Greenwood)  who in this chamber represents the Minister for Immigration  (Dr Forbes)  said that the Government is cutting down the migration programme by 30 per cent. I feel that that policy is back to front. The Government should have allowed the migrant programme to be only 30 per cent of what it was last year. It should have cut the programme by 70 per cent. 
I think an honourable senator said in this chamber this morning that university students cannot obtain part time work to help them through their studies and that children who have come out of the secondary schools cannot obtain work. I ask: Why is this? It  is  because we have too many people trying to obtain work. Perhaps I agree with the Government that  it  might be necessary to ' have a certain amount of unemployment. But how much can we carry? 
 I know the Government has not said that, but If have a feeling that that is what it is implying. When the migrants arrive here they have to have homes. In Western Australia 2i to 3 years ago people were squealing for more homes because there were not sufficient to accommodate the population. All the builders who could build and all the builders who could not build went mad. They started estate agencies and other businesses. People built and built homes and flats until now' Western Australia is full of vacant fiats and homes. 
 If we bring out more migrants so that they can fill the homes we will have to pay them social services. I feel that perhaps the Government has allocated this money to migration from the previous year's figures without looking carefully to see whether it should cut the programme by more than 30 per cent, the figure to which it has agreed.  At  this stage I do not believe that we can afford S70m. Of this amount we are going to lose S17m every year because of those who go back to their homes. I would prefer to see that $17m spent on Australian citizens - those who really need it. 
I did .not say that I support the motion because I agree with some of the previous speakers that perhaps committees can become a little overburdened with work. At this stage we do not have sufficient members of the Senate to man all the committees we need. The Government and its Ministers should be quite capable of looking at immigration in the correct light and of producing the right result for the Australian people. 
I am an ordinary Australian and I do not profess to be an expert on immigration but I feel this is like buying tyres for a motor car before you have a car. Firstly, we have to look after our own people. Perhaps we should adopt an immigration policy somewhat similar to that which the United States has had for some years. I tried to migrate to America and I was sent all kinds of forms to complete. I had to find someone in America who would ensure that I would not become a burden on the United States for the first 12 or 18 months. If we want migrants - and 1 agree that perhaps we want some at this time - we should insist on having those who will come to Australia at their own expense and not be a burden on the Australian people. I think that too many migrants are becoming a burden on Australia and it is wrong for the Australian people to have to carry them. Perhaps I could go further and say that some of the migrants who have come here are working their way into positions in the unions and are causing trouble in Australia, but T do not want to go into that subject. 
 Senator Mulvihill  should listen to and watch television, as 1 do. What I am trying to impact is that the Government should look very carefully at its migration policy and decide whether Australia should spend this much money on immigration at this stage. From the point of view of Western Australia I do not think we can afford to have any more coming there to go on social services 

 - Mr President, I have rephrased my question. 
Does the Minister representing the Treasurer know that Canada has passed legislation to abolish federal estate taxes and gift duties as from 1st January 1972? Will the Minister endeavour to have similar legislation passed in Australia at an early date? 
The answer to the first question is no. The answer to the second question is no. 
 I address a question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. As it is obvious thatI shall not receive time this session to bring forward my motion to abolish death taxes, I consider it necessary to expose portion of the evidence held by me, namely, that Canada has passed legislation - 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Why has the telephone directory in Western Australia been divided into separate metropolitan and country issues. 
Are country, directories supplied to metropolitan telephone subscribers only upon application stating reasons which are acceptable to the Post Office. 
Will the Postmaster-General review the position in order to ensure that business firms receive all directories in each new issue. 
asked the Minister  representing the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
Have the last 3 Ministers for Education and Science stated that a local education authority for the Australian Capital Territory is inevitable and does the Minister intend to establish such an authority? 
Will the Minister consider an immediate public and independent inquiry to ascertain if such an authority is in accord with the wishes of the residents of the Australian Capital Territory? 
 I ask for leave to make  a  statement. 
 Mr President,  I am only one of the independents. I have no party. But. I am a member of this Senate. I was elected by the people to the Senate for a specific purpose. I have been endeavouring since September last to talk on this point. It is obvious to me that if things keep going as they are, another election will be held before I get the chance to talk on my motion on this subject. I do not think that this is right.I do not think that is democratic. 
The position of 'Notices of motion' under the heading 'General Business' on the Notice Paper indicates that it is obvious that we may never get the chance to talk on matters listed under that heading. Surely when the Senate obviously has no urgent business before it, the Leader of the Government  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson),  if he has the control of these things, should make a decision to bring 'General Business' forward so that those motions that already appear in the Notice Paper under 'General Business' may be discussed in the order in which they appear instead of allowing these other matters to come on before them. 
I listened to the discussion this afternoon and this evening on the urgency motion moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy).  Although that proposal has its advantages and disadvantages,I do believe that the subject of the motion standing in my name under General Business', which was put before the Senate with honesty and sincerity, affects more people than does an earthquake, a flood or anything of that nature. Many thousands of people in Australia are being hurt by death duties. I ask the Leader of the Government, the Leader of the Opposition and  Senator Gair  please to consider the independents in the Senate. 
 I beg your pardon,  Mr President? 
Motion withdrawn. 
 I direct a question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. 1 preface it by saying that the Treasurer has indicated that a high level expert body will be set up to conduct a full scale public inquiry into the taxation system, encompassing all personal, company and indirect taxes. I ask: Will the inquiry include a full scale investigation of federal estate taxes and gift duties and their disastrous effects on the community and while that expert body is in existence will the Government offer the services of that expert body to the various State governments with the object of it inquiring into their probate and succession duties and the disastrous effects of those duties on the community? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONlt is true that the Treasurer made a statement on this matter on Tuesday evening and that I made a similar statement yesterday. It is true that the Parliament has passed a Bill that seeks to give effect to a part of that statement in relation to income tax. It is true that an inquiry is to be set up in relation to the generality of the taxation law. It is equally true that a statement will be made subsequently in which the whole gamut of the inquiry will be put down and the Parliament informed of it. I think it would be unwise of me now to reflect in the way that I have been invited to do so on a statement that will be made in due course by the Treasurer. It is for that reason that I would prefer to take the question on notice. When the full details are put down and publicised, I will be in a position to respond to the honourable senator's question. We all know the honourable senator's forte is in relation to death duty problems. I feel that it would be better to wait until I have obtained a detailed reply to the whole of the honourable senator's question instead of now replying to it in part. 
I preface my question to the Minister representing the Postmaster-General by stating that in the 1970 Budget debate the Postmaster-General said that the Commonwealth would become progressively responsible for the maintenance of new and existing telephone services within a 15-mile radius of all rural telephone exchanges. In Beverley, Western Australia, there are 7 subscribers on a 9- mile run which, incidentally, was erected by them at their own expense. Two of these subscribers are bush fire control officers who have been told by the Postmaster-General's Department in that district - 
 I wish to thank the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  and the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  for giving me the opportunity to speak at this time. I wish to relate briefly to honourable senators the history of death taxes in this country. The last time that any change of consequence occurred in this area was in December 1941 when the level to which exemption from estate taxes would apply was set at $20,000. Many years have passed since that level of exemption was set but this Parliament has not acted to raise it. In 1941 I purchased my home and the land on which it stands for £875, or $1,750 in decimal currency. At that time exemption from death taxes was granted to estates up to a value of $20,000. Today the value of my home has increased approximately 9 times to $18,000. Today people must pay death taxes on estates exceeding the level of exemption set in 1941, without any allowance at all being made for the effects of inflation in the interim. As a result the people of Australia are put to great trouble and in some cases humiliation. 
I ask that the Senate do all in its power to raise the level of exemption from federal death taxes. After all, we have been elected to look after the interests of the Australian people. Not only should we act to improve the situation in the field of death taxes but perhaps we should also apologise to the people for not having acted on it before. Many thousands of people have been hurt because the level of exemption from death taxes has remained at so low a level for so long. It is a shameful thing. 
I realise that the DLP moved an amendment a long time ago, but I have been here since last August and in that time I have been the only senator to speak on death taxes. 
If  Senator Gair  would like to get up and speak on this subject I will give him a quiet hearing. A Senate Standing Committee which was appointed by this House is looking into the payment of death taxes. I sincerely trust that when its report is presented to the Senate we will do our utmost to ensure that its recommendations are adopted and action is taken by the other House, where any changes must be initiated. It is obvious to me and to anybody else who has looked into this question as deeply as I have that special provisions should be made in respect of death taxes for a husband and wife who have lived as partners. Death taxes should not be payable by a surviving partner. It is obvious to any normal, sensible person that a husband and wife are partners. 
On a recent visit to Canada and the United States of America I discovered - perhaps many honourable senators know already - that in the United States, of America the level of exemption from estate taxes on an estate which was shared by a husband and wife is set at $100,000. On estates valued at more than that amount tax is payable on the balance at the rate of only 1 per cent. In addition, half of the personal estate of a deceased husband passes tax free to his widow. In Australia the level of exemption from death taxes is set at $20,000 federally and ranges from $12,000 to $30,000 in the States. However, even that part of the estate which is exempt from death taxes cannot be obtained by the beneficiary for quite some time. It is necessary to wait until the authorities will release it. This is a shameful practice which causes humiliation and distress to people at a time of bereavement. It is a known fact, not only to honourable senators I am sure but to everyone, that an estate is frozen on death. Very little of that estate can. be used by the surviving spouse unless it is released by the department concerned. . The valuations of properties, and shares are taken as at the date of death. That is a ridiculous situation. 
I know of a woman in Western Australia whose husband died and left her an estate which on paper has been submitted at $2. 4m. In distress that widow rang me. She had applied for a social services pension and her application had been granted. She is receiving the pension, although her husband was a millionaire. X asked her to bring her papers to me and I have them with me now. I am prepared to table them if that is the wish of the Senate. They are here and available. I have the widow's permission to table them in the Senate. In that estate were 21,000 odd. Poseidon shares which at the date of the husband's death were valued at $90 a share. On the day the widow came to see me they were valued at $13.20 a share. But the Government insists that death taxes be paid on the valuation as at the date of death. The widow, to use her own words, said: T will be $500,000 in debt if I have to pay the death taxes and the other beneficiaries in my husband's will'. It is a ridiculous situation. I looked into the matter very carefully. I perused the paper on the day that she came to see me and I decreased the estate to about $666,000 in actual value. Her husband had been dead only about 12 months. 
Governments- State and Federal - value a person's estate as at the date of death, and the taxes are charged on that valuation. I feel that the governments should assess the death taxes at that time at a certain amount so that the beneficiaries can endeavour to raise those taxes. The death taxes should be adjusted to the value of the estate on the date on which the departments submit the account, for payment. 
If the value of the estate increases the estate will not suffer at all. 
It will not. 1 think the executors can decide that matter and it should be left to them. For the information of the honourable senator, the governments - both Federal and Stale - have the right to increase death taxes, even if they have been paid, if the person obtains a higher valuation than the Department put on the properties or the shares. I have written to departments and asked them what would happen if a person could not obtain the amount at which the departments had valued the shares or the property. I was told that the person could always apply for a revaluation. I asked whether that person would get a revaluation and receive a refund and the answer was: 'No comment'. I have not heard of a case in which anyone has received a refund of death taxes after they have been paid. I feel that the valuing of property or shares as at the date of death is a very unfair method of valuing an estate. 
It should be valued at the date of death so that the approximate amount of death taxes would be known, but only on the issue of the account by the department should the value be put. As honourable senators will know, it can take up to 6 years before an account can be issued, because of court cases. The finalisation of an estate can take a long time and things can change. It is impossible for a person to raise the amount of death taxes which the governments of the day put on a deceased's property. 
I feel very sincerely about the matter. It is most important that the Senate consider releasing a husband and wife, for their life time, from having to pay death taxes. I think too that dependent children should be released from having to pay death taxes on an estate. I feel that people outside those categories would not object to paying death taxes, although I know, from correspondence with many people, that sisters and brothers, dependent sons or daughters, or non-dependent sons or daughters have made it their life's work to help the father and mother build up a property knowing that on the death of the father and mother, or either, the property will be left to them and they will be reimbursed for their work. Recently while travelling on an aircraft from Queensland I met a friend and colleague of  Senator Gair's.  That man will provide me with information which he considers will open everyone's eyes. He has been appointed to rather important positions on various committees. He told me of a father and mother who incorporated a company in which their 2 sons were shareholders. The 2 sons have lost everything through having to pay death taxes. 
I am afraid that there will be rather a surprise coming for members of the Opposition - it may have come already - who, I believe, have been opposed to abolishing or altering death taxes because they feel that the taxes hit only the rich. Recent advice and information presented to the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations proved that in many instances what has been called tax avoidance has been practised very successfully. Large estates are avoiding taxes. If the Commonwealth Government will not take action in the Senate or in the other place I will request the Government to issue a booklet telling all Australians, not just those who can afford to pay, how to practise tax avoidance. If everybody practised tax avoidance we would not have death taxes because no-one would retain large amounts. If it is good enough for tax avoidance to be legal for those who can afford to carry it out, it is good enough for everyone to be able to practise tax avoidance. 
We should be ashamed that we have had death taxes in Australia, without alteration, for so many years. I know that at times we get snowed under with work, but that is no reason why this Government or any government - there have been a number of governments in power since 1941 - should have allowed the non-taxable amount to remain al the same figure from 1941 to 1972 - 31 years without change. It is shameful to think that this has continued. I feel that the move to give the States the opportunity to lift the amount below which death duties are not payable to a reasonable and just figure must come from the Federal Government. If necessary - and possibly it will be most necessary - the Commonwealth must reimburse the States for the revenue that they will lose by lifting that level. 
I have with me now some figures which have been checked by the Research Service of the Parliamentary Library. I am advised that, if the value of an estate below which no duty is levied was increased to $50,000, the cost would be only $33.4m per year. 
That figure of $33.4m covers both Commonwealth and State duties. If the level were lifted to a more equitable figure of $100,000, we could probably double that figure to give a total cost of $66m or $67m. If the level were lifted to $50,000 and the Federal Government were to reimburse the States so that they would not lose the revenue that they require, all the Commonwealth Government would need to find would be $33.4m at this time. 
It is necessary for us to give urgent attention to this matter. If honourable senators look at the newspapers they will know that every day that goes by people die. This means that other people will be affected by these death taxes. 1 said a little while ago that perhaps the Opposition was against my proposal because it did nol think that these duties affected the small people. But I have information from people all over Australia which shows that these death duties seriously affect them. That this situation continues is shameful. 
The administration of death duties being what it is today, with the freezing of the assets of estates, insurance companies do not even pay out insurance. A widow who thought that she might have her husband's insurance to live on finds that she is in trouble. One widow from whom I received a letter yesterday said that she had a home worth $15,000 or $16,000 and, additionally. $4,000 in cash. That was all she had left to her. As a result of death duties, both Federal and State, and solicitors' fees, etc., the $4,000 has been reduced to $2,000 and she has applied for a social services pension. It is ridiculous to think that on one hand we, take a bulk sum from these people and, on the other hand, give them back so much per week in social service payments. Once again, I thank the Leader of the Government and the Leader of the Opposition - perhaps thanks are due also to the Leader of the Australian Democratic Labor Party,  Senator Gair  - for the opportunity to raise this matter. I feel that 1 have spoken long enough. I sincerely hope that the Senate will work on this matter as an urgent one. 
Yes, I would like to speak in this debate and to say something which is sweet and straight to the point. I have not been a member of the Senate for very long but I have not heard so many interjections going on during a reasonable and fair debate. It is disgusting to me that Opposition senators should make a point of interjecting. I am an independent senator. I think that the first thing honourable senators should do is to give another honourable senator a decent hearing while he is making a speech. Even though I am a Western Australian I consider that if an amount of money is to be granted to the Queensland Government it is because that Government needs it. I believe we can rest assured that the present Commonwealth Government has looked into this matter very carefully. I strongly support the grant of this money to the Queensland Government. I sincerely trust that honourable senators will cut out the shenanigans and get down to some decent business. 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Is the Minister aware that some widows are paying death taxes on expected income tax refunds which have been classified as assets of the estates of their deceased husbands? Is he aware that these income tax refunds often are delayed because they are refunds on a deceased person's estate and that such delays cause hardship to widows? Will the Minister endeavour to speed up the payment of these tax refunds? 
I am sure that we ali appreciate the persistent approach of the honourable senator in relation to the issue of probate. I am not aware of the details that he gives in his question. I will see that his question is referred to the Treasurer as the matter of tax refunds is absolutely integral to it. 
Does the Minister representing the Minister for trade and Industry know that Renold Australia Pty Ltd of Benalla, Victoria has reduced its staff by 80 over the last 12 months because of inroads of cheap imports of chains similar to those which it manufactures? Is he aware that unless urgent action is taken this industry may have to shut down within a few months, so causing unemployment and the loss of an industry which has been established since 1949? Will he endeavour to apply quantitative import restrictions on transmission chain up to 1 inch and so save this Australian industry? Will he treat this matter as urgent? 
I feel obliged to speak on this matter because I approached the Acting Leader of the Government in the Senate and requested that he endeavour to have the Senate sit tomorrow and on Saturday if he thought that we could get through the business. My objective was to save the people about $12,000 or $14,000 in fares. If the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill is so important, we should not rush it. We should go through and complete all the other Bills. I was influenced in my request by the fact that we are all here. If honourable senators opposite think that they can influence the Queensland election by going there tomorrow, one day before the election is held, they amaze me. Personally, I find that most honourable senators do not do very much on Fridays and Mondays because we are travelling home or coming back here. My request was. an endeavour to avoid the possibility of our using a lot of the people's finances by travelling back to Perth unnecessarily. I feel that we could get through the business if we sat on Friday or Saturday and I therefore support the motion. 
 As an Independent I feel that without too much more comment or debate from anywhere in the Committee the final decision on this matter virtually is known now. We are just wasting time unnecessarily on this clause because the decision will be known if the Committee divides. 
J direct a question to the Minister representing the PostmasterGeneral. Does the Minister know that there is a memorial to the Desert Mounted Corps erected on Mount Clarence at Albany, Western Australia? Does he know that this memorial was transferred from overseas piece by piece, at great expense, and erected by public request at ils present location? Does he know that the Postmaster-General's Department plans to build a television translator station on Mount Clarence that will overshadow the existing war memorial? Will the Minister examine the possibility of relocating this translator station to another position? 
We have now spent H hours in getting to this stage and we 'have quite a few Bills to deal with, t make the suggestion that questions without 'notice and petitions be excluded from any future day of sitting so that we can proceed with the Bills in hand at this time. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Will the expert body to be set up to conduct a full-scale public inquiry into the taxation system (a) include in its inquiry all aspects of Federal Estate and Gift Duties and their effect on the community, and (b) be available to assist the various State Governments with inquiries into Probate and Succession Duties and their effect on the community. 

 Senator COTTON - The Acting Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The terms of reference of the Committee of Enquiry into the overall operation of the Commonwealth taxation system, announced on 18th May 1972, are such as to embrace the matter referred in part (a) of the honourable senator's question. The Committee's powers do not, however, extend to its undertaking the kind of activity referred to in part (b) of the question. 
 I might be out of order, but I am opposed to both of the proposed warnings because during my campaign on death taxes I found that the shorter the wording put on the screen, the better the impact. 
I would suggest that on the screen appear the warning "cigarette smoking is dangerous to health' or, alternatively, 'If you want to die smoke cigarettes' and nothing else. I am in an unusual position because many years ago I had a very dangerous medical condition and I was told by my doctor, who was a specialist on the subject, to smoke because it would help my condition. When my wife was alive she told me many times that she had seen films of what smoking does to people's lungs. I also know that people can smoke without doing the drawback and this would not affect their lungs. I know that in the past many other things have been blamed for causing cancer. I think the first thing to be blamed was canned food but now we all eat canned food as though there is nothing wrong with it. But I really feel - if I had time I would move an amendment - that the warning should not contain any reference to health authorities and that if the simple statement Cigarette smoking is dangerous to health' appeared on the screen then people would have time to read it. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Is the Treasurer aware that some widows are paying death taxes on expected income tax refunds which have been set down as assets of their deceased husband's estate. 
Are these refunds often delayed because they are refunds on a deceased person's estate and does this delay cause hardship to widows; if so, will the Treasurer endeavour to expedite these tax refunds. 

 Senator COTTON- The Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Income tax refunds due to the estates of deceased persons and arising from tax or provisional lax payments or tax instalment deductions made prior to the date of death are liable to estate duty to the same extent as other assets of estates. 
Every effort is made by the Commonwealth Taxation Office to finalise as quickly as possible a deceased person's income tax affairs. Special arrangements are made to accelerate issue of refund cheques where it is known that hardship exists. 
I commend  Senator Bonner  on his pretty complete coverage of the Budget. Although he might have read part of his speech from written notes, it is a pity that more honourable senators did not do that. If they did, it might cut out some of the repetition that we get continually in the Senate. I also commend  Senator Gair  on his speech on the Budget. Obviously, it was made under difficulties. 
 Mr Acting Deputy President,  I suggest that you give the floor to someone else. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Withers)  - Order!  Senator Negus  has the floor. I suggest that he ignore the interruptions. 
One of the first things that I was taught was to give a person making a speech a quiet hearing. I ask members of the Australian Labor Party to shut up. I take this opportunity to reply to the mention of my activities in Queensland which was made by  Senator Keeffe  of the Labor Party, who endeavoured to throw mud in my direction because I addressed a number of meetings in Queensland, on request. If  Senator Keeffe  and some of his colleagues paid attention to how the people of Australia are affected by death taxes, they might be able to address meetings on death taxes in Queensland or in other States, on request.  Senator Keeffe  mentioned a particular organisation in Queensland. I have not addressed a meeting of that organisation, but that does not mean to say thatI would not do so if I were asked. If there are in that organisation widows who are affected by death taxes, I would be proud to address them. 
 Senator Keeffe  mentioned the League of Rights. To my knowledge, I have not addressed a meeting of that organisation; but there is nothing to stop any members of organisations that I have addressed from being members of the League of Rights. I am neglecting my State, where I should be addressing meetings, because I have been requested to address meetings in so many other States on death taxes. I am proud of that fact. It is obvious that as a result of my campaign even the Federal Government finally has woken up. I sincerely trust that the Labor Party will wake up too. Some of these organisations in Queensland have written to various members of Parliament. I can state publicly that each member who has been against any reduction in death taxes has been a member of the Australian Labor Party. 
Does  Senator McAuliffe  want the floor? 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT  - Order!  Senator Negus  has the floor. 
The Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  in his Budget Speech said: 
It is clear that estate duty is now falling too heavily on modest estates. 
In my opinion, the Federal Government has made that statement between 9 and 15 years too late. 
I think I should put my shoulder out for the honourable senator to pat because I think I had something to do with it. In 1940 the exemption level was set at $4,000 for widows and widowers, when houses were valued at $3,500. In 1950 the exemption level was set at $10,000, when houses were valued at $5,000. In both those cases widows or widowers could have some money left in their pockets. In 1963 the exemption level was set at $20,000; when houses were valued at $15,000. Widows and widowers could have about $5,000 in cash at that stage. In 1965 the exemption level was $20,000, when houses were valued at $25,000. Obviously the Federal Government should get down on its hands and knees and apologise to the people from whom it has taken death taxes because it has not revised the exemption levels. They have not kept pace with the increases in valuations of houses. The present terrific move by the Federal Government, although 9 to 15 years too late, is in my opinion only one-fifth of what it should be. The amounts have increased from $20,000 to $40,000 for a widow and dependent children before tax is charged. But I state that that amount should be not a cent less than $100,000 at that time. It is a shocking state of affairs that members of the Parliament - I refer not only to members of the present Government - have let this position go on for so many years without doing what they should have done about it a long time ago. They should have increased the exemptions and abolished death duties where they apply to husband, wife and dependent children. I say 'abolished' because I believe that no government has the right to allow charities to get a large portion of an estate without paying tax when the widow and dependent children are hit by that tax. Do not tell me that a charity has more right to get any part of a husband's estate in preference to a widow or dependent children. 1 consider that the Government did not give sincere thought to the matter of exemptions. My understanding of the Budget proposal is that all statutory exemptions are to be doubled. What right has the Government to lift statutory exemptions for a stranger in blood? Should not the Government first give to widows and children the benefit of any exemption that might go to those strangers in blood? ( do not care if strangers in blood are hit by death taxes all the time. The Government should not give them an exemption or increase an exemption and not give it to the widows and children. Incidentally, I mention that I do appreciate this increased exemption. It has been the first good move for many years and it is only a start. The Government has said that it will cost it about $19m in a full year. That is terrific! I think that the Government should have increased it sufficiently to cost $7 Om in a full year if necessary. If the Government wants to impose the tax on anyone, it should impose it on charities and strangers in blood, not the members of families. 
I wish to refer now to gift duties, lt is amazing that the Government has finally decided to lift the amount that can be given without tax in a 3-year period from $4,000 to $10,000. We are 20 years behind the United States of America and probably 50 years behind Canada. In the United States of America a person can give any number of donees $3,000 in any period of 12 months without involving gift tax of any kind. 1 believe that the Government in the United States has done that because lt feels that if a man gives people money during his lifetime, especially to members of his family, they use that money to create employment, perhaps for a deposit on a home or some such purpose. I contrast this to the position in Australia at the present time where, because of the low exemptions before tax, most people of my age, if they have any money, stash it away and do not give it to anyone. This is absolutely ridiculous. I consider that if we keep the money going around in the country we are creating employment. Canada has seen fit to abolish gift duties and estate tax entirely. 
I am proud to say that Western Australia has moved on to lift the exemption again for a second time. The first time was the day before the Federal Senate elections. Queensland has made a move as have New South Wales and South Australia. So I am very proud to say that my campaign is having its effect throughout Australia. I sincerely trust that the Australian Labor Party will take note of the fact that these taxes are, on the admission of the Government's own experts and experts who have appeared before the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations, affecting the low to middle income group. One of the first organisations I was asked to address in Western Australia was an organisation of pensioners. Honourable senators on the opposition side of the Senate are all the time saying that death taxes affect only the rich. If they care to look at the evidence presented to the Senate Standing Committee at public meetings they will see it has been proved that the rich are practising tax avoidance and the low to middle income group is being hit the hardest. It is time the Government woke up and realised that when a motion for the abolition of death tax as between husband and wife is presented to the Senate there should be a unanimous vote for it. 
With the help of you gentlemen I may be able to get it through. 1 have before me a document from an accountant in New South Wales. Incidentally, I was asked to address a meeting in Newcastle which, I believe, is a Labor Party stronghold. The hall was overcrowded with only standing room left. The people were 6 abreast coming up the hall. I have very strong support in that district. This accountant has stated that if the Government continues these death taxes all it is doing is reducing its own income. The document proves that by imposing death duties on properties or partnerships the Government reduces the amount of income tax the persons concerned will pay because the business is so far reduced. I do not intend to speak for long tonight. I just wanted to speak on death duties in the way I have done at about 100 meetings throughout Australia. I will continue to do so because I have adopted the whole of Australia as my constituency. If the people want to hear me, I will go to them. The people of Western Australia did their job when they elected me at my first attempt to become an independent senator. This Parliament would be far better off with more independent senators. A short while ago I drew attention to the state of the House. It has been brought to my attention that 12 honourable senators are away ill. I apologise for having done that. 
I wish to refer to a few parts of the Budget and, in particular, the section which deals with Aborigines. It appears to me to be quite good. I had occasion in Western Australia to write to the Minister in charge of Aborigines in that State to draw his attention to the fact that it had been stated in the 'West Australian' newspaper that 423 Government houses were vacant in various country towns in Western Australia. I suggest to that Minister that he may be able to use some of those vacant houses to house the Aborigines who are calling out for homes, I will bet you anything you like that there are many such homes in other States which are vacant and costing governments money. They could be used, if necessary, to house Aborigines and to find out whether they can look after homes. They should be given an opportunity. Why should the Commonwealth have to grant this money to the States to build homes for Aborigines when there are homes vacant waiting for someone to go into them? I feel sure that if we looked at the matter carefully enough we could-- 
-I am addressing you,  Mr Acting Deputy President.  I am sure that the Government could do something about the Aborigine issue without costing the country too much money. 
I have been asked many times how the country would make up the loss of revenue if death taxes were abolished. I would say that if we looked in our own backyard we might find some millions of dollars to spare that perhaps are not being spent wisely. I have been asked by someone alongside me how much this would cost. I have said previously that the Research Service of the Parliamentary Library has ascertained that if the exemption were lifted to $100,000 throughout Australia- if the Commonwealth gave sufficient to the States in return for lifting the exemption - the cost to us would be only $33m. I think that the figure given was $33m for $50,000 before tax and double, that is $66m, if the exemption line was lifted to $100,000. 
Members of the Australian Labor Party have said that they consider that this is an election Budget. As an Independent I think the Labor Party would like to be in the same position, if this is an election Budget, and produce a similar one because in my opinion it is a very good Budget. However, I am rather disappointed that greater provision has not been made for investigating road accidents. I did notice somewhere in this Budget that some financial assistance was given for this purpose. However, I feel that this Government and, indeed, every government in Australia has to look the facts straight in the face and investigate the causes of road accidents. The causes are not the faulty construction of roads, badly designed roads or badly designed motor cars. The cause is purely the fault of the nut behind the wheel.We can put him on the best roads in the country but, if we allow him to drink grog like he is doing today, we will have accidents. The State governments have proved that between 50 and 80 per cent of accidents are caused by people who drive cars when under the influence of alcohol. We will always have accidents which are caused by people driving under the influence until we have the guts to stand up and say: 'You will not drive a motor car while under the influence!' We will need to increase the penalties to a stage sufficient to make people realise that they should not drive while under the influence. 
I would suggest that the first time a person is found guilty of driving while under the influence his licence should be taken from him for a period of 3 months. On the second occasion he is found guilty of this charge, his licence should be taken from him for 12 months. On the third occasion we should cut him out for life. I do nol care what is. done. However, road deaths in Australia today are nothing less than a disgrace. 
I have said in Western Australia and in other States that the police should be told to man the parking areas of hotels and clubs and to lake the car keys from anyone who has been in those premises. If such action is not taken we are allowing death to get on the roads. In Canada the police do not go around catching people for speeding and prosecuting them. Canadians do not do too much speeding because points are taken from drivers who break the law of the road. People in Canada are not game to speed because they know that if they are convicted a certain number of times they will lose their licences forever. The Australian Capital Territory has some of thu best laid out roads in Australia, yet there are some nits in Canberra who cannot even turn round a bend without running off the side of the road. Their inability to control their cars is a result of the speed at which they are travelling. Until the Government is prepared to stand up and say to the people You are the cause of accidents and we are going to stop you from doing these things' accidents will continue and we will have a death rate on the roads 13 times the death rale of the Vietnam war. 
I have gone further than I intended. However, 1 will say that I am very proud tonight to stand here and speak on the Budget. 1 would like to think that, as a result of my efforts, the level of death duties had been reduced considerably at the end of 12 months. I am very sorry that my wife is not here to hear my speech tonight. She was killed in a road accident by a nit who has not even been charged. This is a disgraceful thing. I discovered, just by the way, that when your wife is killed on the road .she is nol worth one red cent if she has not had any earnings. That is what the people concerned think of the women of Australia, lt is high lime that we changed the law relating to wives who are killed in motor accidents. I told the insurance company that they did not have enough money in their vaults to replace my wife. However, it is shocking to think thai because a housewife and mother is not earning an income she is not worth a cent. In many instances the same thing applies to death taxes. Who gave the Government - or all governments - the right to say that if a husband and wife were killed instantaneously in a road accident it was the husband who died first? Was it said and done because the husband usually had the larger estate and the government could get some taxes from him? I think, gentlemen, that we should give very, very strict - complete - attention to death taxes. lt is obvious that we have not been paying enough attention to them. Too many thousands of people have been hurt by the inability of the Government to face the actual facts of the day - that is. that the Government should keep the exemptions up and in pace with the increase in valuations. lt is shocking to think that I receive letters from members of the rural community who have had death taxes imposed on them because of a death in a family and then the family is offered financial support by way of the rural reconstruction plan. What a ridiculous situation. We take money from a family with one hand and give it back with the other. 1 am asking honourable senators to look straight in the face at the proposition of increasing the exemption for death taxes. I will continue to make this my one platform. I am quite sure that if we adopted the policy of working on one thing at a time in an effort to clear it up properly we would do more good than is the case today. At the moment we are trying to handle 50 or 60 matters and we are getting nowhere with any of them. Before I sit down 1 would just like to say that I think this Budget is an excellent one. 
The ACTING  PRESIDENT (Senator Wood)  - I call  Senator Carrick. 
I am not a lawyer. I am just an ordinary Australian senator and the way 1 view the situation is that 1 do not think any of these people mentioned would have been charged if they had been average law abiding citizens. 
1 feel that if I were in the situation where a police constable came to me, at any place in any situation, and asked me to move on because I was breaking the law. I would believe him. 1 would nol ask him for a copy of the law to which he was referring. I would probably go home and ring up the Department in question. As I said in this chamber last night by way of an interjection which was taken the wrong way, if the law was produced to me, in all probability as an ordinary citizen 1 would not be able to read and understand it. The law is expressed in such legal terms. I feel that the average citizen knows when he is breaking the law. 
In my opinion, the Aboriginal embassy in front of Parliament House was a complete eyesore. If I had had anything to do with it the Aboriginal embassy would have been moved purely for health reasons. The embassy had no hygiene facilities at all. I feel that this Government was very lenient in allowing it to remain there for so long. The judgment of the Full Court - and I have been through it very carefully - states that the Court had not found the Ordinance to be invalid but merely inoperative. The Ordinance was found to be inoperative purely and simply because it was not notified in the right way. The Ordinance was not put on a board in the right way. If all ordinances were put up on a board, Parliament House would not be big enough to hold them all and no-one would know where to look for the particular ordinance they were seeking. 
If the officers of the police force had done what might be thought to be the right thing and had taken with them copies of the Ordinance and handed them out, and had said: This is the Ordinance; we are moving you off this land', any average citizen in those circumstances would have known that he should not be there. If the police had asked these people to move and they had moved quietly, no charges of any kind would have been laid against them. This situation arises purely because of the incorrect way in which notification of ordinances was carried out over the years under the various governments - not just the present Government. People have accepted the past procedure as correct. I do not think one should throw stones in the direction of the present AttorneyGeneral. He is acting only on the basis of something produced by somebody behind the scenes. He believes that in all probability what is presented to him is correct. This is a situation that has been going on for years. We are all in exactly the same position. 
When this Bill has been passed tonight we will not know that it will stand up until it has been tested before a judge of the Supreme Court. It might be found that there is something wrong with this law, but I suggest that we can do no more than accept that the Bill has been given deep and due consideration. We hope that it is right. As a Parliament we have to do our job and pass the Bill, in the same way as parliaments have been doing for 32 years. In the past we have enacted legislation which we felt was right and were told was right, but we can all make mistakes and we should admit that we do make mistakes. In this instance we are trying to correct a mistake that has been made evidently for 32 years by various govern ments, it is such a simple thing to correct this mistake with this legislation. Let this law then stand until someone challenges it. If it then becomes necessary to change the law again we will do so, and we will continue to change it if necessary. 
When one considers all the laws that the Parliament has made over the years one could think that they should all be put on the scrap heap and burned. But how are we to know whether a law is valid or invalid? We are not all lawyers. Only the judges who have these matters pointed out to them are in a position to decide on the validity of a law. In my opinion this whole situation has been brought about by the fact that Aborigines put an embassy on the lawns in front of Parliament House. That was a disgraceful exhibition. I feel that they gained nothing by doing that and that they would have gained much by quietly approaching the right department or members of Parliament and asking them to act on their behalf. So far as I am concerned the situation is as it should be. We are endeavouring to correct a fault in the law. I am opposed to the amendment and propose to support the Bill. 
 I have listened with considerable interest to all that has been said in this debate. When  Senator Murphy  introduced his motion, I honestly believed that he had in mind the possibility of Australia as a nation being hurt very deeply by these outrages. No doubt this debate has been brought on and conducted more seriously as a result of the bomb outrages in Sydney on Saturday and the outrages in Munich. It must be obvious to all clear thinking Australians that these outrages will affect Australia unless we take action to stop them. Actions speak louder than words. We are talking our heads off tonight but where are we getting? I have listened to many senators talking about all kinds of things which will not produce action. Can any honourable senator tell me that the reference of a subject such as this to a committee or to a royal commission will result in it being dealt with urgently while Australian lives are in danger? 
We should ask the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  to appeal to the police forces throughout Australia to direct every available man to search for any person who could hurt the public and for any material that could be used to injure the public. We should stop the sales of explosives without a permit and without the purchaser even giving his name and address, as is the practice in Australia today. We should make every person declare whatever stock he has and we should require everyone to produce identification before being permitted to buy more explosives, lt is ridiculous to say that the Yugoslavs are the only people who might be implicated in outrages of this nature. The daily Press today reports that 2 Australians are to be extradited to Western Australia from Victoria on charges of allegedly attempting to blow up a building in Western Australia. Australians are not lillywhites they cannot be whitewashed, because they are as responsible for acts of violence as are people of any other country in the world. 
Various types of people have come to Australia and the majority of them are good people; very few are responsible for these acts of violence. The best thing we can do is to give full support to the AttorneyGeneral and to the Commonwealth Police and to the State Police forces and to all others who can stop these acts. We could ask all members of Parliament to report directly to the Attorney-General anything they hear about such acts so that he can take action. I do not think we will get anywhere by talking our heads off tonight. We must have direct action. I appeal to the Attorney-General to appeal in turn to the people of Australia to report any person who appears likely to take some action which could lead to violence. It is wrong that an innocent person can be killed or injured while we are talking our heads off and getting nowhere. Let us have action. 
I do not wish to say more because talking is a waste of time. I appeal to the AttorneyGeneral to give us action, 
 I direct a question to the Attorney-General because I spoke to him recently and I believe that he may be able to answer the question. Does the Minister know that quantities of gelignite, fuse and caps and probably most other types of explosives are easily obtainable without permits practically anywhere in Australia? ls he aware that identification of a purchaser is not necessary? Does he recognise, in view of the recent bomb incidents, that immediate and urgent action should be taken by the Government to correct this situation? Will the Minister advise the Senate whether the Government is taking or intends to take action to introduce rectifying laws in connection with these matters? If not, will he request the Government to do so immediately before any further bomb explosions occur? Will action be taken to require persons to declare all explosives held by them at present? Further, if this matter of control of explosives is considered to be a State matter, will the Minister recommend the immediate introduction of legislation by the State in an endeavour to reduce further bomb incidents? 
 I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport. I preface it by saying that on 5th September the Commonwealth Government offered to make a $3.5m grant to the New South Wales Government to construct a new graving dock in Newcastle I ask: Has this grant been accepted? If not, will the Commonwealth Government offer it to the Western Australian Government to construct a dry dock at the Cockburn Sound naval base? Does the Minister know that I have asked on a previous occasion for such a dock to be incorporated in the Cockburn Sound naval base? Does the Minister know that Western Australia has a need for dry docking facilities as there are no such facilities on the west coast of Australia? If the grant has been accepted by the New South Wales Government, will the Commonwealth Government give consideration to making a similar grant to Western Australia? 
 I speak with difficulty this evening because I have just received some tragic news. I sincerely trust that the Senate will bear with mc if I do not speak as I feel I should. However, I owe it to the people of Western Australia at this time to speak on this Bill. I support the Bill fully because it is a move in the right direction, which is eventual complete abolition of death duties. I fully support the amendment pro posed by the Democratic Labor Party because that Party is endeavouring to achieve what I am fighting for. I feel that the Government by making this move at this time will gain many votes, particularly from Western Australia. I sincerely trust that this move by the Government through the top Parliament of Australia will set an example which will be followed by the States. I indicate at this point that at the Committee stage I shall move some amendments. I do not know whether they will be accepted. I feel that I could explain them briefly in two or three lines, but the Parliamentary Counsel has made the amendments so involved that I doubt that I will know what they mean. 
The purpose of the first amendment is to endeavour to have the Government agree to an exemption of $100,000 instead of $40,000. In view of the valuations at present $100,000 would be closer to the mark. I propose also that . the exemptions should not be lifted across the board as the. Government intends because this would include strangers in blood. I do not feel that strangers in blood should receive any exemption. Also I object thoroughly to the practice which has continued .for many years whereby charities receive bequests under a will free of tax although the, widow or dependent children are required to pay tax. I think that is completely wrong. On many occasions a husband will leave money to a charity in an endeavour to reduce his death taxes that- his widow might otherwise have to pay, but the result of his action is that he is robbing his widow of some of the money that she should receive and would receive if it were not for the death taxes. I do not want to spend too much time talking about this matter, but I indicate that previously I requested the Federal Government to discuss this matter with the States in an endeavour to find some solution to the problem of replacing the revenue that would be lost to the States if they removed State death taxes so that eventually the States could abolish probate and succession duties. 
As one honourable senator said earlier tonight, State probate and succession duties are between 4 and 5 times as heavy as Federal estate duties. It is completely wrong that these duties should be imposed on people, lt is like robbing their bones, robbing them in their graves. It is amazing hew many people do not realise what the situation is. Recently I received a letter from a widow who wrote to me from Victoria. She said that she and her husband had resided in Victoria all their lives.  Her  husband had been employed by a Victorian firm and because of. that employment he was required to take up superannuation under a scheme provided by that firm. He did not know where the insurance firm had its head office. After the husband's death no death duties became payable in Victoria but she was required to pay $1,339 to the New South Wales Government on the superannuation because the head office of the superannuation firm happened to be in Sydney. That is the kind of situation that death taxes bring about. 
For the benefit of members of tb e Australian Labor Party, I mention that I received a letter only yesterday from a person who said that her husband had been a basic wage earner and that she had just had to pay $5,000 in death taxes. I feel sure that S this matter is looked at closely and very carefully it will be realised that evidence presented to the Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations reveals that valuations of properties have risen to between 5 and 10 times their former value over the last 20 years. Therefore the Federal Government should be raising the exemption to five or ten times the present amount. In one of my amendments I propose that the exemption in relation to estate duty should be increased to $100,000. The. Government's proposal to increase the exemption to $40,000 is just a token move. The proposed increase from $20,000 to $40,000 is only one-fifth of what it should be as a minimum. 
At times I am overcome by the letters 1 receive from people. It amazes me lo think what is going on in Australia and that we, the people, are the cause of what is happening by allowing death taxes to exist. I have had more than 60,000 letters from people all over Australia telling me of their problems. With every letter I receive 1 become madder. It amazes me that we allow these things to continue. I understand that the Death Duty Bills are also being dealt with in this debate, so at this point I mention that although it is proposed that the exemption in relation to gift duties shall be raised from $4,000 to $10,000, in my view this is just a start and the amount should be $50,000 or $60,000 before gift tax becomes payable. It must be realised by all and sundry that when a person receives a gift and does not have to pay gift duty he probably puts the gift straight into something which will create employment, whereas at present the money sits idly in the bank, usually because of the taxes which gifts attract. 
Many people do not know how to practise the tax avoidance which is practised throughout Australia. They are not aware of the situation and cannot pay for advice. I can say quite definitely from letters that I have received that the legal community is causing much trouble in relation to death taxes, that trustee companies are causing much trouble and that the insurance companies are doing the same. I had to help many people in one case where 4 firms of solicitors could not get any action. Yet I, as a private citizen, managed to achieve some results. I am very proud to be able to say that. In all probability the solicitors and the trustee companies have so many wills with which to deal that they do a little in respect of each one but do not carry on with the work until the job on each one is finished. I feel that I must point out once again that the Government will achieve quite considerable support from the public for its move in these Bills, which I trust sincerely are only a beginning. I feel that I cannot talk longer and I thank the Senate for listening. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Postmaster-General. I realise that this matter has been raised today but I want to draw attention to it again. Is the Minister aware that over the past 12 months many people have complained that their telephone accounts for local calls have increased to 3 or 4 times the amount paid by them for years? Is the Minister aware that these increases have occurred only since new computer equipment has been installed by the Postmaster-General's Department? Does he know that some people in private homes are being charged for up to 28 local calls a day 7 days a week as against their previous average of 4 telephone calls a day? Are people expected to accept and pay an account when they know full well that they are being charged for telephone calls which were never made? Will the Minister advise what further action a private citizen can take after written appeals to the PostmasterGeneral and his Department have failed to produce relief? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Did the Commonwealth Government on 5 September 1972 offer to make a grant of $3.5 million available to the New South Wales Government for the construction of a new graving dock; if so, was the offer accepted. 
If the offer referred to in (1) was not accepted and as the west coast of Australia lacks such a facility, will the Commonwealth Government make a similar offer to the Western Australian Government to enable a graving dock to be constructed at Cockburn Sound. 

 Senator COTTON- The Minister for Shipping and Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Prime Minister wrote to the Premier of New South Wales on 15 August 1972, offering a non-repayable grant of $3. 5m for the construction of a new large graving dock at Newcastle. The Premier subsequently advised the Prime Minister that the estimated cost of the new dock had risen substantially. This increase is being investigated urgently by the New South Wales Government. 
The offer of this grant followed consideration by the Commonwealth of a request from the New South Wales Government for assistance to replace the present floating dock at Newcastle. The Commonwealth decision to offer this grant resulted from the examination of a number of proposals put forward for either new or enlarged dry docks at various locations around Australia. The Commonwealth's assessment was that, on the basis of national needs, the projected requirement was for one new large dry dock. In these circumstances no further action will be taken by the Commonwealth until the results of the New South Wales Government's investigations, referred to in the first part of this question, are available. 
I move: 
After clause 2, insert the following new clause: 2a'. Section 8 of the Estate Duty Assessment Act 1914-1970 is amended by omitting from subsection (5.) the word 'Duty' and inserting in its stead the words 'Except where paragraph (c) of sub-section (1.) of section eighteen  a  of this Act applies, duty'.". 
I have copies alongside me and I will circulate them.  Mr Chairman,  1 ask you and honourable senators to bear with me. It seems to me that this matter has become far more involved than I expected it to become, even to the extent that the Parliamentary Counsel had to have 3 attempts to produce the right amendments. I did not wish to present them in the order in which, according to the Bill, they have to be presented. Put very simply, the amendment I have just moved provides that the various charities and other organisations that are now exempt from duty on estates left to them will not be exempt if part of the estate goes to the widow. children or grandchildren of the ^deceased. That is all I wish to achieve. What I have just read out is what is necessary to amend the Act to that effect. 
At the present time the situation is that in many cases throughout Australia a man leaves a section of his estate to charities, perhaps with the object in mind of reducing the burden of duty on his widow and children, and in most cases the charities receive cash and the widow and children are left with property on which they have to try to raise cash to pay estate duties. I personally see no reason why a widow and dependent children should have to pay duty when charities and other organisations are exempt from duty. I do not wish to talk on this point for too long, other than to say that it seems wrong to me, as an ordinary Australian citizen, that charities and other organisations should be exempt whereas a widow and children have to pay duty. 
 Mr President,  it appears to me that passage of this motion would be like closing the gate after the horse has got out. It is proposed that we try to correct something that has already happened. We cannot take from the people who have let the tender for these steel pipes the right to let that tender once it has been let. We cannot ask the people responsible for this job to do anything more than give Australian manufacturers the right to manufacture the material for which a contract has not been let. The Senate is being asked to do something which is impossible. If this reference goes to the Senate Standing Committee on Industry and Trade the Committee's report will probably come out when the pipeline is half built or when half the steel has already arrived. We know very well that Australian labour will be used to lay this pipe if it will work on the project but we cannot take rights from the people concerned if they have already let the tender. We should have made provision to avoid this situation before it arose. 
I appeal to honourable senators to think about the matter so that they can understand the situation. If I as a building contractor had let a tender to someone I would fight like blazes to retain the right to have that tender stand. If there are objections to the calling of tenders overseas for this steel pipe they should have been raised before tenders were called. As that was not done why the devil should we waste time? Please think of this matter in that light. Think of it individually as if you were the tenderer or the one who called for the tenders. The matter has gone by the board. We cannot do anything about it. Perhaps we can close the gate in order to cope with things in the future but we cannot at this stage impose a duty on the importation of steel pipe from Japan. That would be doing the wrong thing. I will not support either the motion or the amendment. 
Question put: 
That the amendment  (Senator O'Byrne's be agreed to. 
I do not want to speak out of turn but I want to indicate my feelings on this matter at this time. I am prepared, on what has been said up to date, to withdraw these amendments in order to avoid unnecessary debate. Before doing so. I would like to explain to honourable senators what I was endeavouring to do. I hoped I would succeed in having one of the amendments accepted by the Senate. I felt that the Commonwealth Government had not raised the exemptions sufficiently when lt doubled them across the board because valuations alone have increased by between 5 and 10 times. Secondly, I do not agree with the exemptions being raised right across the board because this includes strangers in blood. I do not consider that strangers in blood should ever have complete exemption or any kind of an exemption when widows and children have to pay. A further matter related to charities, and the final one was to bring in- 
 Mr Chairman,  I do understand. Honestly, I do not wish to waste the time of the Senate. 1 do not think that this is the moment to waste the time of the Senate. 1 will withdraw the amendment that I have moved and will not proceed with the other amendments. I do not know whether I am out of order but I do feel that it is most important that I should point out to the Committee and to Government senators that it is completely wrong for alaw such as this to have existed for so long without a hardship clause. The insertion of a hardship clause would give to Government officials the right to say to people who were really in struggling circumstances: We can wipe out 50 per cent of the tax. You do not need to pay any more than a small portion of it'. The absence of a hardship clause is completely wrong. I have a letter from the Commissioner responsible for probate duty in New South Wales which states that no hardship clause is contained in the probate duty legislation in that State. 1 think that this is a shocking thing. 
I have the amendment here. 
 Mr Chairman,  it is my wish to proceed with the amendment relating to hardship. 
The  CHAIRMAN  (SenatorProwse)Order! When we come to the relevant clause, you certainly will have the opportunity to move that amendment. I have noted your request to withdraw the amendment that you have moved. The correct procedure is for you to indicate to the Senate what you wish to withdraw. 
The hardship clause is found on page 2 of the circulated copy of my amendments. I wish to withdraw the amendment that I have moved and not to proceed with the second amendment that I have foreshadowed which is No. 2 in the circulated copy. 
Amendment - by leave - withdrawn. 
Clause 3 (Statutory exemption). 
That is right. 
Clause agreed to. 
Proposed new clause 3a. 
 Mr Chairman,  I propose to move amendment No. 3 circulated in my name. Is it the wish of the Senate that I should read it? 
I move: 
After clause 3, insert the following new clause: 3a. After section 48 of the Estate Duty Assessment Act 1914-1970 the following section is inserted: 48a. - (1.) In any case where it is shown to the satisfaction of a Board consisting of the Commissioner, the Secretary to the Treasury and the Comptroller-General of Customs or of such substitutes for all or any of them as the Minister appoints from time to time that the exaction of the full amount of duty payable in respect of so much of an estate as is received by the widow or widower, or by a child, of the deceased will entail serious hardship to the widow, widower or child, the Board may release the administrator or other person liable to pay the duty wholly or in part from his liability in respect of that duty and the Commissioner may make such entries as are necessary to give effect to that determination. (2.) The Commissioner or his substitute shall be  Chairman  of the Board, and the decision of the majority shall prevail. (3.) Where an application is made for a determination under this section in respect of an amount of duty, if that amount is not less than one thousand dollars, the Board shall, and if that amount is less than one thousand dollars, the Board may, refer the application to a member of a Board of Review and shall notify the applicant in writing of its having done so. (4.) The member of the Board of Review who has jurisdiction to deal with applications referred under this section shall, at the discretion of the  Chairman  of that Board, be the  Chairman  or such other member as he authorises in writing to deal with the application. (5.) The applicant may appear before the member of the Board of Review or the member of the Board of Review may require the applicant to  appear before him, either in person or by a representative, and the member of the Board  of  Review may examine the applicant or the representative of the applicant upon oath concerning any statements which the applicant has, or desires  to  have, placed before the Board constituted  by  this section. (6.) The member of the Board of Review shall be assisted in his examination of the applicant by an officer who is a qualified accountant. (7.) The member of the Board of Review may permit the taxpayer to be assisted at the examination by such persons as the member of the Board of Review considers the circumstances justify. (8.) A record shall be made of the information elicited by the member of the Board of Review during his examination. (9.) The member of the Board of Review shall submit a report to the Board constituted by this section upon the facts disclosed by his examination, and shall draw the attention of that Board to any facts which in his opinion have particular bearing upon the application; and the report shall be accompanied by the record made under the last preceding sub-section. (10.) In lieu of referring any application to a member of a Board of Review in accordance with sub-section (3.) of this section, the Board constituted under this section may refer the application to the  Chairman  of a Valuation Board, in which event sub-sections (5.) to (9.), inclusive, of this section apply as if the references to the member of the Board of Review were references to the  Chairman  of the Valuation Board.'.". 
That long winded section is necessary in the Estate Duty Assessment Act because it inserts a relief of hardship section to protect the people of Australia. I do not want to say much more than that. It is a relief of hardship section which can be used by members of the departments concerned to allow people not to pay tax if there is a hardship. At present there is no cover for people if there is a hardship. I request the Committee to give very serious and due consideration to the inclusion of the proposed new clause. 
in reply  -  I suggest that the Committee has debated this subject for long enough. I thank all honourable senators who have spoken in the debate, whatever their opinion is because it is their own opinion, I hope, and not a party opinion. I sincerely thank members of the Australian Labor Party for supporting the amendment. I do not say that they are doing so from  a  political point of view.  I  feel that they may gradually be having a change of heart.I sympathise with  Senator Devitt  and all other members of the Standing Committee because I feel that perhaps we should have waited for the Committee's report to be presented. The Committee expected its report to come before the Sen- ate before the end of September, but that has not happened and it seems that the Committee will have to go into recess on 2nd December when the Parliament is dissolved, and probably 3 or 4 months will pass before the Committee can present its findings. In the meantimepeople can be hurt. I had hoped that the members of the Country Party and of the Liberal Party who have said that they will not support the amendment might have had a change of heart as a result of the debate. All I can do now is ask them to vote as they believe they should vote since the amendment can help people in distress. Surely it is not much to ask honourable senators to vote truly in order to help people in distress.  Mr Chairman,  I move: 
That the  question  be  now  put. 

<graphic href="054232197210181_92_2_1_A.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="054232197210181_92_2_2_N.jpg"></graphic>

Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Original question put: 
That the proposed new clause  3a  (Senator Negus's amendment)  be inserted  in theBill. 
1 am trying to look at this matter from an independent's point of view. I can see the position of the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  quite clearly. He has a certain number of Bills to get through. If the Senate were a private concern I am sure that it would concentrate on the important business first and worry about the less important business afterwards. I have asked previously that we cut question time out when we are really busy and have a lot of Bills before the Senate, but I have been told very clearly that question time is essential. I also agree with the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Murphy).  I feel sure from what 1 heard in this chamber yesterday that honourable senators opposite are prepared to co-operate in every way possible. Personally I would not care a tuppenny dash if we sat next Tuesday and next Wednesday, as we are supposed to rise next Thursday. J realise that the Leader of the Government in the Senate has said that if any honourable senator wishes to ask a particular question after three-quarters of an hour of question time has elapsed he can seek leave to do so. I feel that in the circumstances the Leader of the Government in the Senate ought to give the Opposition an opportunity to cooperate. 
I preface my question which is addressed to the Minister representing the Postmaster-General by saying that I personally have approached not only the PostmasterGeneral but also the Post Office in Perth and have been advised in relation to my own telephone account that I could install a telephone call meter at my own home but it would not be recognised by the Post Office. Even though I paid for its installation the Post Office would still recognise only the readings onits own meter. I ask the Minister whether he is aware that thousands of Australian telephone subscribers have been receiving telephone accounts which amount to twice and sometimes thrice their normal average account? Is the Minister aware that up to date many private persons have been unable to have their accounts reduced and have had to pay these accounts or have their telephones disconnected? Will the Minister give an assur ance to the Australian people that refunds will be made on disputed accounts if the royal commission's findings indicate that there could have been malfunctions in the system resulting in overcharging? 
I preface a question to the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory by stating that, contrary to the general view, although the wearing of. seat belts in late model cars is now compulsory the accident rate on the roads of the Australian Capital Territory has not declined. I ask the Minister whether this is so because many motorists in the A.C.T. are able to exceed the speed limit by 10 to 15 miles an hour and apparently get away with it? Does the Minister consider that the only way to keep speeds down and reduce accidents is to have governors fitted to vehicles of continual offenders? Does he consider that inability to control cars at speeds is one of the major causes of accidents? Would it not help reduce the accident rate if penalties included suspension of the car registration, and driver's licence of second ' or third offenders charged with speeding? 
Is the . Minister representing the Minister for Immigration aware that in February of this year there appeared in the 'West Australian' the following headline: 'Ord may get a Little Pakistan'? The article stated that 900 acres had been allocated to a Pakistani at the Ord River, Kununurra, Western Australia; that a  Mr Maxbool  Shaikh had applied for the allotment 2 months previously; that he had a 30- year lease at a nominal rental and that he stated that he would employ Pakistanis to grow cotton and mangroves. Will the Minister give the Senate an assurance that Pakistanis will not be allowed to be employed on this project unless they become naturalised Australians? Can the Minister advise how many Pakistanis have been allowed into Australia, under our immigration scheme, up to this time? 
Thank you. I was waiting for you to call me,  Mr Deputy President.  I consider that a few honourable senators have spoken out of turn. I should like to say a few words on my own behalf as an independent senator. I believe very sincerely that the matter brought forward by the Australian Democratic Labor Party is not an urgent matter. It definitely should not take precedence over Government business. Some of the other matters under 
General Business are far more important than the one which the DLP is trying to bring forward tonight. 
It is completely wrong for nearly 3 hours of the Senate's time to be wasted in debating this ridiculous question. It should not have gone even this far. If we had had the brains and the sense we would have brought it to a head in less than half an hour. I am completely opposed to the motion because I know that at least 9 Bills are waiting to be debated by the Senate and they are far more important to the people of Australia than a debate on something that is water under the bridge, something that has completely gone. In this matter I will stand by the Government because I believe it is right, and it is wrong for the Opposition even to think of supporting the DLP in this case. This matter should not be considered as an urgent matter because it is not urgent. Under no circumstances would I support the motion. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. I preface it by saying that as a Western Australian I am very concerned about the future of the iron ore projects in the north-west of my State. I also refer to the fact that new projects in the Pilbara area such as McCamey's Monster and Rhodes Ridge apparently have been postponed because of the revaluation of the Australian dollar and other restrictions. I ask the Minister whether he knows that the revaluation of the Australian dollar has threatened to make our iron ore more expensive than that of other countries? Does he realise that if this is a fact Japan may purchase her requirements elsewhere in the very near future? Does the Minister know that the Japanese steel industry has already suspended plans for all new iron ore projects in the west? Does he realise what this means to the west and to the whole of Australia? Will he put this matter before the Treasurer and point out that the Japanese have suggested that if Australia were to devalue the dollar by 7.05 per cent the whole situation would be resolved? 
 I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory. My question refers to the recent tragic loss of life in a nightclub in Brisbane. I preface it by expressing my amazement that any licensing court should issue instructions that windows should be not only sealed to contain excessive noise but also permanently rivetted up. I ask: Does the Minister know that the purpose of windows in any building is not only to provide light but also to provide circulating air, which is most necessary in a smoky atmosphere as in a nightclub? Does he know that the provision of such windows is a condition laid down by the health authorities in any State and that plans will not be passed unless such windows are to be provided? Does the Minister know that a further condition in any phase of public entertainment is that an alternate fire escape door leading to a separate and independent exit has to be provided and kept free of obstruction at all times and that such a door is accepted only if it opens outwards and is fitted with a special quick release catch - the positioning of the fire door being away from the front door and normally at the rear of a building? Does he not agree that if excessive noise is issuing from any public entertainment premises orders should be issued to reduce the noise rather than seal the windows and that it is the duty of the licensing court to ensure that all windows and fire escape doors are working freely and correctly at all times to comply with health department and fire department standard regulations? Will he ensure that inspectors are instructed to inspect all premises in the Australian Capital Territory where the public is entertained to ensure that the building regulations are being observed at all times? Will he ensure that such inspection is carried out immediately? Will he advise the licensing court that it must never issue instructions to seal any wndows in any place of public entertainment because, those following such instructions would be not only breaking the building bylaws but also jeopardising people's lives? Will he consider advising and enlightening all State licensing courts of the situation immediately to ensure that the Brisbane horror is not repeated anywhere in Australia? I ask that, because it is a known fact that most nightclubs are established in basements or shops and such premises are not and were never intended to be used as places of public entertainment. 
I preface my question to the Attorney-General by saying that it is or should be one of the Parliament's first duties to protect Australia and Australians against terrorism. I ask the Attorney-General: Will he endeavour to arrange the immediate and urgent deportation of any known terrorists? Will he continue to protect visiting dignitaries in the same manner as was recently adopted, if he considers it necessary? Will he accept the heartfelt thanks of thousands and indeed millions of Australians for his recent direct and forthright action in endeavouring to protect the community from terrorism? 
I do not intend to say very much. I have written out what I intend to say in order to be careful that I do not encroach upon a subject upon which I should not encroach. 1 feel that is is very obvious to all clear thinking Australians that the reason for the visit to the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation by the Commonwealth Police and the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  has been clearly shown. It was the duty of the AttorneyGeneral to examine every possible source of information in his endeavour to ensure not only the safety of visiting dignitaries but also the safety of Australian citizens. If he had any doubts that he was receiving full information it was his duty as Attorney-General to obtain that information as quickly as possible in order to avoid possible bloodshed. Surely we should not allow anyone to condemn a Minister who by his very action produced conclusive proof that his visit was absolutely and completely justified. If he had not taken that action and someone had been hurt or killed, we would now be asking him to explain why he had not taken every possible precaution to protect human life. Those honourable senators who are criticising the raid on 
ASIO are placing ASIO before human life. I personally commend the Attorney-General for his action. 
I shall say a few words on this matter because on the last occasion a salary increase was proposed in this place I, by letter - I was recovering from an accident at the time - opposed any increase in the hope that the Federal Parliament would set an example to the people of Australia. At that time large increases in salaries and wages were being granted throughout Australia. I felt that the Federal Government should set an example. How wrong I was, because even though all of the members of the Parliament did not take the increases to which they were really entitled, in the hope that the people of Australia might recognise the fact that we were trying to set an example, claims for higher wages still were lodged. I feel that the people of Australia are making it very hard for themselves by continually seeking increases. The people of Australia should know that although the salary increases proposed for members of Parliament by the Bill before the Senate may appear to be terrific on paper, in fact they will be infinitesimal because they will automatically put us onto a higher tax scale. 
Of course, the tax that we pay will go back to the Government. I sincerely trust,  Senator Cavanagh,  that it will not go back to the Government in probate; I sincerely trust that it will not be long before probate duty is no longer payable. However I feel that the people of Australia should be made to realise that although this increase of $5,000 being awarded to back bench members of Parliament appears to be a terrific increase, after we pay income tax the increase is not so big, so they need not be quite so worried that we are receiving a large increase in salary. 
I support the proposed increase. I sincerely trust that people will take note of the fact that we are accepting it a little reluctantly at this stage, although it is well overdue. Candidly, I was of the opinion - I am still of the opinion - that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the Ministers under him should not receive an increase in salary. Perhaps the only members of the Parliament who should receive an increase are the backbenchers. I personally did not care whether or not I received the increase. I am being quite honest about that. I, like  Senator Townley,  was quite satisfied to continue with the salary on which I appointed to the Parliament. However, I sincerely hope that the claims for increased wages and salaries throughout Australia will come to a dead stop because it is time we realised that we are only spoiling it for ourselves. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration, although it may come within the responsibility qf the Attorney-General. What precautions are taken by. overseas immigration officials to check to ensure that no immigrants are accepted for Australia if they are connected in any way with terrorist organisations? What precautions are taken to ensure that a person with a police record showing that such a person has been or is connected with such crimes as terrorism, robbery with violence, breaking and entering, thuggery, hijacking, or any other such act is not accepted or even considered as an immigrant to Australia? Are the police records of the proposed immigrants thoroughly checked before they are accepted? Are the previous records, if any, of accepted immigrants asked to be forwarded to the Australian authorities to be placed with our records for future reference? Have any persons with past records or convictions against them ever been accepted as immigrants to Australia? If so, will the Minister ensure that all precautions are taken in the future so that Australia will not be accepting or harbouring persons  of  doubtful character? Does not the Minister feel that the methods of checking possible immigrants should be tightened in the future? Will the Minister treat this matter as urgent and act upon  it  immediately? 
I direct a question to the Attorney-General. It may help the situation if I tell him that I addressed a similar question to the previous Attorney-General on 26th September last year. It dealt with explosives. I asked the previous Attorney-General and I now ask the present Attorney-General this question: '-  i  , 
Does the Minister know that quantities of gelignite, fuses and caps and probably most other types of explosives .are easily obtainable without permits practically anywhere in Australia? Is he aware that identification of a purchaser is not necessary? Does he recognise, in view of the recent bomb incidents, that immediate and urgent action should be taken by the Government to correct this situation? Will the Minister advise the Senate whether the Government is taking or intends to take action to introduce rectifying laws in connection with these matters? 
The answer given by the previous AttorneyGeneral was that he would have a complete survey conducted by the Department and that he proposed to take up the matter with his colleagues in the various States when the results of that survey were received. I ask: Has the present Minister seen the completed survey? If he has, has any action been taken to impart the results to the States? 
 I wish to give my personal views tonight as an Independent. Sometimes I am most thankful that I am an Independent. I feel that discussion of this matter is at the stage where it is becoming a political football.  Senator McManus  said a little while ago in his address that he felt that the statement which appeared in the Press about  200  people being charged with terrorist activities or being described as terrorists resulted from some information which had come from somewhere. I wonder whether we can accept everything that the newspapers print? Personally, I do not. I know that the newspapers misrepresent people. They have misrepresented me on occasions and I am sure that other honourable senators will agree that the same thing has happened to them. By changing a word here or there, the newspapers can create the wrong impression of what a person has said. 
Let me give an example of how the news media does this. The other night I watched the Australian Broadcasting Commission program 'Four Corners'. A segment in that program involved an interview with a young university student about the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. He was so hesitant in speaking that it was obvious that he was a little frightened about the whole situation. But to add a nice touch to the interview, this ABC program showed policemen trotting around trees to the background music of 'The Teddy Bear's Picnic', the first line of which, I am reminded, is 'If You Go Down in the Woods Today'. If that is not making a joke of a serious matter, I do not know what is. Therefore, I ask: Can we believe what we see, hear or read through the media? I do not think we can. 
In this chamber we must stick to facts. I have stood up here for the previous AttorneyGeneral,  Senator Greenwood,  and I am standing up now for the present Attorney-General,  Senator Murphy.  I will stand in this House in support of any man if I feel that he is being wrongly accused of some act which in his own mind he was justified in doing because of what he thought was right. When  Senator Greenwood  was Attorney-General I believe he acted as he thought right at that time.  Senator Murphy,  as our present AttorneyGeneral, also has acted as he thought right. We should not throw stones at either of them. 
If that is not throwing stones, I do not know what it is. 

 - Mr Acting Deputy President, am I not supposed to address the chair? 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Wilkinson)  - Yes. 
I say that the present situation is getting completely out of hand. I repeat what I said on an earlier occasion in the course of question time: At this time the present Attorney-General is under fire for something he did that, in his own opinion, was done to protect the public and a visiting dignitary. I repeat that if he had not taken those precautions and someone had been killed or injured we would now be asking him why he had not taken those precautions. Prevention is better than cure. I personally feel that if the police or the Attorney-General has any suspicion about any person in Australia, whether that person is an Australian or a foreigner, who may be proposing to carry out an act of terrorism, that person should be stopped before that act is committed, not after it is carried out. 
I congratulate the Attorney-General on his action. I feel that he was actually seeking to protect people from a possible  event similar to that which happened many months ago in Sydney when bombs were placed in a public area. Such acts can occur if we do not have the courage of our convictions. I feel that the actions of the Attorney-General deserve nothing but praise because he endeavoured, as Attorney-General, on his own assessment of the situation to stop something before it started. I think  Senator Greenwood  will agree with me when I say that I have stood in support of him as I will stand in support of any man in this Senate if I think he is being unjustifiably accused. Perhaps we , have ourselves to blame for these problems. I feel that perhaps ASIO has not been doing the job for which it is being paid. I feel, as I am sure other honourable senators do, that the police at times are quite lax in their , job. and sometimes will, not follow up leads given to them by the public. . They receive so many false leads that they give up. I .consider that an organisation like ASIO should not take a chance in respect of any situation,. It should examine and check every possibility. If there are any doubts, action must be taken to stop any act before an incident occurs, not after it has happened. That action may include a raid.   . 
I say that the present laws in - Australia regarding explosives are absolutely shocking and outdated. From memory, anyone who bought an explosive, such as gelignite, many years ago had to put that explosive in a locked box, then place it inside another locked box and finally place it in a locked shed marked 'Danger-Explosives'. That is not happening in Australia today; except in the case of mining organisations. We are too lax. I have a question to ask the Attorney-General tomorrow on this point. I will ask him whether he will endeavour to arrange for an announcement to be made in the media asking people to return any explosives that they have to the nearest police station. Many people do not know that if gelignite is left lying around it can become highly dangerous, more so than if it is in new form. I am sure that there are old explosives of all kinds throughout Australia. Even shotgun cartridges can be highly dangerous because they contain explosives. I feel that this situation results from our laxity. 
Anyone of doubtful character who may even have been thinking of starting terrorism should never have been considered as a potential migrant for Australia - never, right from the start. I think that probably our Department of Immigration was lax right from the start. I am not saying that any of our immigrants has been or will be guilty of terrorism but we should have no doubt about anyone; we should be absolutely sure that a migrant has no record of terrorism or acts of violence. If we do not make sure of that, it is our own fault. 1 know very well that there are many Australians who conduct acts of violence. We cannot crow. I say that we should tighten up our own laws at this time and ensure, to the best of our ability, that we stop these things before they start. I must say that the recent raids on premises were conducted because the police, or someone who instructed them, thought that there was a reasonable cause for those raids. We would be silly to ourselves if we tried to stop that kind of thing. We should allow that kind of thing to go on because by doing so we are protecting ourselves. We are arguing about this matter at present, or discussing it, because not one of us has been hurt personally. If the wife of one of us had been hurt by a bomb during one of these terrorist acts we would feel like going out and shooting someone. Please, let us have a little sense and realise that not only the present Attorney-General but the previous AttorneyGeneral did what they thought was right at the time. Do not let us criticise them. Let them understand that we are trying to ensure, with their help, that no people in Australia are hurt. 
I address my question to the Attorney-General. Is it a fact that the main reason for his action in relation to the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation incident was that he felt human life was or could have been endangered by terrorist action? Did the Minister honestly feel that there existed in Australia terrorists or terrorism? Did he feel it his duty to act quickly, against such terrorists? Will court action be taken against such terrorists? If such court action results in sentences being imposed on the offenders, does the AttorneyGeneral consider that an apology should be forthcoming from those senators, who supported the motion of want of confidence against him? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs although it might well be addressed to the Minister representing the Treasurer.  Mr President,  I request permission to read extracts from a Western Australian newspaper to preface the question. 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Transport seen the reported statement by  Dr K.  G. Jamieson.  President  of the Neuro-Surgeons  Society of Australasia, in one of today's Melbourne papers that more than two-thirds of the injuries received in motor car accidents throughout Australia are head  injuiries?  In view of this fact, will the Minister introduce necessary legislation to make it compulsory for drivers and all front-seat passengers to wear approved crash helmets? 
Honourable senators will be aware that I entered the Senate nearly 2 years ago last August. I had before the Senate, under the heading of 'General Business', a motion that, without any doubt, affects more than 40,000 Australians every year. I approached both the Leader of the Government in the Senate and the Leader of the Opposition at that time to try to have that motion on death taxes brought forward. Try as 1 might, I had no chance whatever to do anything but have my motion take its place with the others under the heading of 'General Business'. General Business is supposed to be discussed on Thursday evenings between 8 o'clock and ] 1 o'clock. 
 I consider that  Senator Gair's  motion should take its place with the others under the heading of 'General Busi ness' and be debated in its turn. It should not be given precedence over anything else. If my motion in relation to death taxes, which without doubt affected many people in Australia, had to wait its turn, this motion ought to wait its turn because it deals only with fiction and not with fact. Therefore, I say that in this case, without any doubt, honourable senators should allow the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  to do what he is supposed to be doing, namely, dealing with the placing of business in such a way as to enable us to debate Bills which are before the Parliament and that  Senator Gair's  motion should take its place under General Business where it should be. 
asked the Minister repre senting the. Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Is  it  a  fact that (a) the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics provided more than '$ 1,050m to  Indonesia  in aid up to 1966, and(b) Australia has, up  to  June 1973, given Indonesia $53.8m, as well  as  16 Sabre aircraft worth $10m and some naval patrol  vessels; if so,  why did the previous Government  offer  that country $69m on a grant basis over a period  of  3 years from June 1973,  a  large proportion of  which  was  to  be used for the purchase of naval  vessels. 
Does the Minister agree that any equipment purchased by Indonesia as  a  result of this offer from Australia may rot away in the same manner as the equipment provided by the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. 
Will the Minister examine the situation carefully with a view to withdrawing the offer and using the money saved to make grants to Australian States in an endeavour to reduce death taxes on Australian citizens by lifting the exemption to $50,000 before tax is applied. 
Will the Minister give the Senate an assurance that before making gifts to another country in future, an investigation will be made into what previous aid has been given and how that aid has been used. 

 Senator WILLESEE - The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
(a) Yes. (b) The cumulative total of Australia's economic aid to Indonesia up to the end of June 1973 will be $A104.2m. A further $A69m grant aid, also for economic development purposes, has been committed for the period 1st July 1973 to 30th June 1976. None of this will be used to supply naval vessels, or other military equipment. However, under a separate program an additional $20m has been committed for defence and technical co-operation with Indonesia in the period 1st July 1972 to 30th June 1975. It is under this program that ex RAAF Sabre aircraft have been supplied to Indonesia and that patrol boats will be provided. I believe the reasons why the previous Government offered aid to Indonesia were stated by that Government on several occasions. 
No. On the contrary, we have every expectation that Indonesia will continue to make good use of Australian aid in future as it has in the past. A major reason for the present situation regarding Soviet aid projects in Indonesia has been that all Soviet economic and military aid to Indonesia, including the provision of essential spare parts and technical expertise, was terminated following the failure of the attempted coup of 30th September 1965. It isan essential part of Australian aid programs that appropriate spare parts, technical services, training and other back up services are provided where appropriate to ensure that the projects should be successful. We do not embark on projects unless we are satisfied that the Indonesian authorities share our determination to makea success of them.  (31  No. We believe that aid will be used beneficially. 
Yes. This has been our practice and we intend to keep a close watch on all aid projects. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Has the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics given aid to Indonesia, up to 1966, totalling more than $ 1,050m, consisting of: 
an aircraft factory at Bandung which produced only 6 aircraft, but is now closed; 
a sugar refinery at Atjeh, Sumatra, which failed 2 days after opening, and is now closed; 
a steel mill at Tjillgon Java, which did not produce any steel, but which may be re-started wilh Western funds; 
A phosphate plant at Tjilitjap Java, which failed and is now closed; 
a marine biology laboratory at Ambon which was stopped after being only partially completed; (0 a nuclear reactor at Bandung that was never fuelled; 
forty-seven naval vessels including 10 submarines, 4 cruisers, 7 destroyer escorts, 14 patrol craft, 12 'Komar* missile boats, of which Jess than half are  now operating marginally,  submarines and cruisers having gone and the ships having been towed to Hong Kong to be sold for scrap; 
one hundred aircraft, of which only 20 are flying; and 
three SAM batteries equipped with guided missiles,' helicopters, tanks, artillery, and munitions which have largely rusted away through lack of attention. 

 Senator WILLESEE - The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: it is correct that the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics provided aid to Indonesia in the form of loans prior to 1966, valued well in excess of $ 1,000m. 
I am not in a position to confirm all the particulars listed at points (a) to (i) but the general suggestion that many of the projects have failed is correct. In several cases, notably the steel mill at Cilegon and the fertiliser plant at Cilacap, the, projects were still under construction when Soviet aid was abruptly terminated. They' were never completed. It is also correct that a large proportion of the military equipment supplied to Indonesia by the Soviet Union is no longer serviceable. However, if it is intended to suggest that Indonesia is not capable of making proper use of external aid, that is 'quite incorrect, as evidenced by the .very large number of projects established  with external  aid in that country which  are  operating well. . 
1 seek leave to make a statement. 
 I have no objection at all to the extra hours but I do object to some of the extra hours, which I presume we are allocating in order to get' through necessary legislation, being taken up by question time'. I have said this before and I say it again: Let us have question time on the normal sitting days but, if we have to sit on Fridays, for the Lord's sake let us be sensible enough hot to have question time on Fridays when we are sitting specifically to pass legislation/ Let us be a bit sensible about the matter. I do not mind the extra hours and I do not think anybody else does. But we are taking up possibly an hour and a half, an hour and a quarter, or more at question time. Let us cut it out on Fridays and get straight down to business. 
 I had no intention of entering into this debate because I was quite happy to abide by the decision that the Senate arrived at the other evening. However, as an independent senator, I do realise how the Government feels. It appears as though the motion that was carried in the Senate the other night was in direct contrast to the practise of the Senate in relation to the establishment of committees and that the Government did not proceed to the nomination of 3 members of the Committee because it felt that something untoward had happened. The motion proposed by the Acting Leader of the Government in the Senate,  Senator Willesee,  would seem to be quite a reasonable proposition but for the fact that it says that the  Chairman  of the Committee should have a casting vote. The Standing Orders provide that the  Chairman  of each select committee shall have  a  deliberative vote only. 
 It says so in the Stand, ing Orders. 
No. The Standing Orders state: 
Every Committee previously to the commencement or Business, shall elect one of its Members to be Chairman, who shall have a Deliberative Vote only. When the Votes are equal the Question shall pass in the negative. 
That seems to me to be quite clear. I was wondering whether the Acting Leader of the Government knew of this when he included in his motion a proposition to the effect that the  Chairman  of the Committee shall have a casting vote. Otherwise his motion appeared to me to be quite fair. As an Independent senator, I have always felt that the purpose of Senate committees was for them to present findings to the Senate and for it to decide whether they should be acted upon. I thought it was entirely up to the Senate to do that. The proposition put forward by  Senator Wright,  and accepted by the Senate, was that a select committee be appointed to inquire into and report upon the justification for the employing of 'MV Straitsman' on a particular service. That Committee's recommendations wi'.l have to come back to the Senate for it to decide whether to act upon them. 
I am trying as an Independent senator to make both sides of the House see a little bit of reason. There was some argument the other night when  Senator Wright  suggested thai  Senator Townley  should be appointed the  Chairman  of the Committee. It was argued that he could be an Independent Liberal senator, which would make things a little awkward. Any one of the Independent senators could be an Independent Liberal, Labor or Country Party senator. It seems to me that we could overcome the deadlock in relation to the membership of this Committee by, if it is possible, bringing in from outside as  Chairman  of the Committee someone who is completely impartial, such as an electoral officer. Electoral officers are not supposed to have political aspirations of any kind. I was under the impression that select committees were appointed to inquire into certain matters and bring down findings on their inquiries in order to save the whole Senate from having to consider them, I understood that a few members of the Senate were appointed to select committees to inquire into these matters and report on them to the Senate in a condensed form. In other words, they could do the hard work. 
Surely we can get over this situation in some way. I understand from members of committees that if any member of a committee disagrees with the findings of the committee - if he has been beaten in a vote of a committee - he can present, an individual report to the Senate. I do not know whether that would be acceptable or whether it would carry any weight. If any member of this Committee disagrees with the findings of the Committee and believes that there has been a wrong vote, he can present an individual report to the Senate and the Senate can make a decision, taking that report into consideration. There are various ways in which we can get over this problem. I understand that one man in this country who is absolutely unaffected by any political considerations is the Chief Electoral Officer. If a deadlock is reached in this Committee, for goodness sake let us call in the Chief Electoral Officer to adjudicate and so get over this problem. Why waste the time of the Senate by continuing to discuss this matter backwards and forwards across the chamber? I do not know whether I have made any contribution to the debate; I have tried to do so. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be left out  (Senator Withers'  amendment)  be  left out. 
I am very happy to support the amendment moved by  Senator Gietzelt  on behalf of the Government. It was quite obvious to me when I introduced a provision in relation to hardship during the last session of the Senate that the majority of members, who voted against it - they were members of the present Opposition - did so because they felt that we should wait until the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations was presented. As mentioned by previous speakers, the Asprey Committee is also looking into the matter of estate duties. I presume that the Senate Select Committee on Finance and Government Operations will be working, in some way or other, in conjunction with the Asprey Committee. So we will have the combined result of the examinations conducted by 2 committees on which to decide in our debate in the future. I support the proposal that the debate on the Bill be postponed for the time being. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - The question is: 
That the words proposed to be omitted be omitted. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- The next question is: 
That the words proposed to be added be added. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- The question now is: 
That the motion,  as  amended, be agreed  to. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
As an Independent, I wish to say a few things about this Bill. The previous  speaker, Senator Greenwood,  has covered quite a few of the points which I had in mind, and I thank him for that. It saves me from mentioning them. I request the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  and the Government to look very carefully at the situation before they commit themselves too heavily. People in Western Australia, particularly in Perth, have natural gas. It took over from coal gas. The coal gas was so much more efficient than the natural gas that it is unbelievable. I am speaking from personal experience. People in the metropolitan area have complained that they are not getting sufficient heat from their heaters or from their gas stoves. I realise that this matter could be something for the future. There is nothing to say that the people of Sydney will willingly accept natural gas when it gets there. They will take it because it is given to them and because there is no way that they can get out of it. But they may have the same opinion as many people in Western Australia have, and that is that the coal gas was far better than the natural gas. Please be careful. 
I suggest to the Government that it tread carefully in relation to the future route of pipelines across Australia. Do not run pipelines aross thousands of miles of desert in the hope that the gas will be used in future. Run them from the nearest field to the major source of usage and see how that works out before you commit yourself at very great expense to 2,000 or 3,000 miles of pipeline that may just lie there. Honourable senators could be called idiots for ever if they passed a Bill which provided for the expenditure of so much of the country's money on something that may just lie there and nOt bc used. I suggest that in the construction of the pipeline from the field in the centre of South Australia to Sydney the Government should have in mind the installation of valves which will be ready to connect to future distribution points but it should not do any connecting until it determines whether the gas is accepted. It must be realised and taken- into consideration that the consumers at present are working successfully and efficiently in their factories and homes on present fuel supplies. The Government will be involving the country in the expenditure of millions more dollars in order to convert the present systems to natural gas. The Government cannot just plug the system in and say that it will work. It will have to change gas jets and heater burners to suit the new fuel as Western Australia did. 
In his second reading speech the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  referred to the fact that the Authority will be required to submit a report with appropriate financial statements annually to the Minister for presentation to the Parliament, but that does not cover the situation carefully enough. I think that those reports should be submitted more frequently so that the Minister can examine them and make his own decisions. I believe it is most important that the layout of the pipeline should be drawn on a map of a Australia, with the idea of reserving country which at the present time is not taken up, so that in the future the Government will not interfere with an individual's personal rights and property. 
I am quite concerned about clause 18 (1) (a) of the Bill which provides that the Authority may enter upon and occupy land after giving not less than 7 days notice in writing to the occupier of the land'. That is not sufficient notice to give to a person who might have been on a block of land for many years. A person 'could find that all of a sudden he is given 7 days notice and then workmen move in with bulldozer, trench diggers and so forth and occupies the property. That is something which we should consider very seriously. I know that the Authority will have the right to buy or lease land from a person, who might not want to sell or lease that land, if the pipeline is to be put through that person's property. I believe that the person should be told that the Gov- eminent will take over that portion of land  6ply  while the pipeline runs through it and that he will have first opportunity to acquire that land back in the future when and if it is no longer required for the pipeline.  do not think we should forget that in constructing 'this pipeline- even from South Australia to Sydney - we will tread on a lot of people's toes. We have to be extremely careful in this regard. The pipeline will not necessarily run alongside railways or major roads, lt might run across people's properties. We must remember that we might have to dig up existing pipelines or culverts. We will interfere with existing services. We will create all the unimaginable things that we do not realise at this stage. Because of this pipeline we will have to cut down trees and people will thoroughly object to this, 1 believe that this question should be considered very carefully. The Government should draw on a map of Australia where it intends the pipeline to go and it should advise the various municipalities and the people in those municipalities what will happen, so that people will have prior warning that this pipeline will run through their properties. It might run through the centre of Jack Smith's block and his 'house might be in the way and have to be demolished. If I had a property and the Government wanted to run a pipeline through my house, I would kick up hell. 
As 1 say, 1 believe that this is something which we have to consider very carefully. 1 do not think that enough consideration has been given to forward planning. The Government is placing authority in someone before it has seen and agreed to the total plan. 1 believe that it is most important that the Government should keep its finger right on the centre of things and understand exactly what is to be done before it allows anyone to have that complete authority. I am only saying what I believe to be the case at the present time. We should tread carefully and not commit ourselves for too much money yet. We should try the system out in sections to see what the reaction is. We should see what happens when natural gas is connected to a city and whether the factories will use it willingly or whether they will complain that they are not getting the same value as previously. If this was a hydro-electric scheme like the schemes being introduced in New Zealand, J would agree with it wholeheartedly because we would be doing something which would give light to the people. But the gas from this pipeline will be used only for power; it cannot be used for light. 
I ask the Government to consider what I have said. Before giving the Pipeline Authority too much power it should find out exactly what they intend to do. I am asking the Senate to remember that we will be committing the country for millions of dollars. One honourable senator said that the pipeline could cost $l,200m. That is a lot of money to put into something which might not work out as we think it will. Let us tread carefully and try a small section at a time. I support the Bill. 
I suggest to  Senator Durack,  the mover of the amendment, that to satisfy the Minister for Works  (Senator Cavanagh)  the words and/or associated equipment and structures pertaining thereto' should be added to the amendment. The Minister for . Works mentioned that this clause relates to pipeline work only. Did  Senator Durack  hear what I said? 
Clause 18 states: 
. notice in writing to the occupier of " the land ... 
I suggest that it should read: 'the owner and the occupier of the land'. I put forward this suggestion because some people who are occupying houses I own would not give a tuppeny damn if someone came along and dug the places up. I think we have to provide for both the owner and the occupier to be notified so that both parties know the situation. Irrespective of what the Minister said on a few occasions tonight, I . wish to convey to him that I do not think the Opposition is trying to delay this measure. I think it is trying to treat it in the way in which we should treat a Bill, namely, with due regard to the fact that without any shadow of doubt the Authority will be interfering with the rights of people. We must protect the rights of people. I would ask the Minister to consider the proposition that in my opinion every suggestion that has been put up tonight by the Opposition has been fair and reasonable. I say that in relation to this part of the clause we must advise not only the occupier of the land, who mostly would not care two hoots about what- happened to the land, but also the owner of the land. 

 - Mr President, I address my question to you or to the Leader of the Government in the Senate, whoever you think is appropriate. I refer to the fact that it was agreed that the Senate should sit at 11 o'clock on Tuesdays, lt is well known by all honourable senators that a fog is usual at this time of the year. Is it not possible for it to be made definite that we sit at 11 o'clock, fog or no fog, so that those who do not travel here on Monday will have no excuse? 

 - Mr President, I ask for leave to make a statement. 
In fairness to all concerned in the Senate, I believe that any questions relating to the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation should now hot be asked in the Senate because there is a Senate committee looking into the whole matter.  Mr President,  I suggest that you should not accept any questions concerning ASIO because if you did you would be overriding what the Senate committee is going to do. 
I preface my question, which I address to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, by saying that it is obvious that many road accidents are caused by inexperienced drivers driving highpowered cars which they should never be allowed to own. Will the Minister introduce a system of graduated licences for drivers so that inexperienced drivers will not be allowed to drive or to own high-powered cars unless they have previously proved, by passing an improved drivers test, that they are capable of controlling a high-powered car? Will the Minister consider introducing a law requiring that the driver's photograph shall be attached to all drivers' licences in order to avoid abuse, that those licences shall be issued on a graduated speed scale, and that each driver must pass a further test before being issued with a higher grade licence? If the Minister decides to introduce graduated licences for drivers will he also include windscreen stickers coloured according to the grade held by drivers? Will the Minister give this matter his urgent attention and by so doing help to reduce deaths on the road. 
 I had no intention of speaking on this Bill but as I am a past registered builder I feel that I can speak with a little authority on the subject. I feel that I should add my contribution to this debate.  Senator Greenwood  has indicated that in some ways people in Victoria will be worse off because of the passage of this Bill. From my private discussions with him I feel that this matter is entirely up to the Victorian Government. The Victorian Government has evidently introduced a scheme whereby it averages out the rentals paid on its housing commission homes. People have to pay the same rental for a home that was built 25 years ago as people pay for a home built today. To me, as a builder, that is crazy. 1 know that a home built 25 years ago would not cost anywhere near the same amount to construct as would a home today. Therefore, people in a more modern home should have to pay, in all sensibility, a higher rental, not only because of the increased value of that home compared with one built 25 years ago but also because of the fact that their salaries have increased. 
I know that these housing commission -homes are allocated only to people on a wage of approximately $80 a week. I would advise anyone on that wage never to try to buy his own home. If he does, he is only making a rod for his own back. I have advised my own son and my own daughter not to buy a home today because of the terrific increase in rates and taxes, and the maintenance costs of a home. A person who rents what I would call a workers home or a home, built by the Government is, in my opinion, paying a very minor rental. The rental on such homes should be set by the Government to allow for the interest which would have to be paid on the money which was borrowed to build that home. No other charges should be made except perhaps for rates, taxes and a small amount of maintenance. Year by year as the home grows older, maintenance costs increase. The costs also increase because of rising wages and higher material costs. 
I understand the Victorian Government has a scheme whereby it averages out the rentals paid on its housing commission homes. As I have said, to me that scheme is crazy. The Victorian Government is treating unfairly all people who started to rent a home 25 years ago. 
 The Victorian Government is treating those people completely unfairly. As far as the housing scheme is con cerned I would say that the Federal Government, through the provisions of this Bill, is advancing money to the States and the States can use that money as they see fit in the construction of homes. In my opinion, the Government's object is to ensure that as many people as possible in the low income group can take the opportunity of renting a home. The Government wants to retain the rental homes for that class of people. 1 know that in Western Australia alone people who many years ago bought what we call workers' homes have sold them at a terrific profit to someone on a higher wage. I know that it is not supposed to happen, but it does. Provided a person does not own another home in Western Australia he can buy a worker's home. That means that people on a higher wage can buy a home which is supposed to be for a person in the low income group. 
A person who starts to buy a home, thinking in ignorance that he might some day own it, is a silly galoot. All be is doing is contributing to the Government because it will take it from him in death taxes in the finish, as long as death taxes remain. That happens all over Australia. A home is not owned until the death taxes are paid. A person may spend all his life paying off his home and all the time he is paying interest on the purchase price of the home which, instead of costing $10,000, will cost $25,000 because of the interest. My son was trying to buy a block of land in Western Australia. He was buying it through a finance company. He was being charged 14 per cent interest. I told him to sell it as soon as he could, even though the price of land is increasing. 
I feel that the present Government is doing a very sensible thing by introducing these Bills. If the Victorian Government feels that a sales rate of 30 per cent from the money provided under the Agreement is not sufficient because it will mean that it will have to increase the rents, as  Senator Greenwood  suggested, it is up to the Victorian Government to have another look at the situation and decide that a home which was built 25 years ago must, in all fairness and reasonableness, should be available on a lower rent than a home built today. It must be so. It cannot be anything else. I have homes which were built at a cost of £875 about 30 years ago. Today the same home is worth $14,000, $15,000 or $16,000. The interest rate alone means that higher rents are inevitable. I would suggest that the Labor Government has in mind trying to help the people in the low income group. It is trying to do that. 1 wish the Opposition would keep quiet and not keep trying to interject. I did not make a noise while  Senator Greenwood  was talking. 1 am trying to be constructive but the Opposition is trying to be obstructive. When they finish,  Mr President,  I will start again. The Minister has said that the interest on the advances will be reduced from 6.5 per cent to approximately 4 per cent. That means that the State governments should be able to reduce their rents, which is a very good thing. From what the previous  speaker, Senator Greenwood,  said, I understand that a certain amount of money can be distributed to building societies. In my opinion, that should be stopped because the building societies are not short of money today. As a matter of fact, a Perth building society has some millions on hand to distribute for home building. The Government should not distribute money to building societies while the societies have that kind of money because they get it from the Government at 4± per cent and they charge  6i  per cent or 7 per cent on their loans. 
 You may be right. I appreciate that the Federal Government is trying to help people in the low income group. I would advise those people to continue to rent homes. Only when they have a higher income can they consider buying a home. If rates, taxes and maintenance are added to the rent of a home, people in the low income group cannot afford it. While they are renting a home from the housing commission or whatever it is in the various States, that authority is responsible for the rates, taxes and maintenance of the borne. Therefore all that a person who is renting a home has to do is water and cut the lawns and look after the gardens. They do not have to pay for maintenance of a home which is rented from authorities which are supplied with finance by the Government. I know because I built many of these homes many years ago. I built many good homes. They are very good homes. The Government maintains the homes. Persons renting a home pay .to rates, taxes or maintenance. Anyone in the low income group who tries to buy such a home is not right in the head, although it is nice to own one's own home. I well remember when I built my first home. I proudly told my brother, who was a Quean's Counsel, that I had just finished paying for my home. He said: 'You damn fool. Don't ever try to pay for your own home'. 
 I agree that it was a bad deal. At that time I thought he was crazy. He said: 'Owe money if you can, but do not buy something and own it because as sure as eggs, if you own it, someone will take it from you'. I fought against that over the years. Today I own a few homes. But I am telling the Senate that owning a home is not all beer and skittles. You have to pay out money continuously. I strongly support the Government's Bill. To those honourable senators who have been talking on behalf of Victoria 1 say: 'Go back to your State and tell your State Government to fall into a sensible line and to charge rents according to today's value.' 
 I want to introduce a little logic into this debate. Honourable senators opposite who are now interjecting should listen. They might hear something to their advantage. What is a home and land belonging to the Victorian Housing Commission worth? Is it possible to buy such a home for  $14,000,  or is it  $16,000? 
All right.  Senator Greenwood  said in his speech that in Victoria the Housing Commission charges a rental of  $12.30  a week, on average. Making a calculation at the lowest rate of interest which the Commonwealth allows to these people - that is  4  per cent - it would cost them  $560  a year in interest alone. Rental of  $12.30  a week equals  $650  a year. Therefore they are left with the large sum of  $90  a year from which to pay rates, taxes and maintenance costs. I turn now to a home costing  $16,000,  which is the average price of a home and land in the cities throughout Australia. Annual interest at  4  per cent is  $640,  leaving purchasers with the magnificent sum of  $10  a year from which to pay rates, taxes and maintenance costs. Yet  Senator Greenwood  tells us that  it  is wise for those people to buy their homes. 
The people in Victoria should be told the facts as I have just told them to the Senate. As a builder I have had to explain to people how much interest they would have to pay if they bought their own homes. The people about whom  Senator Greenwood  is talking would be in their homes for a lifetime and would never do any more than pay interest on them, yet they are supposed to be buying them. They would never own a home. 
As an independent senator I would like to say a few words on this matter. I believe, as  Senator Davidson  pointed out, that the Bill commences in the right terms. It says: 
Be it enacted by the Queen, the Senate and the House of Representatives of Australia. 
I do not see anything wrong with the oath of allegiance because, after all, people are becoming citizens of Australia. There may possibly be some confusion as to whether they owe their allegiance to the Queen or to the Constitution of Australia. When one has to fill out an application for a passport one never knows whether to describe oneself as Australian' or 'British'. We are supposed to be British subjects holding Australian passports. Candidly, I think it is very confusing, especially for someone from another country. If a person who proposes to become a citizen of Australia and who has to swear an oath of allegiance looks at the Act he will find that the Queen is mentioned in it. I cannot see anything wrong with the clause and I will support the Government. 
I address my question without notice to the Minister representing the Postmaster-General. I preface my question by saying that it is a well known fact that many hundreds, perhaps thousands, of Australians have complained about ridiculous telephone accounts and that they have had no redress from the Department. In view of the recent statement by the Postmaster-General that meters for private telephones will be available within 12 months to enable private citizens to keep a check on the number of calls made by them at home, and that these meters are being made available because thousands of Australians have complained that they are being grossly overcharged by the Postmaster-General's Department, will the Minister give the public an assurance that refunds will be made to all those who have complained of overcharging? Further, if the home meters prove that the Postal Department's accounts were completely haywire, as  many of us think they were, wilt the public have to pay for the installation of these meters when they are available? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security. Does the Minister know that many shirkers and loafers are collecting unemployment benefits and are in fact liabilities on the community? Does he know that many of them are giving fictitious names and addresses and may even be receiving more than one allocation of unemployment benefit? Does he know that they are practising all kinds of lurks to beat the system, to avoid work and, by so doing, to become listed as unemployed when in fact they do not want to work while it is so easy to obtain unemployment benefits? Does a person applying for unemployment benefit have to produce positive identification? If not, will the Minister advise whether some method of positive identification can be introduced forthwith? Is there a Federal head office or register that keeps all records of unemployed persons throughout Australia who are receiving unemployment benefit? Do the States transmit their records to that central office so that up to date records are kept and referred to before any payment is made? If there is no central head office, how can the 
Minister be certain that some persons are not moving from State to State to receive unemployment benefits permanently as they are obviously doing at present? 
 - Sometimes I am very thankful that the people of Western Australia used their good judgment to elect me to the Senate as an Independent. Since I have been in this House I have seen nothing except the Party in Opposition doing its best to delay all good, had or indifferent business which has come before the Senate. Those remarks apply to the former Opposition and the present Opposition. I am sick and tired of what goes on in this Senate. I thought that we were put here by the people to try to make laws for the people. 
I withdraw that, but I will say that it is obvious to me from the way things have been going on in this chamber recently that the Opposition is doing nothing else but adopting delaying tactics. I would not object to anyone on the Opposition side rising and offering constructive criticism and putting forward constructive amendments. I instance what happened recently. A member of the Opposition rose the other night and his first few words were: 'I oppose this Bill, but I will support it'. He then talked for  45  minutes on what he did not like about the Bill and, when the vote was taken, he voted for the Bill. That, to me, is hypocrisy. I would say that  Senator Gair  hit the nail right on the head. Too much repetition occurs in debates here. Time and time again I have sat here and watched members of the Opposition - whichever Party may have been in opposition al the time - say word for word what the  speaker  who has just resumed his seat had said. A good debater should cross any points which he wished to make off his list if a preceding  speaker  has dealt with them and should speak shortly and to the point if he has new material to introduce to a debate. As members of the Parliament, honourable senators are elected to try to present to the people what they consider to be the best possible changes that can be made through legislation. It is our job to do that. I am one who is opposed to the Senate rising this week. I would be prepared for the Senate to sit until the end of June, if necessary. We are paid by the people. Let the Senate sit until the end of June provided we are doing things constructively. Let u.( do our business in the right way. Nearly every senator in this chamber wants to return to his home State. Honourable senators are like the horse going home for his tucker. But honourable senators must remember, please, that they are being paid by the people to make the laws of this country. I am sure that the present Government does not consider that it always produces perfect laws and that it is prepared to listen to amendments put forward on reasonable grounds provided that those amendments are proposed for the proper reasons - that is, they are being introduced for and on behalf of the people. I ask the Opposition to remember that it is not here purely and simply to hinder this Government in its operations. The Opposition is here to try to make the Government work. I am an Independent. I do not care a tuppenny dash which Party is in power; I consider that each Party should be given a fair go and a reasonable chance to produce laws. I say to the people here and now: If you want the Parliament to work properly, put some more Independents in it. 
Then there would not be so much of this tommy rot that goes on. I ask the Leader of the Government to decide that we will sit next week, if necessary, provided that the  President  of the Senate ensures that honourable senators do not stand up and repeat what the preceding  speaker  said. 
I address my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. On 3 May I asked the Minister whether he would introduce legislation to make the wearing of crash helmets compulsory for drivers and front seat passengers in order to reduce head injuries in road accidents. I was never more serious than when I posed that question. The Government insists on motor cyclists wearing crash helmets. If people in motor cars think they have any more protection in a motor car than they would have on a motor cycle they have another think coming because the modern  car just crushes on impact. The Minister's reply, which was printed in all the major newspapers, was: 
To date, no evidence has been found to support such legislation. In fact, it is possible that  helmet  could increase injuries such as neck injuries. 
I would like to explain further that crash helmets have to be made- 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Wilkinson)  - It is your question that we want to hear. 
All right, I shall pose the question. I ask what further evidence is necessary or required than the following: The controlling bodies of motor sport throughout the world will not allow any competitor to drive in any event under their control unless that competitor wears a crash helmet of approved design and manufacture. CAMS, the Confederation of Australian Motor Sport, is the Australian body and the FIA, the Federation Internationale de 1'Automobile, is the world controller. If these controlling bodies insisted on crash helmets being compulsory long before they made seat belts compulsory, on what basis did the Minister make his reply? In view of this important evidence, which is easily obtainable, I ask the Minister to contact these 2 bodies and urgently reconsider this important matter and answer accordingly. 
Does the Leader of the Government in the Senate agree that all members of Parliament are elected by the people to act for the people and in the best interests of Australia as a whole? Does he feel that all new legislation to be introduced by the present Government will be accepted by the majority of the people? If any legislation has passed the House of Representatives, does that necessarily mean that the Senate should pass the same legislation without query or does he agree that the Senate, being a House of review, should re-examine such legislation and introduce changes if it is thought necessary? Does he consider that all members of this House have the best interests of the people of Australia, and Australia, at heart as their first and only consideration or does he feel that many moves or changes made or suggested by the Opposition are purely party or political moves, made not necessarily to improve the legislation, not with the interests of Australia and the people as a first consideration, but purely for political gain? Does he agree that all legislation should be the best that this Parliament as a whole can produce? If he does agree, will he convey to the Government these views and request that all proposed changes be examined carefully before being rejected as not acceptable? Will he publicly ask the Opposition in the Senate whether all moves made by it to change any legislation brought before this House are made for and on behalf of and in the best interests of Australia and the Australian people? 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Wilkinson)  - I think the question is in order. 
asked the Minister repre senting the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Does the Minister accept the projection that nearly 100,000 Australians will be killed or injured this year, as a result of road accidents. 
Does this represent a death rate of nearly ten persons per day. (3)Does the Minister agree that, as the Government has spent millions of dollars on improving roads and made compulsory the introduction of certain safety features into motor vehicles, and despite all that has been done, the shocking death and accident rate  has  continued and will permanently remain, unless the real causes of accidents, the drivers, are corrected. 
If inefficient drivers were prevented from driving motor vehicles would there be no accidents. 
If the Minister does  agree,  will he inform the Senate as to why all the Government's efforts and money are not concentrated on teaching and improving driver skills: if such efforts are not made, is it because persons are (a) afraid to face the facts, or (b) afraid that drivers would not like to be told that they are the cause of accidents. 
Will the Minister announce that, in future, the Government will concentrate on driver education and re-training and re-testing of all inefficient drivers. 

 Senator CAVANAGH-The Minister for Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
There is every indication that the number of persons killed and injured in 1973 will be less than 100,000. The total for 1970 was 95,352 and for 1971 it was 94,626; there are indications that it will be even lower for 1972 although final figures are not yet available. 
It would. 
In terms of the number of deaths in relation to vehicles on the road, the present rate is only twothirds of what it was twenty years ago. Furthermore, road accidents are rarely caused by a single factor. They represent failures in a complex transport system involving the vehicle, the road, the driver and his social environment. 
Although the driver may appear primarily to be at fault in many accidents, there is clear evidence that in the shorter term making the road and/or vehicle safer is often cheaper and more effective in reducing both the incidence and severity of accidents than are attempts to modify human behaviour. 
If the 'inefficient' driver is to be identified by his involvement in an accident, the research evidence suggests that only a small number are likely to have another accident in the following few years. Consequently, many drivers would be penalised inequitably if such an approach was used. 
In part the aims of probationary licences and points demerit systems are to remove grossly inefficient drivers from the road, albeit temporarily. The evidence suggests that a very small proportion of accidentinvolved drivers are identified by these measures. 
Another way of identifying potentially 'inefficient' drivers is through the licensing test. However, there is some evidence that a test sufficiently difficult to exclude'inefficient' drivers would also exclude a considerable number of drivers who would not fall into this category. 
Not all accidents are caused by irresponsible or incompetent drivers though these groups may make a disproportionate contribution. Other drivers, normally skilful and prudent, may become involved in accidents through a momentary lapse of concentration or as a result of a combination of road and environmental conditions and hazards with which they are unable to cope. 
See (4). 
The Australian Government has decided thatit must involve itself more directly in a more vigorous, co-ordinated and multi-disciplinary approach to road safety at the national level. 
It has decided to do five main things re-appoint the Select Committee on Road Safety in co-operation with the States, undertake a program of improvements at locations where accidents keep occurring establish a central information service for those working in road safety increase the technical and other resources devoted to vehicle safety, traffic codes, education and publicity and road safety research re-appoint the Expert Group on Road Safety. 
As part of a comprehensive research program being carried out by my Department, and planned for the future, the following projects which focus on the role of the road user in accidents are included 
A Sociological Study of Drivers Involved in Serious Accidents 
A Feasibility Study for Evaluating the Effectiveness of Defensive Driving Courses 
Effects of Severe Penalties on Road Safety 
Effectiveness of Licence Suspension 
Road User-Behaviour as it Relates to Accidents 
Effectiveness of Television Filmsin Reducing Accidents. 
I rise to indicate that I will support the proposed amendment. I believe it is wise that we should look at this matter in the light of what has been said by the 2 previous speakers. As honourable senators know, recently I was in a position similar to that which they outlined. Usually one can make an application to the appropriate authorities to appoint a nominee if one wants a partner to accompany one to a parliamentary function or to Parliament House. I am sure that all honourable senators will agree with me when I say that one's mother or father deserves definite consideration, but if they have passed on I believe that a single member of Parliament should be able to nominate a person in his family to be his dependant, as it were. I think that a member who has spent many years in Parliament deserves consideration in this regard and that he should be able to nominate a person in his family. 
I realise that. I also realise that provision is made for a lump sum payment, equivalent to what a member has paid but that is not sufficient. If a pension is paid to the dependant of a married person, a pension should be paid to the dependant of a single person. Therefore, I will support the proposed amendment. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Are hundreds of jobs advertised daily in Australian newspapers. 
Is a large proportion of these advertisements repeated day after day without reply. 
Do many applicants for vacant positions turn them down; if so, is a major reason for this the ease with which unemployment benefits can be obtained. 
How many unemployed are there in Australia, and at what rate is this number growing. 
Can a person still obtain unemployment benefits after he has refused to accept an offer of employment. 
If a suitable offer is made to an applicant for unemployment benefits, and it is refused, what response is made by Government employment officers with respect to the retention of such benefits. 
Do many high school leavers appear disinterested in obtaining employment; if so, is a main reason for this the fact that unemploymment benefits are easily obtainable by school leavers and that the benefits received are more than sufficient for their needs. 
Are records kept by the Department of Social Security to show (a) how long persons have been receiving unemployment benefits, (b) how many jobs each applicant has been sent, and (c) how many jobs each applicant has either refused or remained in tor a short time only. 
Will the Minister consider changing the provisions of the relevant legislation to ensure that the working section of the community is not subsidising loafers' by unemployment benefits. 
Will the Minister consider amending the relevant legislation to ensure that a certain amount of community, council or shire work must be done before a person can receive unemployment benefits. 
Will the Minister prepare figures, and table them at an early date, to show (a) how many people are receiving unemployment benefits throughout Australia, and (b) how long each person has received such benefits, in order to segregate the 'loafers' from the genuine unemployed. 

 Senator DOUGLAS MCCLELLAND- The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
I am not in a position to comment on the degree to which job vacancies advertised in the Nation's newspapers move. The Government's economic policies have achieved their object by bringing a sharp turnabout in the previous high unemployment rates. Concurrent with the return of confidence in the economy has been an increase in job vacancies. 
I am not in a position to comment. 
I have no evidence which would support this view. 
Details of the number of persons registered for employment with the Commonwealth Employment 
Service are published monthly by the Department of Labour. Figures recently released by the Department of Labour for April 1973 showed that since March 1973 the total number of persons registered with the Commonwealth Employment Service declined by 3,682 to 80.903. (5 and 6) To be eligible to receive unemployment benefit a person must be capable of undertaking and willing to undertake suitable employment. A claimant will generally be regarded as having refused or failed without good and sufficient reason to accept an offer of employment if he is unwilling to accept and perform work offered to him in his usual occupation or of an equivalent kind and in such an event his entitlement to unemployment benefit is withdrawn. Work of an equivalent kind is work of atype or nature in which the person usually engages and in which the person's experience, qualifications and training would be used. The decision as to a person's eligibility for unemployment benefit rests with my Department. 
I am not aware that high school leavers are more or less disinterested in obtaining employment than in previous years. The Minister for Labour would be better informed on this than I am. However the Honourable  Senator will  be interested to learn that school leavers and others not previously engaged in employment, and those seeking to rejoin the work force after some time will generally be regarded as having refused or failed without good and sufficient reason to accept an offer of employment if unwilling to accept and perform workoffered which is in keeping with their personal preference, abilities, aptitudes or experience, qualifications and training. (8a) The record of each beneficiary shows the length of time he has been in receipt of benefit. 8(b) and (c) The 'work test', which involves the process of registering claimants for employment, seeking suitable work for them, determining whether they are prepared to accept the offer of such work, etc., is administered by the Commonwealth Employment Service of the Department of Labour. Detailed information about records maintained on the operation of the 'work test' is accordingly a matter for that Department. 
There is no case for changing the provisions of the relevant legislation. This Government believes that it is thoroughly unjust that conscientious wage and salary earners cast into unemployment by the wilfully applied policies of the previous Government should have to suffer severe financial disadvantage. Before this Government increased rates of unemployment benefits, a man with a wife and two children received a rate of unemployment benefit which was $18 below the updated poverty level set by the Institute of Applied Economic Research in Melbourne. 
If there is community, council of shire work available and presumably the honourable member has in mind payment for such work at full award rates, then the people engaged in this work would not be unemployed nor entitled to unemployment benefits. 
Weekly statistics in respect of the number of people receiving unemployment benefits are maintained in the Department of Social Security and are available on request. Details of the number of people receiving unemployment benefit at the Saturday nearest the end of the month are published in the Monthly Review of the Employment Situation, issued by the Department of Labour. Quarterly surveys of the characteristics of unemployment benefit recipients are carried out by the Department of Social Security. The results of these surveys, which include information about how long people have been in receipt of unemployment benefit, are available on request. 
It should be pointed out to the Honourable,  Senator that  it woud be a very wrong conclusion to assume that people in receipt of unemployment benefits for a given period or longer are in his terms 'loafers'. They may well be people with family responsibilities who for a number of valid reasons have limited labour mobility. Residents of certain rural areas would certainly fit into this category. Again, there may be people with personal or social problems which interfere with their capacity to fit into the work force. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Is a person who applies for unemployment benefits required to produce positive identification; if not, will the Minister introduce such a system immediately. 
Does the central administration of the Department of Social Services keep a register of all persons throughout Australia who are in receipt of unemployment benefits. 
Do all the State offices of the Department transmit their records to the central administration so that up-to-date records are kept and referred to, before any unemployment benefits are paid to claimants. 
If the answer to (3) is in the negative, how can the Minister be certain that some persons are not moving from State to State to keep on receiving unemployment benefits. 
Is the Minister aware that many persons are using a variety of techniques to beat the social services system, are avoiding work and, by so doing, are becoming listed as unemployed when, in actual fact, they do not want to work and are a liability on the community because it is so easy to obtain unemployment benefits. 
Is the Minister further aware that many persons are giving fictitious names and addresses to the Department and, by so doing, are receiving more than one allocation of unemployment benefits. 

 Senator DOUGLAS McCLELLAND- The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
An applicant for unemployment benefit is required to identify himself and to supply certain personal particulars which may be used for positive identification. In the interests of protection of public moneys it would not be advisable to disclose details of checking procedures applied within the Department of Social Security. 
No. 
No. 
Interstate movement does not affect eligibility for unemployment benefit. Conditions of eligibility include that a person must be capable of undertaking and willing to undertake suitable employment. 
I am not aware of any such problem and certainly not of the proportions suggested by the honourable senator. People who fail to accept a reasonable offer of employment are ineligible to receive unemployment benefit. 
From time to time, cases where benefit is claimed in more than one name are detected. The incidence of such cases is quite small. Appropriate action, including prosecution where the circumstances of the case so warrant, is taken upon detection. It is considered that all reasonable steps are being taken to prevent dual or fraudulent claims for unemployment benefit. 
I had no intention of talking on this measure. But having listened with great interest to everything that has been said by all previous speakers, I feel that those honourable senators who are supporting these amendments are indicating that they do not really want the death penalty abolished. I think the death penalty is a deterrent. It is very seldom used; the courts and the judges see to that. I think we are wrong even to be considering removing the death penalty. I consider that it should remain in force so that it may be used by the judiciary if it wants it used. As for these amendments, I will support them because they have been put forward by men who, I believe, really do not want the death penalty abolished. Penalties for crimes today are far too lenient and the sooner we wake up to that fact the better we will be.  1  will support these amendments; in fact I will be voting against abolition of the death penalty. 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. I preface my question by saying that in its magazine the Royal Autombile Club of Western Australia has reproduced a photograph of a 45 mph or miles per hour road sign and the 75 kph or kilometres per hour road sign which is being prepared to replace it. People are used to reading signs which suggest that they should negotiate bends at, say, 45 mph. If those signs are to be replaced with 75 kpm signs there will be a lot more accidents on the roads. 
Does the Minister representing the Minister for Health know that there has been an apparently serious outbreak of cholera on the island of Mindanao in the Philippines, 3 miles from the city of Davao? Does he know that more than 1,000 cases have already been reported and that thousands of people on foot and in vehicles are jamming the roads to the hospital in Davao city in an effort to receive injections against the disease or be treated for the disease? Because many international aircraft and ships come to Australia via Manila, will the Minister make immediate and urgent inquiries to see whether the Philippine health authorities have sufficient vaccine, staff and facilities to carry out the necessary innoculations and treatment? Will he also inquire to see whether Australia could give some assistance, if necessary, by providing medical teams and serum? Will he take immediate action to ensure that all ports of entry into Australia are alerted in order to protect us from the possibility of a similar outbreak in Australia? 
I feel that I should speak on the social services legislation in reference to a particular part to which I have drawn attention during question time. At the request of the  President  I have got down to the question. I am referring to the unemployment benefit. Many honourable senators in this chamber will have heard, as I have, and if they have checked as I have checked they will have found, that many people in Australia are taking a mean advantage of the unemployment benefit. They are not truly unemployed. They are polers and shirkers, and we are encouraging them. Simple support is lent to this by  Sir Charles  Court, Leader of the Opposition in 
Western Australia. When I spoke to him about this matter he advised me that there were known to be 400 serfies in Western Australia who were living on unemployment benefits and who had no intention of working. He said that nothing could be done about it. This is because the Government will not clamp down. The present Government has eased the problem for those who are unemployed at present by saying that they have to take only the job they nominate. In my opinion anyone who is unemployed should be prepared to take any reasonable job that is offering- otherwise he is not truly unemployed. I object very much to people accepting money from the Government under false pretences as some are doing today. I sincerely trust that the Government will look at this situation and tighten it up. 
I have checked this matter very carefully and have discovered that the officers in the unemployment section of the Department do not check on those who say they are unemployed. They do not check when they send a person to a job to see whether he turned up for the job, whether he would accept the job or whether he was reasonably dressed for the job. Sometimes applicants make darned sure that they do not get the job they were sent for. This is completely wrong. 
That may be so, and perhaps some are. Perhaps the honourable senator is in that category. For the information of the Senate, there is not a central register in which the unemployed throughout the States of Australia are entered so that the Commonwealth Government, before it pays unemployment benefits, can check to see how long a person has been unemployed. I feel sure that if this were done, if we had a central register and a system of issuing to each person who applied for an employment benefit an identity card with his photograph and showing his correct address the problem could be reduced. I have been told, and I believe it, that some people are collecting more than one unemployment benefit, sometimes 3, by using fictitious names and addresses. We are allowing people to do this, but we should clamp down on this practice. 
Only the other day on my way back from a New South Wales country town I called into a rural property and was advised that shearers, who are well known to be men who work only for a season but who earn enough money in that season to keep them for the whole 12 months, are usually posted an unemployment benefit application to fill in as soon as the shearing season finishes. They fill it in, claim the unemployment benefit and get it. I do not say that this does happen, but if it does happen I object to it. This kind of thing is going on everywhere. The figures at present show that only 65,000 are unemployed and that some 76,000 jobs are vacant. This proves to me that the people who are unemployed are not truly unemployed. I have heard men with families say that it is ridiculous to work because they can get $60 a week unemployment benefits and only $55 a week if they work. I believe them. They are in front by not working. The Government is allowing this to go on. I sincerely trust that the Government will look into this situation and tighten the system. I feel that anyone who is unemployed should take any reasonable job offered to him until such time as his type of work turns up. If he is not prepared to do that he is not unemployed. I feel that I have said enough. I will support the Bill with those reservations. 
Has the Minister representing the Treasurer noted that in its Budget announced yesterday the New South Wales Government lifted the death tax exemption for members of an immediate family from $30,000 to $50,000? Did he notice that in its recent Budget the Victorian Government doubled its exemption, lifting the amount from $12,000 to $24,000? Does the Minister know that the exemptions in the other 4 States range from as low as $12,000 in South Australia to $20,000 in Queensland? Does he realise that such exemptions are far too low and have no regard to the increased valuations on properties? Will he consider giving financial assistance to the States with low exemptions to enable them to lift their exemption to $50,000 before death taxes are applied. 
-by leave-  Mr President,  I knew  Senator Prowse  for only a short time. Even though I am a West Australian, I tell honourable senators candidly that I had not really heard of him until I came into the Senate. As a matter of fact, on my first trip across to Canberra- I had asked for special permission to come over here to see what the Senate was like-  Senator Prowse  touched me on the arm as 1 walked down the aisle of the aircraft. He said to me: 'Your name is Negus isn't it. My name is Prowse. ' I said to him: 'Should I know you?' I sat on the arm rest of his seat and said to him: 'I might be sitting alongside you in the Senate soon'. He said: 'Not on your life; not a chance'. I am very proud of the fact that I had that meeting with  Senator Prowse.  I feel that he was one of the senators who fought hard to try to have death taxes removed. I have spent many hours in his office and he has willingly given me much help and information. I feel that he is a man with whom we all should be very proud to have been associated. 
I am glad for his sake that he has taken a decision to retire before it is too late. Many of us wait too long and retire too late and we are then carried out. I hear some laughter but I do not think that it is a joke. We are all idiots in that way. We all work for too long. I congratulate  Senator Prowse  very sincerely on his decision to retire. I sincerely trust that he and his wife will enjoy many years ahead of them. 

 - Mr President, I address my question to you with deference. Just a few minutes ago I was refused leave to address the Senate. I draw your attention to the fact that on many occasions the Leader of the Opposition has moved many notices of motion without any interference from you and yet a few minutes ago you distinctly said that according to standing order 1 1 3 no senator shall give more than 2 consecutive notices of motion. It often happens, as 
Standing Orders will prove, that more than one notice of motion has been given by honourable senators, and it appears so on the notice paper. 
I would like to have a few words to say on this. This is the Bill we are discussing and will vote on, is it not? 

 -Mr President - 
I would appreciate it if you would hear me out. 
It makes it so awkward because I was going to mention the fact that this matter was supposed to go before the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. 
At this stage I register my complete objection to the increase in unemployment benefits. I think it is wrong that they should be increased at this time. From recent announcements in the Press by the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  and the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  it is obvious that they have finally taken notice of some of the statements which I have made in the past about slackers, loafers and shirkers. They have finally admitted that there are slackers, loafers and shirkers. The Government should take strict action to make these people work. At this stage there should be no unemployment in Australia. In my opinion, there is absolutely no excuse for anyone to be receiving unemployment benefits. Those who receive such benefits are absolute shirkers. Therefore, I do not want to agree to the increase in the unemployment benefits. I asked the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Greenwood)  whether I could move an amendment at this stage to ensure that that clause was deleted. I received a notice that time would not permit; that the Bill would be held up. 
I do not mind. I register my objection to this part of the Bill. I do not think we should be increasing unemployment benefits at this stage. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 

 - Mr Acting Deputy President, I feel that as a Western Australian I must have a little to say on the Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill. The reason I feel I should talk on this Bill is that I know as a Western Australian that we in Western Australia had no real industrial organisations until we attracted outside capital. I know that the present Premier elect of Western Australia,  Sir Charles  Court, did a terrific job travelling overseas after he had tried in Australia to attract internal capital for industrial organisations in Western Australia. As a result of his efforts British Petroleum established a refinery at Kwinana. A previous  speaker  referred to the Commonwealth Oil Refineries Ltd and said that it was run by the Government and taken over by British Petroleum. I was employed by British Petroleum at that time. The Commonwealth Oil Refineries was only a marketing company. It was engaged purely in selling petroleum products. It did not know anything about exploration or finding petroleum products. 
I know that during the last War when there was the Brisbane Line or whatever it was called, we Western Australians would gladly have given the north-west of Western Australia to anyone who wanted it. He would have been welcome to it, because as far as we were concerned it was worthless. No one was prepared to go up there. There was no water and living conditions were impossible. But again the Premier elect of Western Australia attracted overseas capital to the extent that millions of dollars were spent in the north-west of Western Australia. This resulted in Australia, with a production of 62,500,000 metric tons, being placed third on the list of iron ore producing countries. During the downturn in wheat and wool sales it was only the iron ore exports that helped Australia to survive and, as a Western Australian, I am very proud of that. 
I know that what has been said by some previous speakers is quite correct, that there has been a drastic reduction in exploration work throughout Australia and particularly in the north-west of Western Australia. My recently deceased daughter was a friend of an expert on one of the oil rigs which moved from Western Australia to Manila. From talking to that man I know that it takes years to become an expert on an oil rig. We in Australia need time to produce the men and the rigs capable of doing these things. It is all very well for the Government to say: 'Let us take this over ourselves', but it is too big a job at the present time. As a Western Australian I know that  Sir Charles  Court could not attract the money from within Australia- from any State government or from the Federal Government- to commence the industries which have been established in Western Australia. Outside capital was needed. 
That is entirely up to the Government; it can still do that. I refer to a report from the Australian Mining Industry Council. It states: 
Quite rightly, control of Australia's resources rests with the Australian and State Governments. 
Every stage of the mining industries operations is subject to detailed Government control. 
This control is exercised through the granting, renewal or cancellation of exploration licences, their size and term, the amount which must be spent; the granting of and the terms and conditions attaching to production leases; the level of royalties; exports, including prices, products and destinations and many other facets of marketing; the amount of taxation payable. 
Further on the report states: 
Even with 100 per cent overseas ownership of a company engaged in mineral production, overseas control may be zero if governments so determine. 
Obviously if this report is correct- and I believe that we must accept a report from the Australian Mining Industry Council- the present Government and previous governments have had power to control any exploration in Australia. We are still a young country, and I think that it is beyond the present capacity of the Australian people to contribute the millions of dollars necessary for oil exploration. We cannot even provide sufficient finance to protect our own coastline. We have not got sufficient warships or patrol vessels to protect our own coastline. How can we afford to carry out exploration work? 
All the companies engaged in the oil field in Australia are here only because they have been able to make a profit. It was entirely up to the Australian Government to control the amount of profit that they made or sent out of Australia. I believe that the Government, in introducing this Bill, is trying in all sincerity to do something that it thinks is right for the Australian people. 
-Wait until I am finished. Last Saturday the people of Western Australia, by their vote, gave me an indication of their feelings about the present mining and petroleum policies, and I believe that I am only expressing and supporting those views at this time. It is quite obvious from the results of the elections in Western Australia last Saturday that the people of Western Australia are not very happy with the present situation. I am an independent senator, but I believe that both sides of this chamber believe that they are doing the right thing- the Government by introducing this Bill to control mineral resources, and the Opposition by opposing the Bill. But obviously the Government has not realised that it already had control of Australia's mineral resources. All it needs to do is to apply that control in the right manner. 1 do not want to talk for any longer period. I believe that Western Australia owes its present industrialisation, iron ore production and a lot of other production to the external capital that has come into Australia. We should realise very sincerely that we have not got the financial, expert or any other capacity to carry out our own exploration work in Australia. I support the Opposition in opposing this Bill. 
I address my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I preface it by saying that I am hopping mad over a report in one of the Sydney newspapers this morning. I refer to the report in the newspaper- I will not name the paper- and I ask the Leader of the Government: Have you ever approached me at any time, offering me the Presidency of the Senate? Is it not a fact that the  President  of the Senate can be elected only by a majority vote of the Senate? If that is a fact, should not the news media be rapped over the knuckles for printing such a ridiculous story? 
As my name was mentioned by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  I would like to give an explanation of why I just voted against the Government. From memory, this Bill was brought forward yesterday. Apparently the 109 amendments proposed were not set out in an order that could be readily understood and it was suggested that the debate be postponed. Now the amendments have been brought forward again today. I received from a member of the Opposition the information that the 109 amendments were set out in dark black type, but I cannot find them in dark black type. I was absent from the Senate attending the United Nations in New York when the Trade Practices Bill was brought in last year. I understand that this is the same legislation that the previous Attorney-General was trying to get around to doing something about. It was unfortunate that he did not get around to doing anything about it, perhaps because he was awfully busy on other matters. I seem to recall that when we discussed this legislation previously it came out that no matter what we did to it something would still be wrong with it. 
I think that applies to a lot of the Bills that are passed in this Parliament. Someone can always pick faults in legislation we pass. I feel that the present Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  has done his best to amend the Trade Practices Act. At least he has tried to do something and we should endeavour to help him to put the amendments through. I venture to say that very few senators could understand whether the Trade Practices Act is any good without the proposed amendments. I understood from the previous Attorney-General that it was no good and that we could pick holes in it everywhere. Obviously we could pick holes in the amendments, but how many of us would know whether the amendments are right, wrong or indifferent? Let us give the Attorney-General a go. Let us give him a chance of having debated what we think is wrong with the amendments and let us try in the very near future to have the Bill put through. 
I address my question to you,  Mr President.  If the proposition in the question put by  Senator Townley  is correct, would it not have been the responsibility of the occupant of the chair, whoever he was, to notify the Senate that there was a stranger in the House and that the stranger should be removed? 
I will endeavour to put my views as an independent senator who is not a member of any political party and I sincerely trust that they will be accepted as such. If I were qualified to be a judge and the matter came before me in court I would make exactly the same decision. I would have to examine 2 sections of the Constitution, especially if they were drawn to my attention. The first provision is sub-section (iv.) of section 44, which states: 
Any person who- 
Holds any office of profit under the Crown, or any pension payable during the pleasure of the Crown out of any of the revenues of the Commonwealth . . . shall be incapable of being chosen or of sitting as a senator or a member of the House of Representatives. 
The second provision is sub-section (iii.) of section 45, which states: 
If a senator or member of the House of Representatives- 
Directly or indirectly takes or agrees to take any fee or honorarium for services rendered to the Commonwealth or for services rendered in the Parliament to any person or State . . . his place shall thereupon become vacant. 
The note alongside section 45 states: 
Vacancy on happening of disqualification. 
In my opinion after examination of those provisions  Senator Gair  disqualified himself from sitting in this House by the fact that he did accept a position from the Parliament as an ambassador. That appointment has been verified by the Governor-General of Australia whose signature appears on the appropriate document. The Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Withers)  in his wisdom has stated that  Senator Gair  had not resigned.  Senator Gair  had no chance to resign because he disqualified himself from holding the position of senator immediately he was accepted as an ambassador. I have been a senator for only a few years and in that time I have noted- I do not think anyone would deny it- that this chamber is run on party political lines, much to my disgust. If the Senate were to try to reach a conclusion on this issue it would be decided on party politics. If it were agreed to put an even number of members of the major parties on each side of the House and to appoint a completely independent  chairman  a fair result might be gained; but as long as there are uneven numbers of representatives of the political parties in this chamber there will be a result which nobody could honestly accept as unbiased. That must be realised. 
As an independent senator I would like to believe that we could get an unbiased result but we all know that we could not. We owe it to the Senate not to be put in a position where we have to decide this matter. If we do, many people will point a finger at us and say: 'That was not a fandecision '. We have always tried to be fair in our decision in the Senate. Let us stick to that policy and that way of working. We must not let it be said that this issue was decided by party politics. We know that there are some sticky aspects of this matter that we do not like. It is not the first time that this has happened. They tell me that that is politics. That is why I do not very much like any part of politics. I did not wish to be a politician, but here I am. I am trying to give an unbiased and independent opinion. With an even number of members on each side of the chamber and 3 judges appointed to cast their deciding votes we could achieve a fair result, but not otherwise. We would be doing the wrong thing if we decided this issue in the Senate. 
No one can accurately predict the result if 5 or 6 senators are to be elected in Queensland because the people themselves will vote on that. They will make that decision. Who knows? Perhaps 5 or 6 Liberals would be elected, or 5 or 6 independent or Country Party senators. We must not make the decision here because it could never properly be termed unbiased. That result could be achieved with an even number of members on each side of the chamber and 3 judges who could cast their votes. No one could point a finger at that result. 
I believe that this is purely a political move. I do not know that we can believe everything we read in the newspapers, but it has been written that the appointment of  Senator Gair  as Ambassador to Ireland was a brilliant move. Perhaps it was brilliantly countered. I do not know whether that is so and no one will know until we get the final result- the vote of the people of 
Queensland on whether it is 5 or 6 senators. I believe that Government senators are not proposing to place themselves in a position which is any different from that of other senators. If the Government sends this matter to the High Court it will be placing the matter in the hands of people who should be and I believe are without any doubt completely unbiased. Their decision should be a fair decision which, without any doubt, would be accepted by all the Australian people. 
I strongly recommend that we allow this matter to go out of our hands for decision because if we try to make a decision here we will make a decision for someone in this chamber, and it is wrong for us to do that at this dme. Therefore, when this question comes to a vote I will support the proposal to send this matter out of this chamber for decision, unless we can agree to have it decided by an equal number of senators from both sides of the chamber and 3 independent judges sitting where you,  Mr Deputy President,  are sitting at the present time. 
I address my question to the Leader of the Government. Are we to accept from the figures produced by an advisory committee of the Commonwealth Employment Service appointed at the instigation of the Minister for Labour,  Mr Clyde  Cameron, that 61.8 per cent of all people unemployed in Australia should not be receiving unemployment benefit? If so it would mean that it is costing the Government and the country $435,000 a week for people who are not genuinely unemployed. Further, 19 per cent of the people in the figures given had been on unemployment benefit for 6 months of more. 
-Does the Leader of the Government in the Senate recall that while his Party was in opposition I introduced a hardship clause during a debate on the Estate Duty Bill? Does he recall that every member of his Party in the Senate supported this clause then, but that it was beaten by one vote because the then Government, to the last man, voted against my proposal? Does the Leader of the Government in the Senate also recall that after continuous approaches from me on behalf of the people the Government has indicated that it would reintroduce this hardship clause during its term of office? Will he ensure that this is done before having a double dissolution, so that relief will be given to cases of true hardship where it is related to death duties? 
As an independent senator, I hope to be able to talk on the matter of defence in an impartial way. I know that the Opposition's job is normally to endeavour to show that the Government is doing something as an election gimmick. This is said in respect to this statement because it has been introduced just before a proposed double dissolution of the Parliament. I wonder what the previous Government- that is, the present Opposition- thought of the proposal to establish the Cockburn Sound naval base in Western Australia? From memory, that was introduced just before the last election for the House of Representatives. At the present time, the area for that proposed naval base is a heap of sand stretching from the mainland to the island. All work has been stopped dead. In my opinion, that was purely an election gimmick by the former Government, just as this proposed expenditure on defence is an election gimmick by this Government. I contend that neither Government, former or present, has anything to crow about. 
For many years, Australia has not been capable of defending itself in any manner. It has been proved time and again that people are landing on the north-west coast of Western Australia and bringing in drugs because we have no method of stopping them. We have not even got sufficient patrol craft to patrol our own coast. That is a disgraceful situation which, in my opinion, has developed over a number of years. We have been giving away money to other countries for the specific purpose of enabling them to produce naval patrol craft that we do not have ourselves. I have before me a Press cutting in which it was stated recently that we will give $262m worth of aid to Asia and Pacific countries. In my opinion, that ought not to be done as long as we in Australia do not have sufficient protection. lama great believer in the old idea of compulsory military training purely so that the young people of Australia have some knowledge of how to fight a war if it becomes necessary. 
Australia never has had and never will have the capacity to defend itself. It must rely on bigger countries like the United Kingdom and the United States of America to come to its aid. I sincerely trust that we will not do anything to stop America coming to our aid because at the present time the United Kingdom is in such a spot I do not think that it could even supply enough fuel for a warship to travel from that country to Australia. That is how far behind that country is financially and in regard to its overseas troubles. I have before me some information which was supplied to me by the research section of the Parliamentary Library. It show that in 1969 the Royal Australia Air Force had a total of 95 Phantom, Mirage and FU I aircraft in hand or on order. In 1972, we had 90 such aircraft and in 1973 we had 87 such aircraft. Those figures show that there has been a reduction of only 3 aircraft in the last 12 months. The Royal Australian Air Force had 20 Canberra bombers, but they are due to be retired from service. The Government has to look for a replacement for them. In 1969, the Air Force had 42 helicopters of the Iroquois and other types. In 1972, there were 47 helicopters and in 1973 there were 50. In 1969, the Air Force had 13 Caribou aircraft in South Vietnam and 13 in Australia, a total of 26 such aircraft. In 1972 and 1973 there were again 26 such aircraft. Overall, there was a total of 253 combat aircraft available in Australia in 1972, and there is still a total of 253 combat aircraft available today. So there has not been very much change there. 
It is rather laughable to look at our naval patrol vessels, or whatever it is that we have. We have a total of 42 naval vessels to patrol the coastline of Australia. If they were all on the job we would have one aircraft carrier, 3 guided missile destroyers, 2 Daring class destroyers, 6 River class destroyers, 4 coastal minesweepers, 2 mine hunters, 4 submarines and 20 patrol boats. That is about enough aircraft and naval vessels to patrol Rottnest Island in Western Australia which is just a holiday island. But Australia has an awfully big coastline. As a Parliament, we ought to be trying to increase at least the number of our patrol vessels and the number of our aircraft even if it means taking money from education. In my opinion, education is highly overcapitalised at this time, to the extent that many of our highly educated people are claiming unemployment benefits which are costing Australia over $40m a year on the latest figures that are available. Let us do something substantial in the right way to try to protect our country. 
I notice that the considerations contained in the statement presented by the Minister for Repatriation  (Senator Bishop)  on behalf of the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  have been brought forward by the Chiefs of Staff of the 3 Services collectively. In all probability, those gentlemen were holding their positions when the previous Government was in power. So probably there has been no change in the Chiefs of Staff who brought forward the suggestions. It is mentioned in the Minister's statement that the threat of war does not arise readily without warning. That is something we should consider seriously. Mostly, war happens without warning and therefore we should try to be ready. It has been indicated in the statement that even after the introduction of manpower economies which were announced last August, the manpower of the defence Services will still be 39 per cent above the 1 963 level. That is 1 4 years ago. 
Often we see on television programs what is happening in places like the People's Republic of China. China does not seem to indicate that it is looking for war with anyone. I notice that in China, from the age of about 10 years, children are taught something about war. I think that in Australia we are raising our young people in such a way that they are not prepared to go to war, and they would not be able to go to war if it really came to the point, because they would not know the first thing about it. We should reintroduce compulsory military training even if it is only for a few weeks a year so that every Australian who is capable of carrying arms has some knowledge of what would be required in a time of war. I believe that neither the previous Government nor this Government has anything to be proud about in its defence program and that we should not criticise either of them; rather, we should be prepared to accept that what they have tried to do is probably within the financial capability of Australia. That is all I have to say. 

 Senator BISHOP (South Australia-Minister for Repatriation and Minister Assisting the Minister for Defence)-  Mr Deputy President,  before I move that the debate be adjourned I should like to reply briefly to the point raised by  Senator Wood.  I promised to give him some information about the M60 tanks. It is a short statement and if there is no objection I will read it because it might be useful to other people. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Webster)-  Do you seek leave? 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
Difficulties were encountered in the transport of tanks where light weight or narrow gauge railway lines were, and suitable railway wagons were not available. In general, however, the study group found that both tanks possessed adequate strategic mobility to meet Australian requirements. In answer to the honourable senator 's question about the size of the tank, it is not true that the M60 is heavier than the Centurion. The M60 is, in fact, some 5,000 lb lighter than the Centurion although it is slightly wider. This difference marginal, however, only amounting to 0. 1 5 of a metre. I move: 
That the debate be adjourned. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate: Has the Government considered the fact that if a double dissolution occurs the promise given by this Government to abolish the means test during its term of office will fall by the wayside and as a result many people will continue to suffer the injustice of the means test? Will the Minister endeavour to put such legislation through this Parliament before the double dissolution occurs? 
Yes. I asked the Leader of the Government in the Senate a question regarding death duties and a hardship clause. 
-by leave- I felt that the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  made it quite clear that the Appropriation Bills were not ready to come from the House of Representatives yet. Until the House of Representatives has passed the Bills, the Senate cannot move on them. Probably many honourable senators have booked their plane tickets to Perth and other places. They should cancel those reservations and return to their States tomorrow, if necessary. We are here to do a job. Until such time as the Bills are debated in the right manner, we should be prepared to remain here. If the honourable senators want to return tomorrow, let the Senate sit all night. But there is no necessity to rush through legislation. I feel that the nature of the vote on the Supply Bills, when they are presented to the Senate, will be so serious that we should not treat it lightly. We should be able to debate those Bills if we want to do so. Therefore, I suggest that we be prepared to sit longer and, if necessary, carry out  Senator Wood's  suggestion that the Senate meet after Easter. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I am a little disappointed that the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers)  was not carried because I had quite a bit to say about it. I feel- I must say this-that the Opposition, in my opinion, carried out a hijack worth something like $330m not only on the Government but on the people of Australia. It had no right to do so. It exceeded its power. I have been a senator for some time, and I say that the admission by the Leader of the Opposition only a few minutes ago that over 12 months ago the Opposition set out to get rid of the Government in the House of Representatives is an admission that the Opposition cannot take a licking. It was beaten fairly and squarely by the vote of the people of Australia who put the present Government into power. The Opposition set out to put the Government out of power before that Government even had a chance to show its paces. The Opposition could not take a licking. 
You keep your mind where it should be. For the benefit of the people who are listening to the broadcast, it is quite obvious to me that party politics have entered into the Senate in a disgusting fashion. It is disgusting that decisions are made in this chamber on party lines. Honourable senators opposite are not game to cross the floor. In the very clear words of a man whom I consider to be the best Prime Minister that this country ever had,  Sir Robert  Menzies, who started off the Liberal Party, the Senate, if it did what it is doing now, would be doing a very improper thing.  Sir Robert  said that it would be very rarely that a Liberal senator, a Country Party senator or a Labor senator would feel himself free to vote against giving effect to a measure propounded by his own Party in the House of Representatives. No matter what is said by any leader of any Party, although he told his members that they could vote freely, they would not be game to vote freely because they would run the risk of not being re-endorsed. 
I am referring to what  Sir Robert  Menzies said, and you do not query him, do you? He said that it would be a falsification of democracy on a matter of Government policy approved by the House of Representatives, possibly by a large majority, if the Senate, representing the States and not the people, could reverse the decision on a Bill passed in the House of Representatives. That is precisely what the Senate has done tonight. Fancy the Leader of the Opposition having the hide to say that until the Government says that there will be a double dissolution we will not pass the Appropriation Bills. What a hide to say that in a House of the Australian Parliament. 
For the information of the Leader of the Opposition and for the information of the people listening, the Appropriation Bills provide money for salaries and wages and for other necessities including money for the States. When they are passed the money goes into Consolidated Revenue. If there is a double dissolution, Consolidated Revenue is controlled only by the Governor-General. I would not say that anyone would query the Governor-General 's motives in paying out any of that money. Fancy the Opposition saying that it would not pass the Supply Bills unless the Government told us when there was to be a double dissolution. On its own admission it started from the jump, right from the last election, to see that this Government was put out of power. When I was in the motor racing game, if a man beat me and I could not take a licking I would have been a very bad sport. Since the present Government has been in power the Opposition in this House has not set out to debate reasonable amendments on behalf of the people. Members of the Opposition have forgotten that they were elected by the people. They have only been talking for and on behalf of their political party, which I think is a disgraceful situation. 
I appeal to the people of Australia to remember this night and never forget it. I sincerely trust that they will fill this House with Independents, because they are the only ones who are capable and game to vote on behalf of the people the way they truly feel. I ask this chamber to get down to tin tacks and remember that tonight, if honourable senators think they have time in an hour and ten minutes- and I do not think they have, because I think it will take a week or perhaps a fortnight to do this properly- we have to pass Bills appropriating something over $339m. 
-It might be even $ 1 ,000m. I do not care if it takes 6 months to pass the Bills, as long as we do the job properly. I do not care who has to resign from any parliament or who is to stand for election to the Federal Parliament and who is not to stand. The dates of an election do not concern us. We have to pass the Appropriation Bills in the right way. I sincerely trust that the people of Australia will remember this night as a night on which certain events have been brought on by an Opposition which could not take a licking. 
The  CHAIRMAN (Senator Webster)Order!  The Senate is debating the question that clause 3 be postponed. 1 have allowed those debating to run very wide of that proposition. I would ask honourable senators to assist me by speaking to the question that clause 3 be postponed. 
