The Minister for the Capital Territory will be well aware that many residents of the Australian Capital Territory have been severely inconvenienced in the last couple of weeks through a shortage of liquefied petroleum gas. Can the Minister tell us whether it is the Government's intention to extend a spur line to bring natural gas to the Australian Capital Territory from the proposed pipeline which will pass very near the Australian Capital Territory in the vicinity of Gunning? Can the Minister indicate when this pipeline might materialise? 
Has the Treasurer received any comment on the actuaries' report on his proposed superannuation scheme for Australian Government employees? In particular, has the Council of Commonwealth Public Service Organisations provided him with comment? Will the Treasurer undertake to meet representatives of contributors as has been requested? Will the Treasurer inform the House when the future of the proposed superannuation scheme is likely to be determined? 

 - Mr Speaker, might I extend my congratulations to you and your  Deputy Speaker  on your re-election. You can be assured of my full co-operation and support in carrying out your duties. As the first member for the new seat of Fraser, I must say that I consider it a great privilege to represent a seat which bears the name of such a highly esteemed past member of this House as the late Jim Fraser. In the short time in which 1 have represented Fraser 1 have come to realise the full extent of the extremely heavy work-load with which the late Jim Fraser had to contend in looking after the whole of the Australian Capital Territory in the absence of other traditional forms of elected representation by local government bodies and State governments. Since Jim Fraser's time the population of the ACT has increased by almost 50 per cent and will have doubled in the space of another 2 years. 
This leads me to the subject on which I would like to offer some comments this evening, that is, the question of self-government for the most under-represented community in Australia, the citizens of the ACT. There are 2 matters in the speech of His Excellency the Governor-General which bear on this question. One of course is the welcome announcement by the Government that it is intended to give the ACT a fully elected assembly in the life of the present Parliament. The other is an qually welcome statement of intention that the ACT is to be used as a focus for initiatives in urban affairs and public participation in community affairs. I believe that the quality of the form of self-government which is eventually decided upon or which may develop will depend to a very large extent upon the degree of public participation in community affairs and the extent to which decision making is delegated to locally elected representatives. 
Let me make it clear at the outset that the advocates of self-government for the Australian Capital Territory do not seek a Statelike sovereign government. No responsible person who wants to see Australia develop to its full potential would wish to see any extension of this hangover from our colonial past, which so often provides an excuse for obstruction and irresponsible government. The tactics of the New South Wales Government have already created problems by impeding the development of the Australian Capital Territory and the surrounding region. If the borders that were drawn over 50 years ago are allowed to remain as inflexible barriers to joint action, the future growth of Canberra and the surrounding region could be seriously impeded. 
Advocates of self-government for the A.C.T. generally recognise that any such government must operate under powers delegated to it by the Australian Government and that the Australian Government should have a power of veto which would be exercised only in exceptional circumstances, in much the same way as the State Government exercises a power of veto over local government councils in New South Wales. Similarly, most advocates of selfgovernment acknowledge the overriding role of the A.C.T. as the national capital and seat of the Australian Government and that the planning of these aspects of Canberra should rightly be the responsibility of the National Capital Development Commission and should not come within the ambit of a self-governing body. At the same time we see self-government as being something substantially more than the conventional municipal-like councils controlling such mundane functions as parks and gardens, garbage and dogs. 
To restrict an elected body to such functions would not be acceptable to the citizens of Canberra as it would ignore the absence from the A.C.T. of a State legislature controlling functions such as education, health and law and order. What we seek to control are all those elements of government that are concerned with the A.C.T. as a social community with an identity of interests as distinct from those elements concerned with the functioning of the A.C.T. as the seat of government and of Canberra as the national capital. To deny to an elected body control over such elements would he in direct contradiction to the Government's stated intention of achieving a high degree of public participation in community affairs in the A.C.T. I regard it as being most important, too, that there should be a high degree of co-ordination and integration between the planning function and the administrative function. To this end I suggest that any elected self-governing body should have a voice on the National Capital Development Commission. 
I believe also that it is anomalous for Ministers who are responsible for over all nation-wide policy in a particular field, such as health or education, to be called upon to make decisions about domestic arrangements in their field in Canberra. Such decision making should be delegated to an elected assembly or to a statutory authority which should he responsible to the assembly rather than to the Minister concerned. Already we have in the A.C.T. an interim schools authority and an interim health authority. I am suggesting that those bodies ultimately should be made responsible to the elected assembly rather ' than to the responsible Ministers. To claim that statutory authorities made up of local citizens in areas such as health and education should be responsible to the Minister is to say to our citizens that we do not trust their ability to elect representatives who can make responsible judgments about the local administration of health and education. It is also tantamount to saying that a Minister of the Australian Government who has overall responsibilities for broad policy can he more responsive to the needs of local citizens than the representatives elected by and subject to recall by those citizens. I just cannot accept those as being reasonable propositions. 
The division of responsibility for the Australian Capital Territory among several Ministers becomes daily more costly in terms of delays, uncertainties and differences of opinion and is often subject to the personal whims and fancies of individual Ministers who are not responsible to the voters of the Australian Capital Territory. The possibility of rational democratic government tends to become buried in administrative anarchy by the pressure of work on individual Ministers. Long standing members of this House may recall the administrative crisis that was caused some years ago by the need to decide which department should be responsible for the removal of a dead pig from an island in the flooded Molonglo River. I understand that the pig became considerably inflated before the question was resolved by top level conferences between 3 departments - the Department of the Interior, which controlled stock; the Department of Works, which controlled Lake Burley Griffin; and the Department of Health which was responsible for the quality of the water in the lake. It was eventually decided that as the. unfortunate pig had been living in New South Wales when it fell into the river it should be the responsibility of the Queanbeyan City Council to remove it. 
The question of self-government for Canberra has important implications far beyond the borders of the Australian Capital Territory. As Australia's first large inland city, Canberra represents the first serious opportunity to extend Australia's social and cultural development away from the focus of the large coastal cities. It presents the opportunity of developing new relationships between country and city areas. It has already demonstrated the economic and social benefits of decentralisation - not the concept of decentralisation that was practised by the previous Government of transplanting individual industries from a city to the country but rather the establishment of the whole infrastructure of the urban industrial society in a rural environment. That is, it plans to marry the desirable characteristics of urban society in the form of well planned living, working, recreational and cultural facilities to the advantages of the Australian rural environment, to the ultimate benefit of both elements of Australian society. Now, of course, the inland city concept has been extended by the Australian Government to the development of new growth centres in places such as AlburyWodonga and Bathurst-Orange. 
Just as the Canberra community is beginning to develop a sense of local identity and a cultural and social awareness as a community, 1 believe that the other growth centres undoubtedly will develop their own awareness and aspirations for a greater say in the administration of their communities. I am confident that they will not wish to be continually dominated by State governments which are entrenched in distant State capitals and which have denied them reasonable growth prospects for so long. So it is quite apparent that new administrative relationships will need to be developed between the Australian Government and the new regional growth centres - relationships that will allow for a high degree of community participation and decentralised administration under the broad policy direction of a strong central government. Canberra provides us with the unique opportunity of developing this relationship free from the obstructions of parochial State governments. With a wise measure of community involvement and delegated authority, we could encourage the development of indigenous art forms and other avenues of creative cultural expression which reflect the particular nature of the inland cities - cities built on a human scale and in harmony with the surrounding rural environment. Whereas it was once fashionable to condemn Canberra because it was unlike the older cities, we are now recognising that Canberra has its appeal precisely because it is not like the older cities. 
There are, of course, many critics of selfgovernment in the A.C.T. It is frequently claimed that because the A.C.T. has been spared the poor government of the older cities it does not really matter whether we have undemocratic government and that a benevolent dictatorship by public servants and Ministers who are not responsible to the local electorate is the best of all possible worlds! I suggest that the very fact that this attitude is abroad is a timely warning that people can become conditioned to domination by non-elected bureaucrats and technocrats to the extent that they are willing to forgo their democratic right to self-government and to evade the acceptance of responsibility for their own government through elected representatives. I am confident that no responsible person would wish to see the people of the A.C.T. become so apathetic and submissive to domination that they would neglect the opportunity to accept responsibility for their own good government. Others have expressed great concern about the cost of selfgovernment; but can we really measure the intangible benefits of self-government in terms of dollars? I consider that the Australian Capital Territory legislature should be a full time, well paid assembly, but if its members do their job well there is great scope for very worthwhile savings by subjecting Budget projections to a much closer scrutiny than takes place at present. The present Advisory Council has already demonstrated this ability on several occasions. 
Perhaps the greatest myth perpetuated in relation to the cost of Canberra to the taxpayers of Australia is that they subsidise the citizens of the ACT. The costs of administering Canberra, apart from the national capital and seat of government component, are presented in 2 notional accounts, namely, the Municipal Account and the Territorial Account which is broadly equivalent to State-like costs. The Municipal Account is met by normal charges for municipal services and is approximately in balance. The Territorial Account is paid for by the Australian Government, and it is this aspect that gives rise to the myth. But I hasten to point out very clearly that if the Administration of the ACT received the same per capita grants from revenue from the Australian Government as the Governments of Tasmania, South Australia and Western Australia receive, then this amount would more than compensate for the deficit which appears in the Territorial Account. The people of Canberra do pay their own way and they do pay taxes in the same way as any other citizen. In fact, I believe that the average tax payment by ACT citizens is some 30 per cent higher than the national average. Yet the ACT does not receive any equivalent to the various revenue and special grants which are made to the States and, of course, all revenue from land sales or the sale of government houses goes into Consolidated Revenue and not into the Municipal Account. 
I hope that I have conveyed the broad philosophy of the kind of self government which I believe to be desirable for the ACT. It is a unique opportunity for the Government to put into practice its desire, expressed in the Governor-General's address, for public participation in community affairs, and 1 am confident that the Government will not be conservative or over cautious in resolving this longstanding grievance. I staled earlier that we were the most under represented community in Australia. To support this statement  I  would like to point out that in the States the number of electors for each elected legislator, including local State and Australian government representatives ranges from one legislator to each 387 electors in Western Australia to one legislator to each 1,182 electors in New South Wales; whereas in the ACT, even allowing for the proposed new assembly we would have only one legislator for more than 5,000 electors. I am confident that a government which has already increased our representation in this House and which is still trying to give us Senate representation against unreasonable opposition will not hold back in introducing a really effective form of self government. 
I must say that the decision of last week to give the ACT an enlarged assembly of 18 elected people with no legislative powers initially merely means that a powerless body of 8 elected members is being replaced by an equally powerless body of 18 elected members. I trust that the Joint Parliamentary Committee on the Australian Capital Territory will soon be reconstituted so that it can come to grips with this question and resolve it quickly, so that the proposed new assembly can operate as a really effective legislative body. The elec tors of Canberra have already demonstrated that they are quite capable of making sound political judgments and I have no doubt that they will continue to do so if given the opportunity. We as a government should not forgo the opportunity of demonstrating in Canberra what can 'be done in developing new relationships which combine the benefits of strong central government with effective decentralisation of administration and decision making by the delegation of authority to local community representatives. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Ruddock)  adjourned. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Health. The Minister will be aware that critics of the Government health centres in the Australian Capital Territory have been making extravagant claims that the cost of medical care in these centres is much higher than for care supplied by private medical practitioners. Can the Minister confirm or refute these claims? 
My question is addressed to the Special Minister of State. I refer the Minister to a report published in the 'Canberra Times' on 18 July wherein the Director of the Museum of Transport and Technology of Auckland, New Zealand, asserted that because Australia had no national policy to collect items of historical technological significance it had become a shopping ground for collectors from other countries. Will the Minister inform the House whether positive action is being taken to collect and retain historical material presently available in Australia before the recently established Committee of Inquiry into Museums and Collections is able to complete its inquiry and report to the Government? 
 Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
If ever there was a Bill which should have the unqualified support of all members of this Parliament this is the Bill. If ever there was a Bill which gave people the opportunity to show where they stood on basic democratic matters and on matters of discrimination, this is it. But what have we seen? We have seen the members of the Opposition come forward with a whole range of rather spurious, irrational, illogical and quite undemocratic propositions and arguments which reflect little credit on their intelligence or their integrity. Let us look more closely at the sort of arguments they have brought forth. Some are: The Bill is not constitutional; it is doubtful whether the founding fathers intended that the people of the Territories should have representation; and the Territories are already over-represented. These are the sort of arguments they are putting forward. Another argument is that the Government is introducing this legislation as a plot for the purpose of getting the numbers in the Senate, and there is the quite ridiculous argument that if we give representation to these 2 Territories we will then be under an obligation to give it to all the Territories. Let us look a little more closely at some of these arguments. 
We have heard the relevant section of the Constitution read many times, but we just do not seem to be able to get through to the Opposition so I will read it again. Section 1 22 states: 
The Parliament may make laws for the government of any territory surrendered by any State . . . and may allow the representation of such territory in either House of the Parliament to the extent and on the terms which it thinks fit. 
There, in plain language, is the constitutional legitimacy for this measure. The Opposition claims that the founding fathers did not intend that the Territories should have representation. Let us look at what some of them said during the great debates of the 1 890s. Alfred Deakin, one of the greatest of the founding fathers and the one who showed a great deal of insight into the way the Constitution would work, said: 
We should seek to erect a constitutional edifice which shall be a guarantee of liberty and union for all time to come to the whole people of this continent and the adjacent islands. 
Deakin stressed 'union' and 'the whole people'. Is there any suggestion in that statement that the 200,000 people of the Australian Capital Territory and the 100,000 people of the Northern Territory should be treated differently from the rest of Australia? Of course there is not. Deakin went on to give some further very good advice. He said: 
Wherever we can detect a Federal interest or power we should provide for it in advance without waiting for public clamour or the long agitation leading up to an amendment of the situation. We should provide in advance for all conceivable Federal contingencies, strengthen the Federal Government and trust the Federal Parliament to use its powers wisely. 
This was the advice from one of our wisest founding fathers and this is the kind of advice which the Australian Labor Party is now accepting in this Bill. 
I am sure that any student of the Constitution would agree that the Constitution is not just a rigid set of words; it is a living document. It can and should be interpreted in a way which reflects the changing attitudes and values of a dynamic society.  Sir Richard  Baker, one of the South Australian delegates to the 1891 convention, confirmed this view when he said: 
I do not care in what way you frame the Constitution. The people of Australia will mould and modify it in accordance with their ideas and sentiments for the moment, although its outward form may remain the same. 
It was obviously intended to be a living document. Let us move forward to more recent times. I ask honourable members to cast their minds back to the perilous days of World War II when the Australian Labor Party provided such magnificent leadership to the nation under the Prime Ministerships of Curtin and Chifley. Even then there was a stirring in the village of Canberra for representation. A little known incident offers pertinent insights into the debate about what the founding fathers actually intended. A deputation of local citizens waited on Prime Minister Curtin to plead for representation for the Australian Capital Territory. Heading that deputation was the only surviving member of the founding fathers. He was not a politician , but was one of our most eminent jurists and distinguished public servants. I refer to the late  Sir Robert  Garran, who assured Prime Minister Curtin that not only did the Constitution allow for territorial representation in both Houses but also that the majority of the founding fathers definitely understood that this would take place as soon as there were Federal territories with appropriate population numbers. There are people living in Canberra today who can vouch for the authenticity of that statement. 
Let us turn to the equally spurious argument that the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory are already over represented.  Senator Greenwood  cited some remarkable figures. I do not know where they came from because they just do not fit in anywhere. I have the right figures here. If the Australian Capital Territory were to elect 2 senators tomorrow, each of those senators would represent twice the number of people at present represented by each senator from Tasmania. On present growth forecasts if they were elected at the time of the next electionin about 3 years time- they would each represent more than the number of people represented by each senator from Tasmania, 

<graphic href="089131197408061_69_0.jpg"></graphic>

South Australia and Western Australia. It is utter nonsense to say that the people of the Australian Capital Territory are over represented. The figures are just not there to prove it. Even in the Northern Territory, by the time it has Senate representation, each senator will be representing more than the number of people represented by each of the senators of Tasmania. 
If we take a broader view and look at all the elected people in the States, the position is even more remarkable. If we in the Australian Capital Territory had our new assembly of 18 elected legislative assembly members, 2 members of the House of Representatives and 2 senators, we would have one elected person to more than 5,000 electors. If we look at the smallest States, we see that Western Australia has one elected member for each 387 electors, South Australia has one elected member for every 527 electors and Tasmania has one elected representative for each 480 electors. The people of the Australian Capital Territory are not just slightly less represented than the people of those States. They do not have even half their representation. The have only one-tenth of their representation 1,000 per cent less than the less populated States of the Commonwealth. So it is utter nonsense to say that we are over represented. It is a complete and utter myth.  Mr Chairman,  I seek leave to have incorporated in Hansard those documents from which I have quoted. 

<graphic href="089131197408061_69_1.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="089131197408061_70_2.jpg"></graphic>

Then we have the argument that this move is a plot to gain political advantage for the Australian Labor Party. There are no grounds whatever to attribute such an unworthy motive to the Australian Labor Party. I do not know of any way in which the Australian Labor Party could win the 2 Senate seats in the Australian Capital Territory or the Northern Territory. If  Senator Greenwood  or the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  knows, they must have some new theory because nobody in the Australian Capital Territory knows how it could be done. There is no way that this would happen, except in very exceptional circumstances. This is how I believe the position should be so that the constituents can go to the parliamentary representative who represents their political point of view. The only way in which the Opposition could be disadvantaged in this situation would be if there was a breakdown in the longstanding marriage between the Liberal Party and the Country Party. Although that marriage has long been sterile as we have seen in the debate this evening, it is still quite obvious that those Parties just cannot afford not to live together. 
Finally, there is the quite absurd claim that if we give representation to the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory we would then have an obligation to give it to all other Territories. Here again, the Constitution clearly states otherwise. It says that the Parliament may allow representation to the extent and on the terms that it sees fit. There is clearly no such obligation whatever in the terms of the Constitution. None of these arguments can be taken seriously. They are merely conservative and devious devices in order to deny adequate representation and to perpetuate discrimination against citizens who pay their taxes in the same way as everybody else and who live under the same laws as everybody else. These are the people whom my colleague the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  considers, apart from the electors in his electorate, to be the most intelligent electors in Australia. These are the people to whom the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  referred in the House of Representatives on 29 May as being small sectional groups which are not like those in the rest of Australia. That is what the Opposition thinks of the people of the Australian Capital Territory. It thinks that they are small sectional groups which are not like the rest of Australia. 
The whole problem is to get through to the Opposition that Canberra in the mid-1970s is not a sleepy country town. It is not a typical State town which has been denied the opportunity for growth under backward Liberal and Country Party State governments. It is a modern city of 200,000 people, and within the next decade the population will go to something like half a million. The Country Party, of course, has the small-town mentality and tends to relate its politics to acres and square miles rather than to people. Its stand on this Bill has been quite schizophrenic in more ways than one. It supports senators for the Northern Territory but not for the Australian Capital Territory, apparently on the basis of the square mile syndrome. While it consistently opposes the Bill in the Senate, it does not seem to be able to make up its mind whether to support it or reject it in the House of Representatives. It will be interesting tonight to see what happens. 
I know that there are some members of the Opposition who have a fair knowledge of Canberra as a community, but there are many members who have no knowledge of Canberra apart from the precincts of Parliament House. I am quite confident that if I took many of these members out to Tuggeranong, Belconnen West or Charnwood they would not know where they were and if the water spout in Lake Burley Griffin were turned off they would not be able to get back to Parliament House. They would not know where it was. That is how much they know about the Australian Capital Territory. That is how much concern they have for its citizens. 
I believe that this Bill merely provides for the anticipated normal progress and development of a democratic society- a society which seeks to avoid discrimination against any section of its people. I suggest that it is precisely the kind of development which the founders of the Constitution foresaw. People like Deakin, Piddington and Garran, men of great vision and men with a sense of history, foresaw the need to make provision in the Constitution for this historic Joint Sitting this evening. I wonder what these great men would be thinking if they were sitting in this chamber tonight and hearing the arguments of the Opposition.  Mr Chairman,  I can assure you that the people of the Australian Capital TerritoryI have no doubt I speak for the people of the Northern Territory too- are utterly fed up with the backing, the filling, the delay and the humbug that has gone on over the Senate representation of these 2 Territories. They are absolutely fed up with the discrimination, and I suggest that it should end once and for all here tonight. 
If ever there was a Bill which should have the unqualified support of all members of this Parliament this is the Bill. If ever there was a Bill which gave people the opportunity to show where they stood on basic democratic matters and on matters of discrimination, this is it. But what have we seen? We have seen the members of the Opposition come forward with a whole range of rather spurious, irrational, illogical and quite undemocratic propositions and arguments which reflect little credit on their intelligence or their integrity. Let us look more closely at the sort of arguments they have brought forth. Some are: The Bill is not constitutional; it is doubtful whether the founding fathers intended that the people of the Territories should have representation; and the Territories are already over-represented. These arc the sort of arguments they are putting forward. Another argument is that the Government is introducing this legislation as a plot for the purpose of getting the numbers in the Senate, and there is the quite ridiculous argument that if we give representation to these 2 Territories we will then be under an obligation to give it to all the Territories. Let us look a little more closely at some of these arguments. 
We have heard the relevant section of the Constitution read many times, but we just do not seem to be able to get through to the Opposition so I will read it again. Section 122 states: 
The Parliament may make laws for the government of any territory surrendered by any State . . . and may allow the representation of such territory in either House of the Parliament to the extent and on the terms which it thinks fit. 
There, in plain language, is the constitutional legitimacy for this measure. The Opposition claims that the founding fathers did not intend that the Territories should have representation. Let us look at what some of them said during the great debates of the 1 890s. Alfred Deakin, one of the greatest of the founding fathers and the one who showed a great deal of insight into the way the Constitution would work, said: 
We should seek to erect a constitutional edifice which shall be a guarantee of liberty and union for all time to come to the whole people of this continent and the adjacent islands. 
Deakin stressed 'union' and 'the whole people'. Is there any suggestion in that statement that the 200,000 people of the Australian Capital Territory and the 100,000 people of the Northern Territory should be treated differently from the rest of Australia? Of course there is not. Deakin went on to give some further very good advice. He said: 
Wherever we can detect a Federal interest or power we should provide for it in advance without waiting for public clamour or the long agitation leading up to an amendment of the situation. We should provide in advance for all conceivable Federal contingencies, strengthen the Federal Government and trust the Federal Parliament to use its powers wisely. 
This was the advice from one of our wisest founding fathers and this is the kind of advice which the Australian Labor Party is now accepting in this Bill. 
I am sure that any student of the Constitution would agree that the Constitution is not just a rigid set of words; it is a living document. It can and should be interpreted in a way which reflects the changing attitudes and values of a dynamic society.  Sir Richard  Baker, one of the South Australian delegates to the 1891 convention, confirmed this view when he said: 
I do not care in what way you frame the Constitution. The people of Australia will mould and modify it in accordance with their ideas and sentiments for the moment, although its outward form may remain the same. 
It was obviously intended to be a living document. Let us move forward to more recent times. I ask honourable members to cast their minds back to the perilous days of World War II when the Australian Labor Party provided such magnificent leadership to the nation under the Prime Ministerships of Curtin and Chifley. Even then there was a stirring in the village of Canberra for representation. A little known incident offers pertinent insights into the debate about what the founding fathers actually intended. A deputation of local citizens waited on Prime Minister Curtin to plead for representation for the Australian Capital Territory. Heading that deputation was the only surviving member of the founding fathers. He was not a politician , but was one of our most eminent jurists and distinguished public servants. I refer to the late  Sir Robert  Garran, who assured Prime Minister Curtin that not only did the Constitution allow for territorial representation in both Houses but also that the majority of the founding fathers definitely understood that this would take place as soon as there were Federal territories with appropriate population numbers. There are people living in Canberra today who can vouch for the authenticity of that statement. 
Let us turn to the equally spurious argument that the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory are already over represented.  Senator Greenwood  cited some remarkable figures. I do not know where they came from because they just do not fit in anywhere. I have the right figures here. If the Australian Capital Territory were to elect 2 senators tomorrow, each of those senators would represent twice the number of people at present represented by each senator from Tasmania. On present growth forecasts if they were elected at the time of the next electionin about 3 years time- they would each represent more than the number of people represented by each senator from Tasmania, 
South Australia and Western Australia. It is utter nonsense to say that the people of the Australian Capital Territory are over represented. The figures are just not there to prove it. Even in the Northern Territory, by the time it has Senate representation, each senator will be representing more than the number of people represented by each of the senators of Tasmania. 
If we take a broader view and look at all the elected people in the States, the position is even more remarkable. If we in the Australian Capital Territory had our new assembly of 18 elected legislative assembly members, 2 members of the House of Representatives and 2 senators, we would have one elected person to more than 5,000 electors. If we look at the smallest States, we see that Western Australia has one elected member for each 387 electors, South Australia has one elected member for every 527 electors and Tasmania has one elected representative for each 480 electors. The people of the Australian Capital Territory are not just slightly less represented than the people of those States. They do not have even half their representation. The have only one-tenth of their representation 1,000 per cent less than the less populated States of the Commonwealth. So it is utter nonsense to say that we are over represented. It is a complete and utter myth.  Mr Chairman,  I seek leave to have incorporated in Hansard those documents from which I have quoted. 

<graphic href="060232197408062_69_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="060232197408062_69_1.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="060232197408062_70_2.jpg"></graphic>

Then we have the argument that this move is a plot to gain political advantage for the Australian Labor Party. There are no grounds whatever to attribute such an unworthy motive to the Australian Labor Party. I do not know of any way in which the Australian Labor Party could win the 2 Senate seats in the Australian Capital Territory or the Northern Territory. If  Senator Greenwood  or the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  knows, they must have some new theory because nobody in the Australian Capital Territory knows how it could be done. There is no way that this would happen, except in very exceptional circumstances. This is how I believe the position should be so that the constituents can go to the parliamentary representative who represents their political point of view. The only way in which the Opposition could be disadvantaged in this situation would be if there was a breakdown in the longstanding marriage between the Liberal Party and the Country Party. Although that marriage has long been sterile as we have seen in the debate this evening, it is still quite obvious that those Parties just cannot afford not to live together. 
Finally, there is the quite absurd claim that if we give representation to the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory we would then have an obligation to give it to all other Territories. Here again, the Constitution clearly states otherwise. It says that the Parliament may allow representation to the extent and on the terms that it sees fit. There is clearly no such obligation whatever in the terms of the Constitution. None of these arguments can be taken seriously. They are merely conservative and devious devices in order to deny adequate representation and to perpetuate discrimination against citizens who pay their taxes in the same way as everybody else and who live under the same laws as everybody else. These are the people whom my colleague the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  considers, apart from the electors in his electorate, to be the most intelligent electors in Australia. These are the people to whom the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  referred in the House of Representatives on 29 May as being small sectional groups which are not like those in the rest of Australia. That is what the Opposition thinks of the people of the Australian Capital Territory . It thinks that they are small sectional groups which are not like the rest of Australia. 
The whole problem is to get through to the Opposition that Canberra in the mid- 1 970s is not a sleepy country town. It is not a typical State town which has been denied the opportunity for growth under backward Liberal and Country Party State governments. It is a modern city of 200,000 people, and within the next decade the population will go to something like half a million. The Country Party, of course, has the small-town mentality and tends to relate its politics to acres and square miles rather than to people. Its stand on this Bill has been quite schizophrenic in more ways than one. It supports senators for the Northern Territory but not for the Australian Capital Territory, apparently on the basis of the square mile syndrome. While it consistently opposes the Bill in the Senate, it does not seem to be able to make up its mind whether to support it or reject it in the House of Representatives. It will be interesting tonight to see what happens. 
I know that there are some members of the Opposition who have a fair knowledge of Canberra as a community, but there are many members who have no knowledge of Canberra apart from the precincts of Parliament House. I am quite confident that if I took many of these members out to Tuggeranong, Belconnen West or Charnwood they would not know where they were and if the water spout in Lake Burley Griffin were turned off they would not be able to get back to Parliament House. They would not know where it was. That is how much they know about the Australian Capital Territory. That is how much concern they have for its citizens. 
I believe that this Bill merely provides for the anticipated normal progress and development of a democratic society- a society which seeks to avoid discrimination against any section of its people. I suggest that it is precisely the kind of development which the founders of the Constitution foresaw. People like Deakin, Piddington and Garran, men of great vision and men with a sense of history, foresaw the need to make provision in the Constitution for this historic Joint Sitting this evening. I wonder what these great men would be thinking if they were sitting in this chamber tonight and hearing the arguments of the Opposition.  Mr Chairman,  I can assure you that the people of the Australian Capital TerritoryI have no doubt I speak for the people of the Northern Territory too- are utterly fed up with the backing, the filling, the delay and the humbug that has gone on over the Senate representation of these 2 Territories. They are absolutely fed up with the discrimination, and I suggest that it should end once and for all here tonight. 
-Has the attention of the Minister for Education been directed to the article 'Racism in School Books' in the latest edition of the 'Australian Quarterly*? Is the Minister aware that this article demonstrates that most social science textbooks now being used in schools develop and reinforce racist attitudes in the students, and that the most effective way of reversing this situation is for the Curriculum Development Centre to undertake the task of preparing such textbooks? Will the Minister use his best efforts to ensure that this project is given top priority by the Curriculum Development Centre? 
Can the Treasurer indicate what progress has been made in the consideration of the new superannuation scheme proposed for the Australian Government employees? 
-Is the Minister for the Capital Territory aware that at least 45 per cent of those workers who are not employed by the Australian Government in the Australian Capital Territory are not covered by long service leave awards, and that because of this at least 10,000 employees in the Australian Capital Territory are not in receipt of long service leave benefits which are enjoyed by their fellow-workers in the Australian States? Will the Minister indicate what action is being taken to see that workers in the Australian Capital Territory are not discriminated against in this way? 
-Is the Minister for the Capital Territory aware that the recent increase in the interest rates for Commissioner for Housing loans has resulted in many people in Canberra having to abandon their plans to build a home despite the ready availability of land? Will the Minister consider raising the maximum limit of the Commissioner for Housing loan to $15,000 so that second mortgage borrowing can be reduced, thus off-setting to some extent the burden of the increase in interest rates? 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker - 
I do not have many but there are plenty of woolly people in Canberra and they do not vote for the Labor Party. Being the member for the Fraser seat in the Australian Capital Territory means that I can take an objective view of the wool industry. I am not dependent on graziers for my vote. From an objective observer's point of view the most remarkable thing about this debate so far is that all the Opposition speakers have persisted in talking about amendments which the wool industry does not support. Yet the honourable member for Canning  (Mr Bungey),  the honourable member for Forrest  (Mr Drummond)  and the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Sinclair),  all persisted in talking about these amendments which the industry does not support. In case those honourable members have not got the message I think I should read a telegram from the  Chairman  of the Australian Wool Industry Conference to the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt).  The telegram states: 
The AWIC has become aware of certain amendments that are being put forward by the Opposition to the Wool Industry Act. We do not support these in principle or in detail, with one exception, and that concerns section 28a, subclause (12),  which is a very minor amendment. 
All that this indicates is that there is a serious lack of communication between the industry and the members of the Liberal Party and the Country Party. This is understandable because the members of the industry realise, like the Government does, that the members of the Liberal Party and the Country Party do not represent the best interests of the majority of the people in the wool industry. 
This Bill, supports a very historic Bill because it is another step showing the Government's determination to create more permanent stability in the rural industries. It is particularly important historically because we see the greatest and the largest of our primary industries now turning to the Government for assistance. In doing this it is joining a long list of successful industries which have done this in the past: The wheat industry, the dairying industry, the tobacco industry, the dried fruits industry, the sugar industry, which goes so well that it returns my colleague, the honourable member for Leichhardt  (Mr Fulton)  every election without fail. It is important historically that this great industry has now joined the list of the stable industries which have been supported by government initiatives over many years, and many of these supporting stabilisation schemes had their birth in the terms of the Curtin and Chifley governments after the last war as a result of the operation of the Rural Reconstruction Commission. This Commission was the basis of these successful stabilisation schemes which have made so many of these industries so successful. 
Before I talk about the Bill I would like to make a couple of comments about the Deputy 
Leader of the Country Party. He persisted in repeating this old hoary myth that the Labor Party is dividing the city people and the country people. If anybody has successfully divided the city people and the country people it has been the Country Party, and it has done this through the failure of its decentralisation policy. It has refused to accept the historic fact that Australia is an urban society. It has tried to perpetuate the myth that we are a rural society when everybody knows that as early as 1890 two-thirds of Australians lived in urban situations. But the Country Party has perpetuated this myth that there is something particularly moral in living in the country or for some particular reason it is superior to live in the country. Its decentralisation policy has been based on this. What has it done? It has tried to pick up an ailing industry out of a big city, transport it out into a little country town, and time and time again it has failed. And it has failed because they do not have the infrastructure in the country town to support the industry. 
I can remember quite well the great Stevens Knitting Mills suddenly appearing in my home town of Bathurst 3 weeks before an election. Great headlines appeared in the local Press: 'Stevens Knitting Mills comes to Bathurst'. Six weeks after the election they left town with their tail between their legs and the Press did not say a word about it. That is the Country Party's decentralisation system. In contrast, the Labor Party has acknowledged the fact that the majority of Australians like to live in urban situations, and what is it doing? It is creating the favourable urban conditions in country areas. It is creating good housing, health - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Berinson)Order! There is no point of order involved. (Quorum formed). 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I was explaining the difference between the decentralisation policy of the Labor Party and that of the Country Party. The Labor Party is actually trying to marry the urban conditions to the advantages of the rural environment. It is creating good housing, good schooling, education and health facilities in a rural atmosphere. That is what the Labor Party has done in Canberra and it has done it successfully. This is what it will do in the new growth centres if it can get support from the State governments. This is what will happen in Bathurst and Orange and in Albury-Wodonga. 
We will create urban conditions in rural areas, and I challenge the members of the Country Party to say whether their rural supporters are disadvantaged by this policy. Of course they are not. The rural people surrounding the city of Canberra have done very nicely. The Country Party's friends down at Lanyon were offered $1.5m or $2m for their station and they wanted $30m. That is how well they did. Of course we had to refuse it. That is private enterprise. They have done very nicely out of the Labor Government's decentralisation policies. 
Let us get back to the wool industry. The honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  complains about the enlargement of the Corporation. This is one of the greatest things that the Bill has done, because it has made the wool industry realise that it does not consist entirely of wool growers. There are all sorts of people in the wool industry besides the growers. The growers are in the minority in the industry, but of course they are a very important minority and the whole industry rests on their success. But there are many other elements of the industry and this is a sign that the Government acknowledges that by broadening the scope of the Corporation. There are wool selling organisations, transport organisations, wool classing, storage facilities, and the people who shear the sheep, the members of the great Australian Workers Union, which spawned such great people as the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  and my colleague the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young),  all products of the AWU. There are the research and marketing organisations, and of course the trade unions, which are actively engaged in the industry. This is merely a sign that the industry is grown up, it is broadening its vision and it wants to see everybody in the industry represented in the Corporation, and not just a minority of growers. 
I mentioned that this is an historic situation because the wool industry has now joined the other industries which have sought government protection of government assistance over the years.. I think it is quite apparent now to everybody that the most successful rural industries are those which have been stabilised by government initiative. The most unstable are those which have not had such support, and include the beef industry, the orcharding industry and the market gardening industry. They will be the next, of course, and the Government is having a close look at the beef industry now. But the Government's initiative just makes complete rubbish of the constant carping and bleating of the Opposition about socialisation and about the myth of free enterprise in rural industries. What complete rubbish this is when all the great industries are now subject to government support and stabilisation schemes. No group of Australian industries has relied more on Government support than the rural sector. A wide range of support has been given. It includes stabilisation, equalisation schemes, production quotas, licensing, tax concessions and last, but not least, the tariff protection of imported goods which lower the price of machinery to agricultural industries. What nonsense it is to say that these are free enterprise industries. They are the most socialised industries in Australia. 
Of course they are. This is as I believe rural industries should be conducted. I am not criticising stabilisation. This is how it should be. But why not acknowledge it? Why go on with this nonsense about free enterprise and socialisation? The rural industries have been socialised for years and they have done very nicely out of it. 
I am not out to knock rural workers. I have been associated with the rural industries for years and I know something about them. 
People who make a success in primary industries deserve all the rewards they get. I do not knock them. 

 Mr DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Berinson)The honourable member for Riverina will cease interjecting. 
I am suggesting that support and stabilisation schemes are necessary and essential to iron out the uncertainty of the elements, of disease problems and instability in rural markets. They need stabilisation and the Labor Government has always supported stabilisation. But do not let us hear this bleating about private enterprise; it is rubbish. Apart from the general stabilising benefits, I believe that one of the major achievements is the broadening of the representation on the Corporation. This is a very good sign within the industry. The wool industry, of course, is closely related to the whole of the economy. It is not just an island in the whole sea of the economy but is closely interrelated with the whole community and therefore it is important that it be successful. 
It is also pleasing to hear the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  announce that the Industries Assistance Commission will be conducting an analysis of the overall assistance to rural industries with the object of reducing fluctuations in incomes which is part and parcel of rural industries. It was also rather pleasing to hear the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  express his concern in a speech to the Australian Farmers Federation recently at the emergence of what he termed 'malcontents' and 'demagogues' to lead disgruntled farmers. Fortunately his fears have not been borne out and the failure of planned demonstrators by primary producers in both Melbourne and Canberra give the lie to the exaggerated Press reports of discontent in rural industries. 
I am confident that the large majority of the wool producers recognise this Bill as a means of strengthening this outstanding initiative of the Government to stabilise the marketing of our most important rural industry. I believe that the majority would agree with  Mr Roberts,  the  President  of the Australian Woolgrowers Council when he paid tribute to the resolute action by the Minister for Agriculture  Senator Wriedt,  in initiating the floor price scheme. There is already some revival of the wool industry and I am confident that this Bill will not only benefit all the various elements within the industry but in the long run will benefit the whole of the Australian community. I commend the Bill to the House. 
-Will the Minister for the Capital Territory indicate what actions he is taking to improve fuel supplies in Canberra, particularly supplies of heating oil? Will the Minister consider calling a conference of representatives of Canberra heating oil suppliers to discuss the heating oil problem generally and in particular the possibility of zoning heating oil deliveries in the Australian Capital Territory? 
It is pleasing that the Opposition supports this measure which seeks to acknowledge the responsibility of the Australian Government for the environment. I hope that the public at large will join with all political parties in accepting this responsibility so that concern for the environment can be regarded as a non-political, national issue. The Bill should be seen as a measure of the Government 's sincerity and determination to halt the destruction and the disturbance of the natural environment which has taken billions of years to build up. But in the very short time in which the white man has settled in Australia the environment has been threatened because of lack of government direction and shortsighted economic exploitation. 
The Bill also should be seen as a measure of the Government's desire and determination to ensure that its plans for the development of new urban growth centres in rural environments are supported by adequate national parks. If necessary, those national parks should become integral parts of the recreational environment of the new cities and new growth centres. A further important feature of the Bill is the extent to which it will safeguard the special needs of Aboriginals whose natural environment has been ruthlessly exploited and destroyed with drastic effects on their culture and security. 
The initial impact of the Bill will chiefly be in the Australian Capital Territory, particularly in the development of the Gudgenby National Park, and in the Northern Territory, particularly in the development of the central Australian wilderness areas. An urgent need exists in the A.C.T. to exercise control over the Gudgenby National Park which comprises more than 20 per cent of the total area of the A.C.T. and which contains much of the future catchment areas for the waters of the Naas and Gudgenby Rivers for the future Tennant Dam. Until recently, the Park was controlled by the Conservation and Agriculture Branch of the Department of the Capital Territory. That Branch has carried out its work in a most satisfactory manner. But its role has largely been a caretaker one as a result of its lack of resources. However it has performed a very valuable caretaker role in the Gudgenby area. 
There is no question of the need for the development of the Gudgenby National Park. The population of the Australian Capital Territory is estimated to be about 200,000. By 1985 the population is estimated to be approximately 500,000. In addition, in the south east area there are approximately 120,000 people who tend to use the recreational facilities of the A.C.T. Further, approximately 1 million tourists visit the Territory each year. By 1 980, it is estimated that 2,250,000 tourists will enter the A.C.T. So, there is tremendous pressure on the recreational reserves that already exist in the A.C.T. and a great need to expand them. 
The Gudgenby National Park is the beginning of planned tri-State alpine park involving New South Wales, Victoria and the A.C.T. The Gudgenby National Park is this Territory's contribution to it. Unfortunately, the Victorian contribution has been a bit slow in coming forward as a result of the reluctance of the Victorian Government to gazette the areas required. The Tidbinbilla Fauna Reserve is also a most important recreational area for the A.C.T. It comprises some 1,200 acres. This Reserve has been discreetly and effectively developed on sound conservation lines by the Conservation and Agriculture Branch of the Department of the Capital Territory. I think that it should remain under the control of that body, but I am sure that it will benefit from the setting up of another organisation to develop the Gudgenby National Park. There is also a need for further development of the management of the present A.C.T. water catchment area of the Cotter River, including the Corin, Bendora and Cotter dams, to cope with the growing pressure on those areas from a rapidly increasing local population and an influx of tourists. 
The other important element concerning the A.C.T. in regard to this proposal is the fact that there are already extremely valuable teaching resources in the A.C.T. in connection with recreation. These would make a valuable contribution to the establishment of the national body and in the training of its officers. The Government is fortunate to have these resources as a basis for the development of a new service. These include the Conservation and Agriculture Branch, the Forestry Branch and the Parks and Gardens Branch of the Department of the Capital Territory, all of which have acquired valuable staff and experience in environmental matters in the A.C.T. 
Institutions of learning such as the Canberra College of Advanced Education offer a number of courses relating to the environment, ecological studies and conservation and park management, as well as land use and resources location and urban planning. The Australian National University has its Forestry School and its Urban Ecology Branch and there are the Forestry Research Institute and the Wildlife Research Section of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation. The Foresty Research Institute in the A.C.T. is the leading research body in forest management in Australia and carries out a lot of valuable original research into bushfire control in Australia. These are all bodies with a fund of knowledge from which any new body wishing to train staff would greatly benefit. I think that everybody would agree that adequate training of professional officers, field officers, wardens and rangers is most essential to meet the needs of this legislation. These officers must of necessity be able to exercise considerable discretion in dealing with the public. They should be seen as public relations officers with the role of educating the public rather than as law enforcement officers. That is the role that they have taken in the local organisation and I am sure that is the role people would want them to take. 
I issue a note of warning. Some concern has been expressed on whether the new body would interfere in any way with existing instrumentalities in the A.C.T. Care should be taken to ensure that existing structures which have been built up over many years and which effectively exercise control over environmental areas of the city and its immediate surrounds are not unduly disturbed by any new environmental organisation. It would seem appropriate that the present Department of the Capital Territory organisation should retain responsibility for those areas which are or which we expect to come under the control of the Legislative Assembly. These are the domestic areas of environmental control in the A.C.T., including the management of areas like Black Mountain, Mount Ainslie, Red Hill, Mount Majura and Lake Burley Griffin. Responsibility for these areas should continue to be seen as part of the domestic affairs of the A.C.T. which should come under the control of the Legislative Assembly. I think it appropriate that the new organisation should take responsibility for the Gudgenby National Park. The Forestry Branch of the Department of the Capital Territory has had considerable experience and has developed managerial skills in the multiple use of forest areas, particularly softwood forests in Australia. I think that its managerial skills will be of great assistance to any new organisation and that one organisation can benefit the other without cutting across each other's area of responsibility. 
The Bill emphasises the need to develop large national parks to complement the new cities policies of the Labor Government. This concept contradicts the oft-repeated claims of the Opposition Parties, particularly the Country Party, that the Labor Government is attempting to divide country and city people. The policies of the Labor Government recognise the traditional Australian preference for the urban way of life and it seeks to combine that preference with the advantages of the rural environment. It seeks to establish and combine the whole urban superstructure in the form of well-planned living, recreational and cultural amenities with a rural environment, just as we have done in the A.C.T. Just as the need for national parks and wildlife reserves is now quite apparent in the A.C.T., I suggest that this need will become apparent in the new growth centres in Australia. The Government must be in a position to plan for these needs well in advance. This Bill will enable the Government to do so. I commend it to the House. 
-This is the sort of motion which one would have expected to be moved by the Australian Labor Party when it was in Opposition in respect of the present Opposition when it was in government. That would have been justified. Of course, it is quite ridiculous to move this sort of motion against the present Government. This is because the whole focus of the Government's policy has been towards young people. We have been looking ahead. We are not looking at the past and trying to maintain the status quo. The main element of our legislative program has been orientated towards the aspirations of young people. It is quite ridiculous to make this sort of charge against the Government. National issues have been mentioned by my colleague, the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Bryant).  The first thing the Government did when it came into office was to stop young people being conscripted to fight in an immoral war, a war in which they did not believe. We gave young people the right to vote at 18 years of age. We abolished tertiary fees in education. Conscription was abolished altogether on the first day the new Government took office. The abolition of tertiary fees enabled people from working class homes to attend our tertiary institutions for the first time. All these measures have been fundamental things which have had a profound influence on the future of all young people in the whole of Australia and in the whole of our society. This is no more so than in Canberra. 
We did great things for young women by abolishing discrimination in the Australian Public Service. All these measures were directed towards young people. They responded by voting overwhelmingly for the Australian Labor Party both at the election in 1972 and in May of this year. I am sure that they will continue to do so. I believe that the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  is not interested in young people. He devoted most of his time to trying to score off the Government about the housing of an adult person and about her employment. 
That is right. He is not concerned about the thousands of young people in the Australian Capital Territory. He was endeavouring to smear the Government on information, the source of which he did not disclose and which I understand was stolen from a Public Service file. This is the basis of the information. He is smearing the Government. This has nothing whatever to do with young people. 
The honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  wanted to discuss these matters on the local domestic level. My colleague the Minister for the Capital Territory has outlined a shopping list of things that have been done for young people in the Australian Capital Territory. I want to expand on this list just a little and mention a few things which he did not mention in particular. I want to pay tribute to the Young Men's Christian Association and the Young Women's Christian Association in the Australian Capital Territory. We are very fortunate to have a man of the calibre of  Mr Eric  Boyson as director of the YMCA. This organisation has been in the forefront of providing amenities for young people in this Territory. Wherever a new town has been developed the YMCA has been one of the first organisations to establish itself. It has provided a tremendously wide range of amenities for young people. Recently a grant of $ 1.6m was approved for the YMCA to build a 200-bed hostel. Honourable members opposite apparently are not aware of these things. Are they aware of the 
Canberra youth orchestra? Hundreds of young people are trained to an extremely high standard in music. The orchestra has just had a very successful and rather triumphant tour overseas. Apparently, Opposition members have not heard of the youth orchestra of the Australian Capital Territory. 
Are honourable members aware of the Griffin Centre where over 100 cultural organisations meet regularly? The majority of those organisations are concerned with young people. There are hundreds of organisations for young people in the Australian Capital Territory. Nowhere in Australia are they better catered for than in the Australian Capital Territory. We have heard something about heated pools. 
The previous Government did not believe in heated pools. It believed in establishing a succession of white elephants in the Australian Capital Territory. It constructed five or six swimming pools which could be used only for about 6 weeks of each year and which were very costly to the community. The main problem with these swimming pools in this sort of climate is that we were unable to teach young people how to swim. The success rate of our learn-to-swim activities was 20 per cent, that is, only 20 children out of every 100 children we tried to teach to swim were successful in learning. After much agitation by the Australian Capital Territory Advisory Council- mainly from the Australian Labor Party members of it- the National Capital Development Commission incorporated in its budget for 1972 expenditure for one heated swimming pool. When the then Government considered the budget of the National Capital Development Commission it dropped only one item from that budget totalling S69m. Honourable members would not guess what it was. It was the item of expenditure for the heated pool for the people of the Australian Capital Territory. By doing so, that Government denied the people of the Australian Capital Territory the opportunity to teach their young children to be safe in the water and to be able to look after themselves. That is how interested that Government was in the Australian Capital Territory. We still have no heated swimming pools but several are in the planning stages. If the people can wait a little longer we will have heated pools in all areas of Canberra. 
We have heated one open swimming pool at Phillip as an interim measure. But permanent heated swimming pools will become the order of the day. 
Let us look at the other general avenues of sport. Let me take football as my first example. In Canberra young people do not have to play Aussie Rules to be socially acceptable. They can play any type of football they like. They can play rugby league, rugby union, soccer or Aussie Rules. They can have the lot. In my electorate there are very strong organisations catering for all these sports, particularly in the junior league. There are several junior clubs which have hundreds of members. These are all being catered for through the facilities of the Department of the Capital Territory. In my job of representing the electorate of Fraser I have to make frequent representations to the Minister and the Department on behalf of organisations catering for young people. My representations have always received the most sympathetic and positive consideration. It has been a pleasure to make representations because I know that they will be listened to and that if it is possible to do something it will be done. There are many projects in the pipeline at the moment. 
We have made special provision in the Australian Capital Territory for the education of young people. Nowhere else in Australia are so many 4-year-old children attending pre-school. Over 90 per cent of 4-year-olds in the Australian Capital Territory attend pre-school. We have done splendid things in regard to child care. Nowhere else in Australia are there available the child care facilities that we have in the Australian Capital Territory. The school without walls has been operating to cater for children who feel that they can learn in a different environment to that of the Government schools. This too has been a great success. There are many other fields. Orienteering has been a great success in Canberra and people are allowed to use the softwood forests in the Australian Capital Territory for this purpose. We have set up cycle tracks, we have got horse holding paddocks for use by young people who are interested in horse riding. The other area to which I should like to refer briefly is the very close involvement we have with planning. We have consulted young people right along the line in planning in the Australian Capital Territoryin Gungahlin, in Belconnen, and in the new youth involvement program. 
I conclude by paying tribute to the very sympathetic and benevolent administration of the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Bryant).  It is because of this type of administration that we have attracted thousands of young people to this electorate from other Electorates, and this is the basic cause of any shortages from which we may suffer. 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Original question resolved in the negative. 
Would the Attorney-General please inform the House whether any substantial changes are contemplated in the functions and duties of the Australian Capital Territory Police Force? Will he assure the House that any matters which affect the future of the Australian Capital Territory Police Force are referred to the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly for consideration before any decisions are taken? 
-On behalf of the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory, I bring up the Committee's report on self government and public finance in the Australian Capital Territory. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I ask leave of the House to make a short statement in connection with the report. 
-On behalf of the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory, I present the Committee's report on the 56th and 57th series of variations of the plan of layout of the City of Canberra and the Australian Capital Territory as gazetted in 1925. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I seek leave to make a short statement. 
I do not wish to debate in detail any particular sections of the legislation. I leave the legal aspects to my learned colleagues of the legal profession on both sides of the House who have done this very effectively and at great length. But I think it is worth noting that the majority of the members of the legal profession in the House who have had a great deal of practical experience in divorce litigation tend to support the Bill. . 1 wish to speak briefly about a particular argument of many of those who are opposed to the Bill. This concerns the general concept of the family. The brunt of much of the argument against the Bill appears to evolve around the desire to protect the traditional concept of the family. These arguments appear to begin from the premise that the traditional concept is sacred, in some way inviolate, unchanging and immutable and that any attitude towards the nature of the family which tends to deviate from this traditional concept is in someway wrong, is undesirable or is immoral and therefore must be resisted at any cost. I do not accept this premise about the unchanging nature of the family or that any change should necessarily be resisted. History would indicate that such a view is quite unreal and contrary to historical fact; and in fact, the history of the family is one of slow but constant change in the past and one of accelerating rate of change in contemporary society. The changes in the nature of the family have many causes and have had many manifestations in the history of mankind. The mere reduction in the physical size of the family from the extended family of the past which embraced a wide range of relatives, down to the nuclear family of today, must of necessity reduce the strands which tend to hold the family together. 
Most members of this House would be familiar with the very old biblical story concerning a young lady named Ruth who showed great compassion and self-sacrifice for her mother-in-law. I would not suggest that we would turn our backs on our mothers-in-law today. I would not expect that the mother-in-law expects such compassion, and if she were unfortunate enough to be widowed, she would prefer to be as independent from her relatives as she possibly could. 
Modern modes of transport and communication have rendered our society much more mobile in a way which allows young people to leave the parental influence at a much earlier age. Many members of this House would have spent their childhood in a situation which prevented them from embarking on their education until 6, 7 or even 8 years of age, solely because of geographic isolation and lack of modern transport. In today's modern city many young people become conditioned to the temporary separation from their parents at the early age of 3 or 4 years through the availability of creches and child care and preschool facilities. I do not believe,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that it is our function to judge whether this is good or bad from the individual's point of view. It is a fact of life which many adults have chosen to follow whether you or I approve of it or not. 
Probably the most significant influence on the change in attitude towards family is concerned with the question of consciousness. The growing consciousness of the individual of his or her own inner self has many outward manifestations. Probably the most conspicuous outward manifestation of this phenomena has been the emancipation of women which, on the part of the younger generation particularly, has led to a complete reassessment of their role in society as partners in marriage, as parents of the family and as individual people. 
The educational process, of course, particularly under the Labor Government, has enabled many young people to obtain a more liberal and more objective understanding of society and the forces of change which operate within it. They have a better understanding of the problems of uninhibited population growth and a better understanding of the spectre of starvation for many millions of human beings in the world today. Society now has the physical means to plan rationally the size of the family. Contraception has come to be accepted by institutions because it has come to be accepted within the minds of the people within those institutions, although in many cases the institutions may have been somewhat tardy and reluctant in acceptance. 
We as members of this Parliament should not be called upon to enter into moral judgment on society at large. We are not here to make judgments on whether changes which have taken place in the idea and the concept of the family are less desirable, less commendable or less moral, than the old traditional family concept. I believe that we are here to legislate to see that our laws accommodate the changing attitudes and aspirations or our citizens and to see that such legislation operates to resolve or moderate the conflicts of marriage on a just and compassionate basis, particularly in relation to the children of the marriage. The concept of establishing guilt, irrespective of whether there is, in fact, guilt or not, makes it virtually impossible to come to an arrangement which is just to both parties concerned in an atmosphere of compromise and conciliation. If the motivation for survival of the family as an institution ceases to exist within the family itself it is absurd and in many cases inhuman to try to preserve the basis of the institution of marriage merely by legislation. 
I am convinced that the Bill greatly simplifies the law and will alleviate the cruelty, bitterness and often irrational hatred engendered by the present law, and will, in fact, expand the opportunities for conciliation and reconciliation. I believe that the role of the state should be minimal in these matters. The greater the degree of intervention by the State, the greater the affront to the dignity of the family institution and to the individual. Like all of my colleagues, I have received many hundreds of representations from my constituents, both in opposition to and in support of the Bill. I accept these representations as having been made in good faith and with a great deal of thought and personal feeling and sincerity. I have attempted to make an objective judgment of the arguments involved in coming to the conclusion to support the Bill, and I find that the arguments against the Bill are based largely on hypothetical speculation and assumptions about the undesirable social effects of what may or may not happen if the Bill is passed. 
In my opinion these arguments are completely overwhelmed by the reality of the gross injustice and the bitter degradation and humiliation associated with the existing law. I am not prepared to vote for a perpetuation of the cruelty and conflict created in the minds of children who are placed under great pressure quite often to choose between two parents as a part of the legal process in establishing fault in one parent which is often quite contrary to and in conflict with their natural affection for hoth parents. I am not prepared to vote to perpetuate the undignified role of the professional snooper for the necessity to establish fault and I am not prepared to vote to see the many thousands of unhappily married men and women throughout Australia condemned to the protracted anguish and inhumanity inherent in the present law. I commend the Bill in its present form. 
I direct my question to the Minister for the Environment and Conservation. Following gazettal of the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Act which provides for the setting up of an Australian Government National Parks and Wildlife Service, will the Minister please indicate when we might expect the GudgenbyMount Kelly area in the Australian Capital Territory and the Kakadu area in the Northern Territory to be proclaimed as national parks? 
Will the Minister for Social Security clarify the role of Medibank in respect of people who use medical and hospital services away from their home State? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Health. Can the Minister verify that as a result of negotiations between the Canberra Hospital Board and the Australian Medical Association the boycott of the hospital services scheme by salaried specialists has been called off? 
-On behalf of the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory I bring up the Committee's report on Proposals for Variations of the Plan of the Lay-out of the City of Canberra in the Australian Capital Territory as gazetted in 1925, the 58th Series of Variations, 
Ordered that the report be printed. 

 Mr FRY (Fraser)- I ask leave of the House to make a short statement in connection with the report. 
I think that every member of this House and indeed every Australian and American citizen would now be thankful that the Vietnam War, after 30 years of death and destruction, has finally ended. But there is little point in being thankful if we fail to learn the important lessons from the unfolding of that tragic historical process which took place in Vietnam and which is still unfolding in other areas of South East Asia. So it is rather sad but not surprising to find that the Opposition is still more intent on making political capital out of the outcome in Vietnam, including the plight of refugees and in quibbling at the margin about the interpretation of certain relatively unimportant documents, than in making an intelligent and objective assessment of the lessons to be learned. 
When the Pentagon papers were published in the 'New York Times' in 1 971 many Australians became rightly suspicious of the basis of our involvement in the Vietnam war. Many of us wondered how and why we were pressured into such an active participation in that war by the United States of America. Now, following 3 revealing articles in the 'National Times' by  Mr Evan  Whitton, we know much more about the real truth of our involvement.  Mr Whitton  has come up with at least 4 major points which are extremely damaging and embarrassing to the Opposition. These 4 points remove the last vestige of credibility of the Opposition's Vietnam policy whilst it was in government. 
The first point is that the Australian Parliament and the Australian public were grossly deceived by  Sir Robert  Menzies in that elements of Australian fighting forces were actively engaged in the Vietnam war as early as 1962, 3 years before the 1st Battalion was officially committed in 1965. Secondly, Australia herself put pressure on the United States of America to become more heavily involved in the Vietnam war, and not vice versa as we were led to believe. Thirdly, Australian and United States diplomats discussed where a battalion of Australian troops would fight before even asking the South Vietnamese Government if it wanted more help. Lastly, to satisfy legalities, the United States concocted a scheme to get South Vietnam to invite Australia openly to enter the war, even though South Vietnam was most reluctant to have more foreign soldiers on its soil. 
Whitton 's analysis shows how deceitful the Menzies Government was and how monumentally inept was the advice given to the Government of the day. Indeed the Government was only told what it wanted to be told. It had a policy and it asked for information to sustain that policy. Even the New Zealanders who apparently had no better intelligence than Australians made a much better evaluation of the real situation and expressed grave doubts about the American policy in Vietnam. Appalling as this may be, it is even more appalling that the Opposition still thinks in the Menzies' era terms. That the Opposition has not learnt anything at all about Vietnam the last 10'years is well illustrated in the speeches made in this House last month. The speech of the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly)  particularly illustrated the paranoia and crooked thinking of the Opposition's stand. He said, as reported in Hansard on 8 April, that 'there is no reason to say that the reasons for fighting that war were wrong'. He echoed all the other sanctimonious reasons for intervening in Vietnam, namely, 'to give its people the prospect of a better future '. 
We now know the awful truth. We now know how hollow those reasons were. 
According to the authoritative, well documented articles in the 'National Times', our action was for our own selfish ends and to satisfy  Sir Robert  Menzies ' paranoid fears of red, or yellow, hordes invading us from the north, because  Sir Robert's  simplistic solution for the whole problem was to interpose the American military machine between Australia and Communist China. The honourable member for Bradfield and other Opposition members apparently have still not grasped the main point about the Vietnam base struggle; that is, that it was a civil war. Any schoolboy could tell the honourable member and indeed all Opposition members that, when 2 parts of a country or 2 fractions within a country are fighting one another, that is civil war. The fact that one side is pro-communist and that the other side is anti-communist has nothing to do with the definition. The Americans have called it a civil war- and they should know- but most members opposite, especially the honourable member for Bradfield, the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock)  and the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Sullivan),  refuse to see this; they are still thinking in the simplistic and unreal terms of the Menzies' era. Even this week,  Mr Clark  Clifford, who was a Secretary for Defence for  President  Johnson, said in 'Time' magazine of 12 May: 'The fall of Saigon means a civil war has ended'. He also admitted, if the Opposition is interested that: 'It is the best result so far as the people of South Vietnam are concerned '. 
I believe that the Opposition has become so strongly entwined in the web of its own mythology over such a long period that it now appears quite incapable of facing reality and making an intelligent and objective analysis of the events which have taken place in South-East Asia north of Australia. What has happened in Vietnam in the past 2 months is similar to what happened in China during the civil war in 1 948-49. Beleaguered cities fell, armies fled and surrendered, and a corrupt rump of a government fled the land with all t le gold if could get its hands on. South Vietnam ell simply because the government of the South was as corrupt as that of Nationalist China and its armies and people had lost the will to fight. Th  j  whole rotten structure came down in the same way as it did in China, because South Vietnam lacked leaders and a government which understood the needs of the people. No doubt mindful of America's great failure in China, Hubert Humphrey, President Johnson's VicePresident, said last week concerning the outcome in Vietnam: 'No outside force can save a country that lacks will or political leadership. ' That statement appeared in the 'Time' magazine of 12 May 1975. 
History has shown that there have always been wars, and a large number of these wars have been civil wars. One important point needs to be remembered about civil wars. They are internal affairs- family affairs, if you like- and because of this they are fought with a ferocity and intensity far surpassing those of conventional wars between nation states. So it is not surprising that the wounds of such wars take a long time to heal. This was the case in the United States itself in the last century, and in Russia, China, Spain and many other countries this century. It will also be the case in Vietnam. Let us face the reality. Civil wars are family affairs; they are no concern of outsiders. If one intervenes in a family quarrel one usually incurs the enmity of both sides either for what one has done or for what one has failed to do for one or the other party to the quarrel. 
History shows that outsiders do intervene from time to time in civil wars to suit their own selfish ends. This was the case with the allied intervention in the Russian civil war in 1919. It was also, as we know, the case in the Indo-China war. Honourable members may ask what happened as a result of foreign intervention in these 2 similar cases. The foreign intervening powers were forced to withdraw after a time because of warweariness and pressure of public opinion at home. This happened in the case of both the Russian and the Vietnam civil wars. 
All Australians should be concerned with what happens now in war torn and devastated Vietnam, but let us not with ideological bigotry jump to hasty conclusions and assume and assert without any evidence that millions will be murdered. We as a government are deeply concerned with the Vietnamese people. We will seize every opportunity to help those who have remained in Vietnam, and we will do our share to help those who have fled. There is deep concern and there is now plenty of opportunity to help the Vietnamese people in a positive way- not in a negative way by becoming involved in their war. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in a recent speech claimed opportunity and concern as the hallmarks of Liberalism. If this applies to Australians. then surely it must apply to the Vietnamese people too. The Leader of the Opposition and the so-called Liberals should be honest and consistent if they are not to fall into the use of the double standard of which the Leader of the Opposition and his colleagues accuse the Government so often. 
History has shown that we have come to live on friendly terms and have profitable commercial relations with communist states, namely, Russia and China. Why can we not do this with the new communist states of Asia? We, like the Americans, were involved in a great mistake in Vietnam. However, let us face reality and draw the right conclusions from our Vietnam experience. The right conclusion is not, as the war lords of the Opposition would have us believe, that we should prepare for another Vietnam style war in South-East Asia. Let us bury our xenophobic and simplistic notions and respect our northern neighbours. 
Will the Minister for Housing and Construction indicate whether there is any form of discrimination in the manner in which accommodation is allocated in government hostels in Canberra or in other places in Australia? 
I believe it is a great pity, but not altogether unexpected, when the Government proposes a forward and progressive piece of legislation such as this Superannuation Bill, a Bill that is designed to remove distortions and inequities from the present superannuation scheme to make the working conditions of Australian public servants more acceptable, that public servants should be the subject of a rather vicious and vindictive attack by the Opposition through its proposed amendments. I think that it would have looked better if members of the Opposition had come out and said: 'We are opposed to the Bill'. But, of course, they did not do that. They came out very quietly and said: We are not opposed to it'. But they then put up a series of amendments which they know are quite unacceptable and which in some respects will turn the clock back and leave public servants in a much worse position than they are under the present scheme. I will give details of that later. 
I think that the move by the Opposition is terribly irresponsible. I think it is irresponsible in the extreme because it cuts right across the assurances which were given by the latest Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  that it was not his intention as Leader to stand in the way of legislation which this Government had a mandate from the people to cany out. Although the present Opposition could claim that it initiated action to review the superannuation schemeand we do not deny that for a minute- this Government recognised the need for a review and it was determined to stop talking and to get on with the job of doing something about it. This was a very important plank of our platform at the elections of 1972 and of 1974. It was a particularly important topic in the election campaign of 1974 in which the 2 Australian Capital Territory seats of Fraser and Canberra were contested. Of course, the voters indicated how they thought about this subject on that occasion. There is no doubt that the Government has a mandate to reform the superannuation scheme and to produce a scheme which removes some of the many inequities of the old scheme. 
It is good to see that the Opposition acknowledges the inequities of that scheme because many people were not aware of them. I was made very aware of the position, of course, as I represent an electorate in which many public servants reside. Literally hundreds of people made representations to me and produced documented figures to show that they were in fact paying 30 per cent to 40 per cent of their salaries in superannuation. The scheme has inflicted great hardship on them. In some cases it has prevented them from spending money on education for their children. In some cases fairly highly paid public servants have been unable to take annual holidays because of the inroads that superannuation was making into their take home pay. They had to pay high contribution rates in order to try to maintain a satisfactory standard of living on their retirement. Of course, in many cases, pay rises are absorbed in superannuation contributions. Many documented cases show that the take home pay is less than it was before a pay rise. 
The basic need for reform has been well established. The manner in which the unsatisfactory aspects of the present scheme are planned to be overcome is also well established. The main change proposed is the transfer of the contribution system based on the purchase of units of pension to a uniform contribution rate not requiring actuarial calculations to match contributions to benefits. This involves just a change of the structure and does not add greatly to the costs. Many examples of how this system will operate have been given in letters to the Press throughout Australia. The other main reform, of course, is the extension of full benefits to members with lower medical standards, people who are now admitted only to the Provident Fund. It is proposed that these people will become eligible for the benefits after 20 years contributory service. This is the change that is responsible for most of the extra cost. The extra cost will not arise because of extra benefits given to the majority of members. Under the old scheme, of course, people contributing to the Provident Fund were treated unfairly. 
The capital cost of the new scheme is estimated at 13.7 per cent greater than the existing scheme. But the important thing to remember is that only 4.8 per cent of this extra cost is in respect of pension scheme contributors, excluding Provident Fund contributions. So it is the admission of the Provident Fund sector that contributes to the increased cost, not increased benefits that relate to existing members. Everyone associated with the scheme, including members of the Opposition and independent actuaries, seem to agree that these reforms are desirable. 
The Opposition, of course, is being quite inconsistent with the stated policy of its Leader in now attempting to emasculate this Bill. Members of the Opposition are not only being inconsistent but they are also being quite vindictive against a section of the Australian work force, the Australian Public Service. Their duplicity, of course, will not be appreciated by the Liberal Party machine in the Australian Capital Territory which to its credit has supported the superannuation scheme as put forward by the Government. Apart from ourselves, I think that the only person who would derive any great satisfaction from the Opposition's action in now trying to emasculate the scheme will be the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton),  a former colleague of honourable members opposite. The right honourable member must be rubbing his hands with glee as he is going to stand as an independent candidate for another place. The right honourable gentleman has stated his support for the proposed new superannuation scheme and his disagreement with the tactics of the Opposition on this occasion. So he must, of course, be very pleased at what is happening, especially in view of the Senate election next year. Members of the Opposition, of course, must be quite horrified at this despicable attempt now to undermine this most progressive legislation. 
Let us look briefly at the nature of the proposed amendments and at the manner in which the Opposition wants to emasculate this scheme. Of course, the first amendment relates to the question of indexation. This is another example of the duplicity and inconsistency of the Opposition. We have become quite sickened in this House by the continual bleating of the Opposition about the manner in which inflaton is undermining the living standards of people on fixed incomes. We are well aware of this. That is why we are indexing pensions. The whole trend these days is towards indexation. But despite the professed support for indexation by the Opposition, when it comes to the Public Service the Opposition does not want indexation at all. It wants to tie indexation to the Government contribution only and to limit it to 5 per cent. The Opposition wants to forget about the workers' contribution altogether. It has to be excluded from indexation. This is a preposterous proposition. It is just not acceptable. It would put members of the Public Service behind their present conditions. We all know that now public servants are being indexed on the cost of living on a basis of 1.4 times. What is proposed is considerably less than that, so the amendment must be quite unacceptable. It would be unacceptable to any workers organisation in Australia. I cannot understand why the Opposition should put up this amendment unless it wishes to effectively block the scheme altogether. It is discriminatory; it is against the flow of events and I am sure it would not be tolerated by any group. 
Another Opposition proposition relates to the retiring age. This is a progressive scheme. We wish to give some incentive for people to retire at a reasonable age so that they can enjoy their retirement. But the Opposition has gone against this principle. It has said that we should not give any incentive for people to retire at 60 or to have the option of retiring between 60 and 65. The Opposition says that we should not encourage people who are not in the best of health to get out early and so preserve their life and enjoy it to the full. The Opposition says that we should have something less than the States have. If honourable members look at the State situation, they will see that in New South Wales the Liberal Government has a 60-years retirement provision. It has even provided a 55-years option for women which is far in advance of what the Pubhe Service is suggesting. Victoria has an age 60 or 65 option. So the Opposition's proposed amendment is really turning the clock back. It is lessening the opportunity for young people for promotion or advancement in the service. It means that a lot of people who should retire, who feel they have done a fair share and whose health might not be the best, have had the incentive to retire at 60 removed by the Opposition. This is reactionary and it not acceptable. 
Another proposed amendment relates to the widow's pension. In International Women's Year the Opposition wants to discriminate against the widows. I do not know how their wives would feel about this. We want to increase the widow's pension from 62.5 per cent to 67 per cent. Certainly this is an advance, but it is nothing outrageous. There is nothing terribly radical about this. In New South Wales the widow's pension is 66% per cent, in Victoria it is 66.7 per cent, in South Australia it is 66.7 per cent and in Tasmania it is 66.7 per cent. All we are doing is coming into line with those 4 States. The matter of the 5 per cent bonus seems to concern the Opposition. This is merely an acknowledgment of the very poor position in which people who joined the Public Service at a very early age, and who have not advanced to a very high salary, find themselves. Mostly it affects people on the lower wage scales who have been in the Service for a long time. These are the people the Opposition wants to deprive of a little extra benefit. It is given in recognition of long service by people who have stayed on fairly low salaries because of lack of education qualification or for reasons of this nature. Of course, the Opposition says that the tall poppies get this benefit too, but we know that the tall poppies are subject to a means test the same as anybody else and they would get very little of the 5 per cent. The 5 per cent means a lot to people on low salaries; it means very little to people on high salaries because of the means test. 
Let us look briefly at the benefits of the scheme as proposed. The important point made by most defenders of the scheme is that the basic level of benefits provided in the new scheme is a little higher than is provided in the existing scheme which has been in operation for half a century. In particular, there has always been a maximum government financed pension of 50 per cent of final salary and the option of retirement at 60 on full pension. This required slightly higher contribution rates than for the age 65 retirement but the cost to the Government was no less than that under the new scheme. Since December 1973 there has been an adjustment of the government financed part of the pension by 1 .4 times the consumer price index. Prior to that, there were occasional adjustments in line with salary movements. The adjustment to 1.4 was strongly supported by the Opposition. The right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon)  spoke very strongly about this. He said what a wonderful thing it was. But now when it comes to the Public Service the Opposition has changed its spots and wants something completely different. It is completely inconsistent in relation to indexation. 
The new scheme is less generous in one respect in that 30 years service, rather than 20 years, are required before eligibility for full benefits. So the proposed scheme is not a 100 per cent improvement; in some respects it is less beneficial. The existing superannuation scheme gives reasonably generous benefits to most contributors, but this must be viewed in the light of the Government's proper role. The Australian Government as a major and socially responsible employer must provide overall terms and conditions of work so that it can attract sufficient staff to carry out its functions with satisfactory employer-employee relations. We should not have to apologise for putting up a scheme which will attract the sort of employees we need in the government service. Superannuation is one of the normal conditions of long term employment. So one would expect the Government to offer superannuation and other terms to match those offered by major competing employers. Those employers include the State Governments. The aim of a good superannuation scheme is to allow employees, after a full career, to maintain their personal and immediate family's standard of living on retirement. The existing scheme's maximum pension of 70 per cent of final salary, with widow's pension of 62.5 per cent of the contributor's pension- it is 67 per cent in the new scheme- is designed to do just this. 
While the scheme is undoubtedly one of the best in Australia, a number of other government bodies and large private employers offer benefits closely comparable. This has been well documented. The Conzinc Riotinto of Australia staff provident fund referred to in a recent exchange of letters in the 'Australian Financial Review' provides, after 30 years service, a pension of 63% per cent of average salary in the last 3 years prior to retirement at age 62. Some small private schemes for executives- the top hat schemes as we call them- give even better benefits that the Australian Public Service scheme. There are many examples of golden handshakes to top executives in the big private and public companies of Australia. Critics of the Australian Public Service scheme who asked whether the benefits given under the scheme could be borne in a national scheme for all workers do not apply the same test to the more generous private schemes. They apply a standard to the public sector which is different from that applied to the private sector. 
Most private schemes provide mainly lump sum benefits which are not as satisfactory from the viewpoint of income security, but the people concerned are taxed on only 5 per cent of the amount whilst superannuation pensions as paid under the Public Service scheme are fully taxable. The Government's new scheme tries to fulfil its proper role of acting as a model for other schemes in respect of its structure and the fairness between different groups of employees. To this end the new scheme aims for equity between those contributing for a varying number of years, between those with different rates of promotion, between males and females, between members of different medical standards, and for those leaving the Service for different reasons at different ages. It is a much more flexible scheme. It provides for differences between contributors and surviving dependents and between members at different income levels, etc. The new scheme provides for a greater avenue of choice and a wider range of options. It allows members greater choice according to their needs in being able to commute part of their pension- that financed from their own contributions- to a lump sum. 
The new scheme has improved provisions for the preservation of deferred benefits and for transfer to other funds for members resigning. We have already discussed the question of protection against unpredictable future rates of inflation since contributions are to be made at the uniform rate of 5 per cent of salary and pensions are to be updated in line with the consumer price index. The updating of pensions, although desirable for all pensioners, is undoubtedly difficult for private funds to guarantee. But the new Government scheme will probably lead to pressure on the Government to sell annuities indexed to the inflation rate to private funds. 
The Opposition's proposal that the inflation adjustment be limited to a maximum of 5 per cent on the government financed pensioners' income would go against the erosion of inflation. Full protection is all the more necessary when the inflation rate reaches more than 15 per cent, as it has recently. Pensioners are one of the few groups in the economy without any economic bargaining power to raise their income share during inflation. If the inflation adjustment for Australian Public Service employees was arbitrarily limited, they might even end up worse off than pensioners with private funds whose earning rate on invested funds could even increase by more than 5 per cent if rapid inflation continued. I should like to refer to a few common criticisms that have been voiced in the Press and other areas. I refer to a headline which appeared in the Australian' on 26 April which stated:  $3m pensions in new public service scheme. 
This may have given a misleading impression. The amount referred to the total payment of pensions over a retirement period of 17 years. The calculations assumed salary rises of 9 per cent a year and the adjustment of the pension for inflation of 10 per cent a year. If the assumptions turned out to be correct, then all wages, invested funds and private pensions and so on would also grow to seemingly vast compounded sums. It is rather misleading to say simply '$3m pensions in new public service scheme '. 

 Mr Alan Robson in the study referred to in that article suggested that the Government's cost out of Consolidated Revenue would be much reduced if it paid its own contributions towards the pensions into a fund earning interest throughout the employee's period of service. However, the funding method need not be any cheaper overall since, by not funding, the current contributions not paid by the Government are thereby made available. 
In conclusion, we are not bringing in a scheme simply for the purpose of this Budget. We are bringing in a scheme which has to last for a long period. We do not have to apologise for a scheme which is marginally progressive but certainly not disastrously radical as the Opposition has claimed. Government today is a highly complex and sophisticated- (Quorum formed). 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I wish to speak briefly about the new Austraiian honours system. As honourable members will know, the Government shortly will announce the names of the first Australian citizens who are to be admitted to the Order of Australia- Australia 's own honours system and one which, as honourable members will know, has the full approval of  Her  Majesty the Queen. The introduction of our own independent manner of honouring Australians who have rendered distinguished and unselfish service to their country is just another of the many and timely reforms carried out by this Government. I say that it is a timely reform, but in fact it is more a logical development which has taken place and which has gained ground over a long period of time. Whatever members of the Opposition may think of this innovation, I believe that it is anachronistic and subservient to have to depend on an imperial system of orders of chivalry to honour Australia's most distinguished sons and daughters. 
Now that this timely reform has been effected, it might be appropriate and useful to have a brief look at some of the history of honours and titles in Australia so that this latest development can be seen in its proper perspective. It all began many years ago with the advocacy of titles in order to create an hereditary nobility. Indeed, the whole business goes back to 1821 when that well known pure merino, John Macarthur, advocated the establishment of some kind of local aristocracy whose members would sit in the 
New South Wales Legislative Council and help to govern the lesser breeds unrepresented in that Council. This proposal came to nothing. However, the idea did not die away. There were proposals for an Australian peerage in the 1840s. When the new Constitution for New South Wales, which incidentally is the present one, was being discussed and drafted in the early 1850s the matter was revived. John- later  Sir JohnDickinson,  a judge of the New South Wales Supreme Court, wrote a pamphlet advocating the creation of local inherited baronages, with of course the title of  'Sir'. This  group was to consist of 100 fit and proper persons, 75 of whom would have certain landed property qualifications and the remainder of whom would have no such qualifications. The idea was that the Legislative Council was to be formed from this hereditary college. 
Then  Mr William  Charles Wentworth came on the scene. I refer not to the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  but to his illustrious ancestor, a man of many partsexplorer, author, barrister, wealthy land owner, statesman, Anglophile and, last but not least, patriot. Wentworth proposed to create a colonial nobility whose members would sit in the Legislative Council- a sort of colonial House of Lords. This outrageous proposal led to mass protest meetings in Sydney in 1853, at which the whole idea was ridiculed into oblivion by that brilliant native-born Australian, Daniel Deniehy, in a speech which has become famous in the annals of Australian humour, invective and sarcasm. He poured scorn on what he called the proposed bunyip aristocracy' and those 'dukes in blossom and marquises in bud in Macquarie Street' who aspired to titles such as the Duke of VaucluseWentworth himself- and the Earl of CamdenMacarthur. Daniel Deniehy won the day and certainly struck the right note. However, apart from all his invective, he said one thing which I believe is true and is being acted upon by the Government today. He said:   . . there is an aristocracy worthy of our respect and admiration. Wherever human skill and brain are eminent . . . there is an aristocracy that confers eternal honour upon the land that possesses it. 
This, I suggest, is what the Government desires to honour with the introduction of its new honours system. The idea of hereditary titles was buried forever by Daniel Deniehy; but from time to time Australians, mainly politicians, continued to be honoured by the British Government with knighthoods and other decorations. This practice was strongly denounced by another native-born Australian,  Mr Bruce  Nicoll, the member for 
Richmond in the New South Wales Legislative Assembly in 1890. On 5 June 1890 he told that House that he was opposed to 'the flimsy and wretched imperial tides which are distributed every few years through the colonies'. He went on to say: 
I think it must be very humiliating to men who have worked hard for their country to be offered the privilege of adding a paltry C.M.G. or even K.C.M.G. to their names; and I trust that in time to come it will be looked upon as a disgrace for an Australian to receive any of these miserable titles. 
For good measure he added: 
I surprised that they should be accepted by any man with a sense of honour. 
That is a view which is generally supported within the Labor Party. I remind honourable members that Nicoll said that 85 years ago. It has taken us a long time to do away with imperial honours. It is also worth mentioning that Bruce Nicoll, who was president of the Australian Natives Association and one of the pioneers of the Northern Rivers District of New South Wales, was so advanced in his views at that. time that he even advocated Australianborn Governors. That was 85 years ago. 
Tides and honours for services to charity and the public continued to be distributed not only in New South Wales but also in the other States and, after 1901, by the Commonwealth Government The distribution was an unlucky and unfair lottery, the honours usually going to the wealthy and the influential and often as a payout for political services or as a result of political patronage. However, in 1923 in New South Wales a blow was struck at the whole system when the Fuller Nationalist Government passed a resolution telling King George V that titles were no longer wanted in New South Wales. At that stage the redoubtable Jack Lang came on to the scene. He had just become Leader of the State Labor Party. He pointed out that things had really got out of hand in the awarding of honours; that it was a sort of flow-on from what had been happening in England, where Lloyd George has been selling tides for donations to his political war chest. Regarding New South Wales, Lang said: 
Some of the recipients of honours had records which would have better qualified them for admission to one of His Majesty's cells rather than to a distinguished order of knighthood. 
The resolution against tides in New South Wales has never been rescinded. However, it was binding only on the Fuller Government. The conservative Bavin Government resumed the practice of taking imperial honours. So much for the record. 
This Government believes that Labor policy on the matter is the only possible stand for a selfrespecting and independent nation. Canada, for many years past, has stood aloof and refused to accept British honours and titles. The former system, as I said, was an unhappy lottery, benefiting mainly the wealthy, the snobbish and the influential. Too often the really worthy ones were passed over. Too often the following words of the Australian poet summed up the situation: 
When they pin the stars and garters, when they write the titles rare, The men who earned the honours are the men who won't be there. 
The new honours system will be just and fair. Not only that, it will be our own rightful way of honouring distinguished Australians. 
I want to speak very briefly in support of these Bills. Both of the organisations mentioned in them- the Australian National University and the Canberra College of Advanced Education- are in my electorate. They are, of course, very important national institutions. Apart from the political or moral desirability of increasing the representation of students on the Council of the Australian National University from one to three, I suggest that the proposed changes are in accordance with the changes in society generally and the aspirations of the Government to ensure that people are represented at all levels. A few statistics about the student population of the ANU may be of interest to honourable members. The ANU has made very significant growth. Its student population now stands at about 5500. Of those, about two-thirds are full time students and about one-third are part time students. The ANU plays a very significant part in relation to the education of people within the Public Service in Canberra and has been largely responsible for the quite large percentage of graduates in the Public Service. 
The deletion of the reference to matriculation, of course, will only regularise what is actually happening within the the University. At present there is no matriculation requirement. A person is either admitted or not admitted. The matriculation requirement has no relevance to the present situation. It is therefore quite right that any reference to it should be deleted. It is quite well known, of course, that within some of the other universities people who have satisfied the matriculation requirements are not necessarily admitted. Such a requirement is quite irrelevant and out of place in this situation. 
The Canberra College of Advanced Education is a fairly recently established institution. It is not so many years ago that the foundation stone of this institution was laid by the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton).  It has made quite remarkable progress. It is now in the top ten of some ninety similar institutions. The College has quite a broad national role to play in that among other things, it provides education for quite a number of overseas students and provides special courses in local government. For those reasons this institution attracts students from a very wide field. As a matter of fact, more than 800 students at the CCAE come from outside of Canberra. The abolition of fees has resulted in some changes being made in the content and make-up of the students. There are now many more mature students at the College. That reflects the use to which the employees of the Public Service put the College. Many of them are people who have degees and are seeking further education. So, the College is playing a very valuable role in relation to government and the Public Service. A wide range of courses is available. The courses are generally vocationally oriented. They have been developed to fit the needs as they have emerged in the community. The progress that the College has made in the very few years in which it has been in existence is quite remarkable. It now has 4500 students. The pressure being exerted on the courses available at the College is continuing to grow. 
An interesting development has occurred at the College in relation to the provision of accommodation. I think that it is one of the first institutionsit is certainly the first in the Australian Capital Territory- to provide communal-type accommodation in which students are given separate rooms but share communal kitchens. That is in contrast to the full board accommodation that is provided at other institutions. This new development has taken place because of certain demands by the students. The general feeling among the students was that what was being provided was more than what was being asked for and was unnecessarily expensive. Students were paying $25 to $30 a week for full board, which they did not always want and could not always afford. Under the new arrangements students pay for their accommodation- their rooms- and share a kitchen and provide their own food. Of course, they can do that much more cheaply. I think that costs them something like $8 or $10 a week. That is a new development which has proved to be very successful. I know that it is now being followed in other institutions. Generally, the CCAE has been a very progressive institution. It has served its purpose well and I am sure that it will continue to do so. 
-On behalf of the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory I present the Committee's report on proposals for the fifty-ninth series of variations of the plan of the layout of the city of Canberra in the Australian Capital Territory as gazetted in 1925. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I ask for leave of the House to make a short statement in connection with the report. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Health. It has been brought to my attention that a resident of the Australian Capital Territory was recently referred to the Queanbeyan Hospital for an operation by a well known Canberra surgeon who also happens to be the leading spokesman for the Australian Medical Association in Canberra. The resident involved received a bill of almost $100 for his hospital accommodation. He had previously cancelled his health insurance and was relying on Medibank and the Hospital Service Scheme for protection. In these circumstances can the Minister inform me whether the Capital Territory Health Commission can pay the account which the resident concerned received? Further, to the Minister's knowledge have anti-Medibank doctors adopted a tactic to maximise their incomes, which involves admitting patients to the Queanbeyan Hospital, thereby denying them the free care and  accommodation available in Australian Capital Territory public hospitals? 
I want to refer briefly to the effect of the proposals contained in the alternative Budget of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and in the Budget of the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  on the Australian Capital Territory. I do this not from a parochial point of view, because 2 members on the Government side happen to hold the 2 seats in the Australian Capital Territory, but because Canberra is the national capital and it is a place in which every Australian should have an interest. So, when the Leader of the Opposition starts putting up an alternative Budget which aims very vicious blows at Canberra I think the people should be aware of what he is saying. If ever the people were grateful for a Labor Government, it must have been on Tuesday night. 
The people Will have an opportunity to say what they want fairly soon. They must have been grateful for a Labor Government after what the Leader of the Opposition threatened to do to Canberra. He seems to be prepared to sacrifice Canberra to try to make up for some of the goodies which he has handed out to his friends in commerce. That is a rather ridiculous proposition, because the budget for Canberra is relatively small in relation to the whole Budget and it would be the height of penny-pinching to think that the few thousand dollars one could save in Canberra would have any influence on the overall Budget. Let us look at what the Leader of the Opposition suggested. He suggested zero population growth for the Public Service. This means that in the Department of the Capital Territory, where a growth rate of 4.8 per cent had been recommended to cope with the rapid growth of the city, straight away about 300 or 400 jobs would not be avail.able to the young people of Canberra. If we extend that figure over the rest of the Public Service, which had a 1 per cent growth limit another 400 jobs would go to the waU in Canberra because there are some 40 000 public servants here. If the Leader of the Opposition abolished the Department of the Media, the Australian Industry Development Corporation and the Australian Legal Aid Office, a few more hundred jobs would go. Soon we are up in the thousands. These are jobs on which young people in Canberra rely. Thousands of young people Will be leaving the Australian National University and the colleges in Canberra at the end of this year. Under the Fraser proposals no jobs Will be available for them. I wonder what the electorate thinks about that. 
The other vicious attack was on the Department of Urban and Regional Development. Cuts there would fall heavily on the National Capital Development Commission. The Leader of the Opposition launched a vicious attack on growth centres. The most successful growth centre in Australia- the place where we have demonstrated the possibilities of growth centres- has been Canberra. If honourable members knock the NCDC they knock the building industry. I am surprised that the Leader of the Opposition, like many of his colleagues, tried to put the public sector and the private sector in separate compartments. This is utter nonsense, as they well know. One is dependent on the other, and nowhere more so than in Canberra. If honourable members knock the Public Service they knock the retail trade, the car trade and the building trade- they knock everybody. Honourable members opposite are suggesting cuts in these areas. This would knock not only the whole of the public sector but also their friends in the private sector, who must have been horrified at the proposition which the Leader of the Opposition was putting up. 
They have been, relatively, because they have a good administration which knows how to run the place. The honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  is well aware of the sorts of repercussions that would follow cuts which the Leader of the Opposition would make. The honourable member criticised very strongly the restrained Budget of our Treasurer; so he must have been horrified at the proposition which was put up by his Leader. The Canberra Liberals must have been shattered by it. The local Liberal politicians made their feelings felt in no uncertain manner. I have often wondered why they have been so reluctant to call nominations for the Senate election which could be coming up next year. The Labor Party has 7 excellent candidates for preselection. The local Liberals have been quite reluctant to call for candidates. What is the cause? Are they so shattered by their Leader's policies which confirm the Liberal Party's attitude towards Canberra which was demonstrated so forcefully by its rejection of the Public Service Superannuation Bill. It confirms the view of local Liberals that the Party has written off Canberra. It is a problem for the local Liberals. They have already conceded that the second Senate seat for the Australian Capital Territory will go to their former colleague, the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton).  He must be rubbing his hands with glee at the way his former colleagues are running a campaign in his favour. Local Liberals are quite shattered by the whole thing. 
Do not let us be negative and look at the terrible effects of the Fraser Budget, let us look at how the Australian Capital Territory fared under the very responsible Budget of the Treasurer, Bill Hayden. Overall expenditure has gone up by 13.5 per cent to $79m. That is not a very large sum when one looks at the $ 1,000m that the 
Leader of the Opposition wanted to hand out. There is not much one could really save from that amount. Certainly it is not as much as we wanted. Some very worthwhile social projects will have to be deferred. I refer to the corrective services project. We do not call them gaols in the Australian Capital Territory. We had lined up a very ambitious project which will have to be deferred. Let us look at the matter in some detail. Many new projects will still go on. The social welfare vote has increased from $1.1 79m to $1.595m. It is up by almost $400,000. It includes new projects for a women's refuge, a handicapped children's home, a YMCA hostel and additions to the Goodwin Homes. There have been increases in the vote for emergency housing, pensioners' rent rebates, emergency housekeeping and in the expenditure for orphans and government wards. Would the Leader of the Opposition impose cuts in these areas? Would he regard this as enforced equality, which he abhors so much? The activities of the National Capital Development Commission have been restricted, but many of its big building programs will go on. The Department of the Capital Territory headquarters will go on. The technical college at Bruce will go on. All the new schools will be proceeded with. The sporting complex at Bruce will be completed. Fortunately, most of those things are in my electorate, but there are plenty of schools and new buildings going on in the electorate of my colleague, the honourable member for Canberra  (Mr Enderby). 
I was very interested to hear last night the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Sullivan)  make a quite vicious attack on cultural grants. We are not ashamed of the fact that we have increased the grant to the Canberra Theatre Trust from $120,000 to $143,000. He might be quite happy to live in a cultural desert. I do not know. If he really believes what he said, I am rather sorry for his electorate. Does he carry that belief over into his electorate? Does he go into that? Is he quite prepared to deprive his constituents of cultural grants? There is a big demand for cultural recreation in Canberra. My colleague and I fight very hard to try to meet that demand. It comes from all levels of the community. We make no apologies for increasing the grant from $120,000 to $143,000. All the people, particularly the people from the electorate of Riverina, do not get an opportunity to watch the real live shows in this House. It is a pity they could not have seen the antics of the honourable member for Riverina last night when he was launching an attack on culture for the people. He abhors culture for the people. I am sorry for the people in his electorate. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! The honourable member for Riverina has already spoken in this debate. I think he was heard in comparative silence last night and I think we should extend the same courtesy to the honourable member for Fraser. 
Transport in Canberra is no different from transport anywhere else. There is a big deficit in our transport budget, the same as in any other city in Australia. But this deficit has to be related to the cost to the community of the private car. I think one man driving a car- often a six or eight-cylinder car- to work and parking it on a valuable piece of real estate aU day is a most blatant misuse of resources. We should not be encouraging it; we should be discouraging it. That is precisely what our Ministers attempted to do in trying to contain the deficit in public transport. We are not attempting to discourage public transport by imposing savage increases in fares or by reducing services; we are trying to maintain services with a moderate increase in charges. If extra revenue is to be raised it will tend to come from extra parking fees or possibly from extra registration charges. I think that in the long run this pOliCy Will be in the best interests of Australia. Both the NCDC and the Department of the Capital Territory are exploring avenues of improving public transport. They are doing a lot of research and investigation. They are also providing alternatives in the form of well designed cycle tracks. Already in my electorate we have one which is carrying a good deal of traffic and which has been well received by the community. 
The Leader of the Opposition of course was not precise about where the cuts would be. We do not know what he would do. Would he abolish the health centres? Would he close down the women's refuges? Would he refuse to go on with providing cycle tracks or reduce bus services? Would he cut out the Australian Legal Aid Office? We do not know. He did not say. But obviously he has no real feeling or respect for the people of Canberra and he would wield the axe very heavily. Would he want Canberra to be something less than a national capital that everybody respects and admires? Would he want it to be drawn down to the same standard of inefficiency of other cities in Australia? It rather sounds as though he wants to have some enforced equality on the people of Canberra to force them down to a lower standard. It is not on as far as the Labor Government is concerned. 
Of course the Australian Capital Territory is not just for the people who live here. Every year about 1 million visitors come to this city from every electorate that is represented in this Parliament. I think we have to maintain a standard and have something worth while for them to come to. The Department of the Capital Territory not only looks ofter the local residents but also a lot of its efforts are extended to provide facilities for tourists. It maintains and runs the Tidbinbilla Nature Reserve and aU the nature reserves and national parks in the ACT. This is greatly appreciated by tourists from every electorate and not just those from Canberra. 
And it is going to stay that way. Of course the Leader of the Opposition has expressed a strong dislike for growth centres, possibly because the one in Canberra has been so successful. We have been able to demonstrate here that we can establish cities somewhere other than on the eastern seaboard; that we can establish pleasant urban living facilities in the country; that we can have good education, good health services, good roads and at the same time enjoy the advantages of a rural environment. That is what we have demonstrated here and that is what, given the opportunity, we Will demonstrate in other areas. 
have no doubt that we will continue to do that in- a very forceful way. We have shown that it can be done. It has been successful here and I have no doubt that under the dynamic and inspired leadership of our Minister for the Capital Territory,  Mr Gordon  Bryant, ably assisted by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development,  Mr Tom  Uren, that this city will continue to grow and prosper. It will still serve as a pattern for other growth centres so that other people in Australia will have the opportunity to live under the same sort of conditions which we enjoy in Canberra and which we will continue to enjoy as long as we have a Labor Government. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Urban and Regional Development. I refer to claims that growth centres are invalid because there is no growth. Is that a correct assessment of the present rate of growth in the growth centres? What impact have the growth centres had on excessive rates of growth in our major cities, particularly Sydney and Melbourne? 
I should like to make a few observations about the beef industry in Australia. I think it goes without saying that no responsible person in Australia today should be insensitive to the serious plight of the industry. The present situation has followed the boom in exports of beef in the early 1970s, the subsequent fall in the world demand and the subsequent increase in the domestic supplies. This, of course, has resulted in disastrously low prices over an extended period. These conditions have imposed great hardship on beef producers. The oversupply situation, unfortunately, has been made worse by the ill advised entry into the industry of people who bought in at high prices and people who traditionally were not beef producers but who thought that they were on a good thing in coming into the industry. Many of these producers are in the category commonly called the Pitt Street farmers. Quite often they have used their losses in the beef industry as an offset against profits in other commercial activities and to avoid tax payments. This intrusion into the industry has only exacerbated the situation for the genuine beef producers. 
Fortunately, recently there have been some indications that the market may have reached the bottom and there are at least tentative prospects for some improvement. These indications have not helped the producers in the short term; they have been reflected more in the processing side of the beef industry. But in the long term they should lead to improvement for producers. I refer to 2 particular indications of improvement. The first is the recent call on Australian meat export sources to fill the shortfall in supplies from people exporting0 to North America from Mexico, Central America and Ireland, which may reach as much as 20 000 tonnes and which is expected to be filled from northern meatworks in Australia. The second indication of interest is the official figures, which show that the calf or veal slaughterings in the early months of this year are up  ay  about 75 per cent on those of last year. I refer, of course, to trade slaughterings and not to on-farm slaughterings about which there have been many exaggerated reports. The long term effect of these higher calf and vealer killings will tend to reduce the over-supply situation in time. 
A further indication of the improvement is the very interesting recent half-yearly report of the well known company, Andersons Meat Industries Ltd. The figures in the report indicate that that company has done extremely well out of the plight of the beef producers. It showed a profit increase from $6,006 in the first half of 1974 to $431,835 in the first half of 1975. This is a quite remarkable improvement. The interesting point is that the company was able to turn over 40 per cent more stock with 33 per cent less cash turnover. The report refers to the company being able to develop new markets in South-East Asia, the Pacific region and Scandinavia. This company is to be commended for getting out and taking the initiative in seeking new markets and not sitting down and crying to the Government about the plight of the industry. 
The other most revealing set of figures indicates how the meat wholesalers, whom we generally see as supporters of the Liberal Party, have been profiteering at the expense of the beef producers, who traditionally support the National Country Party. These official figures of how the consumer's dollar spent on beef is shared between the farmer, the wholesaler and the retailer have been released by the New South Wales Agriculture Department. They are very interesting indeed. In 1971 the farmer received 61c in the $1, the wholesaler 7c and the retailer 32c. Just note the remarkable change in the first 6 months of 1975: The farmer received 30c; so his share is down by more than 50 per cent. The retailer received 46c- up approximately 40 per cent, for which there would have been some justification because of increased handling charges since this is a very labour intensive sector of the industry. But when one looks at the figure for the wholesaler one finds that his share is up to 24c. He is the man who turns over hundreds of thousands of head. There has been an increase of 350 per cent in the share of the consumer's dollar going to the wholesaler. 
-Yes. In 1971 the farmer's share was 61c, the wholesaler's 7c and the retailer's 32c. In the first 6 months of 1975 the farmer's share was 30c, the wholesaler's 24c and the retailer's 46c. These are official figures of the New South Wales Agriculture Department. So it is quite apparent that, while the situation has been disastrous for the National Country Party farmers, the meat barons, who traditionally support their colleagues in the Liberal Party, have been having a field day by increasing their share of the consumer's dollar by 350 per cent. It is no wonder that the minimum floor price plan put forward by the New South Wales Minister for Agriculture is not receiving the support of some of the Ministers for Agriculture in the Liberal governments in other States. I refer particularly to the Victorian Minister. Of course, Victoria is the home of the Angliss meat empire. It is apparent that a minimum floor price plan obviously is not in the interests of the meat barons of Australia. 
Apart from making loan funds available to the beef industry, our Government has taken several other positive initiatives to help the industry. In addition to the matters referred to this morning by the Minister for Northern Australia  (Dr Patterson),  I shall refer just briefly to the following: The Minister for Agriculture,  Senator Wriedt,  recently announced that in 1975 there is to be no restriction on the export of stud cattle, no restriction whatever on the export of breeding cattle and no restriction on the export of feeder steers to Japan. In addition, each State and the Northern Territory can export 8000 head of cattle to various regions in South East Asia and the Pacific islands. I am confident that the indications for improvement will continue, that the initiatives taken by our Government will continue and that better times are ahead for the beef producers in Australia. 
-Will the Prime Minister indicate to the House what action the Government intends to take on the draft territorial criminal code that was tabled in the House in June? 
-The Opposition Parties- have a number of very well worn whipping posts which they tend to use with rather regular monotony in debates in this chamber. The red menace, of course, has had a new lease of life recently, but it is hardly appropriate for a Budget debate; so members of the Opposition parties resort to another one of their well worn whipping posts, namely, union bashing. But in this case - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  I think the honourable member is getting around to the estimates before the Chair. 
Well, I just make the point that the union bashing concept in this particular case takes the form of Public Service bashing. When one hits the Public Service in Canberra one hits the whole of the Canberra community. 
I want to point up the ridiculous contradiction between the policies of members of the Opposition, particularly the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  when they want to impose concepts like zero growth rates on the Public Service and at the same time want to stimulate the private sector and to reduce unemployment. The 2 things, of course, are contradictory and everybody knows that in this situation the private sector is very dependent on the public sector. Only 36 per cent of the Canberra work force is employed in the Public Service. This means that a very large percentage of the work force is in the private sector. The building industry in particular depends on the normal development of Canberra as a growth centre and on the Public Service. 
The employment opportunities for young people of course are very dependent on the Public Service. If we were to put zero growth on the Public Service many young people leaving school at the end of this year would be deprived entirely of employment opportunities. Whatever happens in relation to government policy something like 1 5 000 people will come into Canberra in 1975-76. Something like 4000 houses will be built in Canberra in that time. Can anybody really seriously suggest that the Department of the Capital Territory, which is responsible for the administration of the city, can maintain the basic services that are required for 4000 new houses and 15 000 people without any increase in its growth? This would be a ridiculous proposition. I think that the Department will be doing very well to maintain the services with the 4.8 per cent growth rate which has been allowed by this Government. It is all very well to say: 'Cut back on this and cut back on that' but most thinking people will realise that there is a definite limit to the extent to which one can cut back in Canberra and still present the city of Canberra as the seat of government and the national capital. 
Over 1 million visitors come to this city every year. They include a lot of people from overseas. If we want to present the city as a shabby place not worthy of being a national capital, this is precisely what would happen if we attempted to impose zero growth on the Department of the Capital Territory. We just could not maintain the garden city concept and carry out other functions at the same time. 
There is another grave misconception about the Public Service, namely, that it is comprised mostly of people who sit in offices all day, people who have earned the epithet of 'shiny seats '. This is quite misleading. The Department of the Capital Territory is made up of something like 3500 people, many of whom are employed in management areas and who get outside and do a job. A total of 750 people are employed in the parks and gardens and tourism sections of the Department. These people are doing practical jobs in these management areas. The transport section of the Department employs 855 people. The land division has 120 people in its forestry services. Also, 151 people are engaged in the conservation and agricultural sections of the Department. All of these people work on the outside and are doing a real job in the community. Therefore everybody who works in the Department does not sit at a desk. As a matter of fact, only 82 people out of 3500 are employed in the administrative area of the Department. So it is a completely erroneous conception that these people are working in office jobs. Most of the people employed in the Department work in the management area and I think that they are doing a very fine job for this city. 
The Department of the Capital Territory has been limited to a growth rate of 1 3.5 per cent and an expenditure of $79m. It is pleasing to see that priorities have been maintained in relation to the problems of people. We have tended to cut back on the material services but we have maintained and not cut back our priorities for welfare services and projects concerned with physically handicapped people, hostels for young people, women's refuges and programs of this type. 
The other misconception, of course, is that everything in Canberra is all milk and honey and that no-one suffers any inconvenience at all. People think that because Canberra is a new city everything is wonderful. This view is quite wrong too. Canberra has been subject to some faulty planning in the past and many of the deficiencies today can be traced back to bad planning 4 or 5 years ago. Although this Government has gone a long way towards correcting these deficiencies it has not been able to catch up all along the line. People who live in the new areas of Canberra suffer the same lack of amenities as do people in similar circumstances in other cities. They have to wait for bus services, postal facilities, footpaths to be sealed and all of these sorts of things. Many areas do not have schools and the residents have to wait for them to be built. People in Canberra pay high rents, as was mentioned by the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland).  This has happened in spite of our policy of rent control. The Government has done much to overcome problems in this regard. We transported accommodation from construction sites and set it on campuses to make up for a lack of accommodation facilities at the Australian National University and the Canberra College of Advanced Education. We have converted other huts into temporary accommodation for students. Last year we bought quite a few ready built 2-bedroom Hats which private enterprise had constructed but had not been able to sell. The Government came in and bought them in order to get private enterprise going again. As a result of these purchases people on the housing list now have to wait only 6 or 7 months for 2- bedroom flats. This is a big improvement on the situation that existed when this Government came to power. 
Although most people concede that conditions generally are good in Canberra not many people are aware that we have our poor and deprived areas. Anybody who has any doubts about this should have a look at the Causeway which contains houses which were built on a temporary basis in 1925. These houses, which are really little wooden boxes, are in very poor condition. Although we have done our best to maintain them I think that this type of accommodation is a blot on Canberra. It is not the sort of accommodation that should be tolerated in any city, let alone the national capital. I think that people who look at these houses would agree with what I have just said. I am not suggesting that the people at present occupying the houses should be thrown out of them but I think that as the houses become vacated they should be demolished and the residents moved to better accommodation. As I have said, the houses are very sub-standard and were built as temporary accommodation over 50 years ago, but we are still using them. 
I think that the way in which the Department of the Capital Territory maintains the standards in this city with limited funds is a credit to it. We should be proud of what it is doing and the way in which it carries out its functions without adequate funds. I think that the way in which the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Bryant)  has co-operated with the community in relieving some of the problems of the city is a credit to him also. The basic problem in Canberra, of course, is the high cost of living. We have attacked that in a positive way. The Minister has approved and assisted in the establishment of co-operative stores. Measures such as this are already having a marked effect on keeping prices down and in some cases reducing them. I think the Minister deserves the highest commendation for his action in this direction. Generally I think we should be proud of the way in which the Department, ably led by the Minister, maintains this city. 
Has the Minister for Urban and Regional Development seen reports of the statement made by the Deputy Leader of the National Country Party that the National Capital Development Commission has failed to pay its accounts to contractors in Canberra? Will the Minister inform the House whether the NCDC can in fact meet its commitments? 
Is the Prime Minister aware of reports of Indonesian military support for antiFretilin forces which have been attacking Fretilin forces along the border of Portuguese East Timor? Will the Prime Minister tell the House what action the Government is taking to discourage Indonesian military involvement in Portuguese East Timor, an involvement which can lead only to bloodshed and suffering for the Timorese people? Will the Prime Minister give the House any information regarding the fate of 5 Australians missing in Portuguese East Timor? 
Will the Minister for the Capital Territory please advise the House what the implications for the Australian Capital Territory would be if there were to be a further 1 2 per cent cut in the Budget allocation for the A.C.T. as proposed in the Opposition's alternative budget? 
I direct a question to the Prime Minister. In view of the National Capital Development Commission's action in retrenching 21 members of its staff on 17 February and the Prime Minister's subsequent statement, will he give the House a clear undertaking that there will be no retrenchments from the Commonwealth Public Service, or from statutory bodies, even though their staff targets may not be able to be achieved through normal wastage and retirements before 30 June? 
I rise on a matter of privilege. On Friday 20 February I was given information to the effect that I was being investigated by the Australian Criminal Intelligence Centre of the Commonwealth Police. I was told that the reason for the investigation was my involvement in the impending visit to Australia of 2 members of the Fretilin organisation. My involvement in the visit was to arrange a dinner meeting at Parliament House to enable the visitors to discuss the Timor situation with the many members of this Parliament who are seriously perturbed at the events in Timor, as are many other people in the community. I feel that the action of the Commonwealth Police is an unjustified breach of privilege which should not be tolerated and which should cease at once. As patron of the Australian Capital Territory Branch of the East Timor-Australia Association I consider that I and other members of the Association are being inhibited and intimidated in fulfilling the aims of that body. As a member of this Parliament I feel that I am being inhibited and harassed in seeking to obtain the free flow of information from my fellow members and other members of the Association because of the knowledge that I am being investigated by the Commonwealth Police. 
This has been exhibited in a marked reluctance by my associates to discuss the Timor situation with me on the telephone in the knowledge that I am being investigated and that my telephone conversations may be monitored, so that I am being deprived of information which I may wish to convey to the House. I suggest that if a member of this Parliament can be inhibited in this way in carrying out a legitimate and, in this case, a humanitarian function by covert police action, we are creating conditions for the police state to flourish and develop in Australia. I would ask you,  Mr Speaker,  to consider this matter and rule that the action of the police is a breach of my privilege as a member of the Parliament in that it interferes with the carrying out of my legitimate functions as a member of this Parliament. 
-Will the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs give an assurance that no redundancies, retrenchments or transfers will be made in respect of present staff of the Industries Assistance Commission? Will he give a further assurance that no amalgamation of the IAC or parts of the IAC will take place with any department or any other statutory authority which might result in redundancies, retrenchments or transfers of IAC staff? 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, may I, through you, offer my very sincere congratulations to the  Speaker  and to the  Chairman  of Committees on their appointment and assure them of my full co-operation in assisting them to carry out their duties. It was of interest yesterday to see the way in which supporters of the Government responded to the diversion which was created by  Mr Murdoch  in his Press statements. Honourable members opposite were most anxious to seize this diversion, of course, to divert the attention of this Parliament and the public away from the grave economic problems which are building up for this Government. It is understandable, of course, that they should seek a diversion when the problems of unemployment, cuts in government spending, increases in sales tax and reduction in the purchasing power of people's incomes are building up to such vast proportions in the electorate. It is not surprising that many Liberal supporters are coming into my office and complaining bitterly of the way Government measures are affecting their enterprises, their businesses, the way they live and their prospects of securing homes. It is not surprising too that quite a few of them are coming along and saying to me: 'The way our Government is performing is starting to make the Labor Government look good'. This is being said many times in Canberra today. I have some sympathy for my friend, the new honourable member for Canberra  (Mr Haslem)  knowing that he has to face up to these sorts of criticisms in his electorate too at this time. 
It is not surprising either, of course, to see  Mr Murdoch  looking for some diversion because it must be very embarrassing for him to have to attempt to cover up for the conditions which this Government is creating, a Government which he played such a predominant part in bringing to power. It must be very distasteful for him to have to cover up for the problems that are being created for the unemployed and the disadvantaged, and the problems in the welfare area. It must be very distasteful for him to have to cover up and try to manipulate and mislead people as to what is the real nature of this Government. He succeeded before, of course, in creating a diversion, but I do not think he will on this occasion because I think more and more, from day to day, people are becoming aware of the real nature and the real philosophy of this Government. 
To refer directly to the Governor-General's Speech, I think the Government should be congratulated for the way it has written into the Governor-General's Speech such a blatant and unabashed exposition of the way conservative elements see the capitalist system operating effectively in this country. This is spelt out very plainly. In the Speech itself and in many of the supporting speeches of back bench members the old, conservative cliches have tumbled out in unfettered profusion. Among some of the cliches used were: 'we must encourage self-reliance and common sense in the Australian people'; 'we must all work hard'; 'we must be independent'; 'we must stand on our own feet'; and 'we must assert our great Australian individuality'. The assumption is that if we do all these things we will be well on the way to establishing a truly liberal and humane society. 
The honourable member says 'Hear, hear'. We are led to believe that everything in the garden will be lovely, there will be no inflation and no unemployment if we just do what these wonderful people, our wonderful leaders, are telling us. Such is the mythology of the Governor-General's Speech and the Government's so-called liberal philosophy. The reality, of course, is something quite different, as anyone of any discernment will know and as more and more people are becoming painfully aware as the harsh policies of this Government begin to bear heavily on more and more people as the days go by. 
It is quite plain that the overriding objective of the policy is to strengthen and preserve capitalism and free enterprise in the interests of people of property, the mining interests, the commercial interests and their corporate friends on the stock exchanges and those people of the professions who help to sustain that wealth and property. Profit making and profit taking is the essence of the exercise, whilst welfare and full employment objectives are only considered if they are compatible with and subservient to the profit objective. 
The world-wide recession and its Australian counterpart have provided the political climate to grant concessions and incentives to the owners and manipulators of capital. This is what this Government has set out to do in a blatantly arrogant and harsh manner irrespective of the effects it has on disadvantaged people. The contradiction, of course, between the mythology of what the Speech sets out to do and the reality of what the Government is actually doing has been spelt out very forcibly and very well by many excellent speeches of Opposition members. I might add, that it has been spelt out too by some outspoken criticism by some of the more senior members of the Government back bench who find the hypocrisy of the Speech rather too much even for their well-conditioned hides. It is quite obvious from the Speech and from the actions of the Government that when it refers to 'regulating business activity to prevent exploitation of consumers' what it really means is reviewing the Trade Practices Act to ease the regulation of business. Goodness knows, it was timid enough even with a Labor Government. 
In Canberra, for instance, Government action means depriving the private sector of long service leave payments and abolition of the Government Conveyancing Office, handing conveyancing back to the legal profession where the cost will no doubt double. It also means reverting to land auction and adjusting the reserve prices of allocated lands to prices obtained at auction. It means putting pressure on the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly to lift rent and price controls in Canberra. It is amazing what a devastating collection of measures these are to protect and avoid exploitation of the consumer. 
Another strong plank in the GovernorGeneral's Speech is more effective assistance to the disadvantaged, but government action has singled out disadvantaged people for special consideration. These are the special considerations they have been given: A 50c increase in prescription charges; the delaying of a legitimate pension increase; and for pensioners who do not survive without the increase the abolition of pensioner funeral benefits; a reduction in welfare services through the imposition of staff ceilings; and a heavy reduction of overseas aid programs to deprived countries. By these generous measures our Government extends special consideration to the disadvantaged not only in this community but also in other countries! 
A phrase such as 'giving effective educational opportunities to the disadvantaged and handicapped' sounds wonderful. In Canberra it means: Depriving the Koomarri workshop of Government printing jobs; scrapping the work experience program for intellectually handicapped people; cutting down on remedial teaching and other special classes as well as reducing ancillary staff in our schools. All this has happened not only in Canberra but also all over Australia in every State. 
The Governor-General's Speech refers briefly to self-government in the Australian Capital Territory. Here again, the Government's statement is quite ambiguous. It refers to giving the Legislative Assembly responsibility for financial management and decision-making in Canberra's local affairs. A notable omission of course is that no reference is made to giving the Legislative Assembly legislative powers. What nonsense is this? We call it a Legislative Assembly but we will not give it legislative powers. The fear amongst local advocates of self-government on both sides of the political spectrum is that the Assembly will end up as something even less than a municipal-type council. This is not the intention of the advocates of self-government. It is not the intention of the report of the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory last year. I hope it is not the intention of the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Staley).  The Government has set up a task force to report on the matter. If the task force does not recommend giving the Assembly legislative powers the Minister and the Government if necessary should make sure that they are given because it would be quite farcial to call it a Legislative Assembly and not give it legislative powers. 
The ultimate in double-talk in the GovernorGeneral's Speech is the expressed wish to expand job opportunities. This should be interpreted as meaning staff ceilings in the Australian Public Service, which I am afraid will require retrenchments if they are to be achieved or, alternatively, hundreds of people going on unattached lists with no prospect of getting another job and ultimate retrenchment. It also means the breaking down of valuable professional institutions such as the National Capital Development Commission as well as a severe cut in that organisation's works budget, thus inducing serious unemployment in the building trades. The NCDC has taken a long time to build up and its morale has been completely shattered by recent proposed retrenchments. 
The investment allowance is a typical measure in line with this Government's overall policy but the amendments just announced could not in any way be seen as a measure to reduce the Budget deficit. I know it is said that a Budget deficit will not be avoided this year, but the investment allowance will not improve the chances of avoiding a deficit next year. It will make administration more complicated and expensive. It still does not help small businessmen investing in equipment costing $500 or less. Overriding the significance of the investment allowance are the serious consequences of the Government's cuts in consumer spending and the effect that this policy will have on overall demand. Businessmen will not invest merely to please this Government if the Government does not play its part in stimulating demand. The Government's measures affect demand not only by increasing unemployment but also by increasing indirect taxes and reducing overtime, thus reducing the spending power of those still in employment. 
I will say more about them later. I am concerned about not just those who do not have a job but also those with jobs who are having their incomes reduced. So much for the lofty talk of more freedom for people to choose the style of life they want. That is very relevant to my friend's interjection about unemployment. What choice has an unemployed person? I believe that the Government is making a major blunder in attributing Australia's economic problems to excessive government and excessive government spending. There is no theoretical or empirical evidence to suggest that money spent in the public sector is in some way bad and that money spent in the private sector is good in an economic sense. As other honourable members have pointed out, it is a dangerous illusion to see the public and private sectors of the economy as clearly defined separate packages. They are closely interdependent. Nowhere is this more evident than in the Australian Capital Territory. The Government is merely reducing the deficit by reducing demand in the economy, thereby deliberately creating unemployment. 
The ill-advised 10/2 per cent Australian savings bonds have succeeded brilliantly in reversing the whole trend of interest rates upwards with a subsequent dampening of business incentive. The Government is applying yesterday's discredited remedies to a set of economic circumstances for which there is no modern precedent. Its policies represent a desperate effort to restore profits at the expense of jobs and welfare. Its policies are insular and parochial, showing little appreciation that world economic instability emanates from the ending of the era of United States of America hegemony of the economy of the world- an era which would have ended sooner except for the Vietnam war. The Government's policies will not succeed, as is already apparent. I suggest that, if the present policies continue, in 12 months time unemployment will still be unacceptably high, the growth rate of the economy will have fallen and inflation will still be with us. When that stage is reached the Government will be forced to stimulate the public sector in the physically productive areas of housing, public buildings, hospitals, schools, roads, transport, etc in order to create jobs to enable a consumer-led recovery to get under way. That is what it should be doing now but it will not do so until it is too late. 
In relation to foreign policy, we can be certain that at the end of the Government's term Australia will be even less independent than it is now. The continuation of the operation of foreign bases on our soil such as Pine Gap, nurrunga and North- West Cape, together with the proposed Omega base, merely means further subservience to and dependence on the United States. None of these bases is relevant to the defence of Australia. They merely serve United States global strategy, including nuclear strategy, and increase the possibility of Australia becoming a nuclear target in the future. Cockburn Sound is a vital part of our defence system- there is no denying that- but the decision to open it to nuclear-powered and nuclear-armed United States warships is not. It will undoubtedly invite reprisals against the citizens of Perth in the event of nuclear conflict between the super powers. 
You must not live there. Our immediate neighbours support the United Nations proposal for a zone of peace in the Indian Ocean. This proposal is not supported by the United States of America or by the Union of Soviet Social Republics. We support the United States base on Diego Garcia. Our neighbours can only interpret this Government's policy as a further dependence on and domination by the United States of America. 
It is interesting to look at our enforced economic dependence on Japanese trade. This is being reinforced by the proposed uranium trading. This, together with our policy towards Timor being dictated to us by Indonesia, means that there is now very little scope left for genuine independent initiatives in Australian foreign policy. This Government's policies will lead to precisely the reverse situation. 
Just as Australians cannot be insulated from the current instability of the world economic scene, neither can we expect to be insulated from the dramatic and far-reaching social changes going on throughout the world, particularly in the emerging nations. History will not stand still for this conservative coalition while the Government pursues its foolish endeavours to reconstruct a blatantly  laissez-faire  free enterprise, elitist society based on the Prime Minister's outmoded philosophy of survival of the fittest. The Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  can continue to mouth all the voluminous economic cliches at his command. The Governor-General can talk glibly of this unique opportunity of establishing a 'liberal, humane society ' in the Government's terms. History Will not stand still while the Government endeavours to turn the clock back to some long past golden age of open exploitation of resources and people by the Government's men of property, by the Government's corporate partners of the stock exchanges and by the professional people, all of whom have exploited the Australian community for so long. 
In the long run, these days will finish. Government supporters may sit in this House full of false pride and complacency in their numbers. The Government should be warned that a growing feeling of loathing is developing within the Aus.tralian community, a loathing of the falsity of what Government supporters profess to stand for; a loathing for this Government's methods of assuming power as well as a growing awareness of the gross injustices done to the Labor Party in government. In a relatively short time I suggest that history will catch up with those who now sit opposite and their philosophy of the survival of the fittest. I foresee that they will be swept from office by an equally volatile but opposite reaction to that which swept the Labor Party from office. When that happens all the rhetoric contained in the Governor-General's Speech will be seen for what it is- a collection of shallow and empty phrases. 
I support the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  in opposing this Bill. I want to make two or three fairly brief points. The first concerns the question of the cost of inspection not being included at the point of production. I had hoped the Government would have advanced some logical, rational sort of argument why it should not be included in the cost of production. No  speaker  opposite has attempted to do so. Why should the cost of inspection be not included in the cost of production, the same way as the cost of droving, killing, refrigerating or anything else is included? The Government is not consistent because it agrees that the cost of disease eradication should be carried by the industry. The Government takes a completely illogical view of the cost of inspection and says that it should not be carried by the industry. I refer to the Green Paper which was produced for the Australian Labor Party Government and which was commended very widely by all sections of primary industry for the wisdom of its broad policies. It spelt out very clearly that the meat export inspection charge should be a part of the total cost of production. The Green Paper continues: 
It should be carried by the industry as a whole and passed on to the consumer- 
It is not carried by the producer; it is passed on by the producer-  as a legitimate cost factor, just as killing and refrigeration are regarded as production costs. There is no logical reason why such costs should be met out of government revenue, rather than being paid for by the user. Why should a particular input receive special consideration in this way? 
Such is the irrationality of the Government's approach to this question. The other main matter of concern in relation to the lifting of this charge is this: If the resultant benefit went to the producer we would have no bitch at all; but it is quite obvious that there is no way in which it can go to the producer, even though the Government expresses a rather pious wish that it may go to the producer or the hope that it will go to the producer. Many producers who send their cattle to the yards quite often do not know whether the cattle will become export cattle or will be sold on the domestic market. Some killing works are devoted entirely to the export market, of course; but quite a few are engaged in both the domestic market and the export market. How can the producers get that money back when they do not know when they sell their cattle in the yard whether or not the cattle will be exported? 
Of course, the lifting of the charge will benefit one section of the industry only, and that is the wholesaler. It was interesting to see our friend, the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume),  shedding crocodile tears for the poor wholesaler. Really, when one looks at the facts one realises that there are no grounds for worrying about the wholesaler. He is doing pretty well. That becomes clear if one looks at these figures that I have before me. These figures were produced by the New South Wales Department of Agriculture and they show the break-up of the consumer dollar and the way in which that break-up changed between 1971 and 1975. These figures will be quite enlightening, particularly to the housewife when she learns where her dollar is going. In 1971 the farmer was getting 61c of the consumer dollar which was paid for beef; the wholesaler was getting 7c; and the retailer was getting 32c. In the first 6 months of 1975 the farmer's share dropped back to 30c. So his share was cut in half. The wholesaler at that time was getting 24c, which represents a mere 350 per cent increase in his share of the consumer dollar. Yet this man opposite is shedding crocodile tears for the wholesaler. 
I am quoting his share of the consumer dollar. The honourable member does not like hearing it, does he? 
I have some more figures which relate to the honourable member's company, and those figures will be interesting too. So the wholesaler's share of the consumer dollar increased by 350 per cent. In 1975 the retailer received 46c. There is some justification for that because the retail end is very labour intensive and there have been heavy increases in wages. I have quoted the increase in the wholesaler's share, and he is the man who handles not just a few beasts but hundreds of thousands of carcasses. Yet he has received this massive increase in his share of the consumer dollar. These figures were produced by the New South Wales Department of Agriculture. I have the figures here. I defy the honourable member to contradict them. 
All right, let us get down to costs. Let us talk about some actual figures. I have here 3 lots of figures, and interestingly enough one of them relates to the firm in which the honourable member has shares, namely the Tancred Bros Company. In 1974 Tancred Bros made a profit of $112,000; in 1975 it made a profit of $213,000. 
The company paid a dividend. 
The honourable member was shedding crocodile tears over the fact that the turnover was down. Sure it was down. The company was buying very cheaply and making double its profit on a much smaller turnover. So what humbug and contradiction is this? 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General. I refer to the AttorneyGeneral's statement in the House on Thursday, 4 March, that there did not appear to be any substance in my allegations of investigation by Commonwealth Police arising from my association with the Fretilin movement. I now suggest to the Attorney-General that he has misled the Parliament, either wittingly or unwittingly. In order to resolve this matter I ask the AttorneyGeneral: Will he call for all papers concerning the Commonwealth Police investigation of organisations concerned with the Portuguese East Timor Independence Movement? Will he particularly call for the diary of the Commonwealth Police officer who questioned Miss Joan Ansell, Secretary of the Australia East Timor Association on a number of occasions between 1 1 February and 24 February? Will he also call for the diary of the Commonwealth Police officer who interviewed me in my office on Friday, 20 February? Will he call for a report on allegations which have been made to me that the Indonesian Embassy made a gift of alcoholic beverages to the value of approximately $2,000 to the Commonwealth Police in Canberra over the Christmas period? 
I shall be very brief. I want to make a couple of points which are.very important to new members of the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory. I had the privilege of working on the previous Committee last year. I just want to make the point that this year's Committee should be seen as working in a quite different environment from that in which Committees have worked in the past. This is mainly due, of course, to the advent of self-government in the Australian Capital Territory. The Committee will be charged with a task of working out new relationships with the Legislative Assembly. It will be charged also with working out new relationships with the National Capital Development Commission, if that instrumentality survives- and of course it may not do so. Further, it will be charged with working out new relationships with the Department of the Capital Territory and with the Minister for the Capital Territory. 
With the. advent of self-government, of course, there will be many areas of planning in Canberra that should not involve the Committee at all and should not in fact involve the Parliament. I think that the members of the Committee should be able to see Canberra as having 3 distinct rolesits role as the seat of government and the home of the national Parliament, its role as the national capital, which is a very different role, and its role as a community of 200 000 Australian citizens who until recently have been discriminated against in terms of representation. Fortunately now they have much more representation than they previously enjoyed. I hope that all the members who represent the Australian Capital Territory- the 2 members in the House of Representatives and the two in the Senatewill be members of this Committee. That will make the Committee much more relevant to the people of Canberra than it has been in the past. 
Many members of Parliament have served the Committee very well but unfortunately they did not have a very close knowledge of Canberra. They came from the States. They did good work, but they were not able to give the same service to the Committee as can be given by people who live in Canberra. There are many members in both Houses who lay down the law about Canberra, who say all sorts of things about it but who know very little about Canberra outside the area between the airport and Parliament House. If some of them were taken out to Tuggeranong or to "the back of Belconnen they would not be able to find their way back to the centre of Canberra unless the Captain Cook memorial water jet was turned on. That is about how much they know about Canberra. 
The role of the Committee will be terribly important. Domestic issues such as how we look after our dogs, during what hours we drink and whether we have nude bathing are matters for the Legislative Assembly and this Parliament should not be concerned with them in any way at all, any more than the members of this Parliament are concerned with those sorts of matters which are the responsibility of State parliaments. We do not have a State parliament here. If the Legislative Assembly is given its proper role it will in many respects take over the role of a State government, although of course the Australian Capital Territory will not be a sovereign State. This Parliament will have the power of veto, as it should have. But these domestic matters should be the concern of the people of Canberra who are mature people and who should not be treated as second rate citizens. 
It is very important that this Committee should not be just a listening committee whose members sit down and listen to the very rational arguments of the National Capital Development Commission or any other planning body. The NCDC is very adept at putting rational arguments. I am not saying that it is not always right. Usually it is but sometimes it is wrong and sometimes grievously wrong. It is up to this Committee to be very perceptive and inquisitive and to explore in detail and not just listen to the arguments in the conference room and around the table. The members should go out and have a look at the problems on the ground. The tragic event of the flooding in the Woden Valley which resulted in the drowning of 6 people not long ago resulted from a planning blunder. It is possible that if the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory had done a little more perceptive work and looked at the situation a little more closely this tragedy may have been, avoided. Members of the Committee should go out and look at the planning concepts that the NCDC puts up to them in the new areas such as Tuggeranong. 
There are many very important problems with which the Committee will no doubt deal. The Committee must try to be involved and to avoid the grave mistakes and planning errors that have been made in the past. I refer to such grave planning errors as the lack of social planning and the lack of recreational facilities and amenities for people in the new suburbs, particularly in Belconnen. There we have seen planning gone mad. The role of this Committee should be to act as a watchdog to see that there is a proper balance of planning in the overall development of Canberra. There should be adequate provision for public transport. In the past there have been grave inadequacies and we are paying for them now. Some of them have been the result of political decisions and not just of the decisions of the planners. It is worth while noting that it took the Australian Labor Party Government 3 years to build up sufficient numbers of buses to do the job of transport in Canberra but now the buses are lying idle because the Government does not see fit to employ enough drivers to keep them on the road. That is the fact of the situation. 
The Labor Government passed the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Bill which provided for the management of the Gudgenby Park. I hope that the gazettal of the park is still going forward and that money will be available to provide the staff to maintain that park. It is not there for just the Canberra people. Over a million visitors come to Canberra every year, and this is about the last recreational area available to the people of Canberra and the people of Australia in the Australian Capital Territory. Another important aspect of planning to which the Committee should give some thought or in which it should try to become involved is the need to integrate our public recreational facilities and our educational facilities so that we do not lock up our school facilities at half past three and thus prevent the public from using them. If we have a heated pool it should be planned in such a way that it can be used by the school during the day and then by the community. These things have not been done in the past. They are pretty fundamental things. This Committee should be alert to see that they are done in the future. I think that the Committee 's main object will be to see that there is no turning back of the clock in Canberra, or that the clock is not turned back further, so that the quality of life is not lowered any more than it has been lowered during the 3 months reign of this new Government. I hope that the Committee will be effective in  thisrespect. 
In conclusion I must pay a tribute to the late  Chairman  of the Committee,  Senator Bert  Milliner. Bert was one of those people who did not just sit around the conference table. He went out on the job and had a look at the problems confronting Canberra. He went to a great deal of trouble at the expense of his own time in a very conscientious way to serve that Committee. I have no doubt that the work which he put into, that Committee to some extent brought about his early passing. I can assure everybody that Bert Milliner served that Committee in a most commendable way and the people of Canberra are very grateful for what he did for the Committee. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I support the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  in seeking to amend this Bill by asking the Government to carry out not only the short-term measures which are urgently needed but also the long-term recommendations which I believe are contained in the Australian Industry Development Corporation report and which, I understand, are subject to some amendment. We are faced here with a very serious human tragedy. It is the tragedy of perpetuating, by subsidy, a situation where a group of primary producers- people who have chosen that particular way of life and who normally would be expected to be regarded as landed proprietors running their own businesses- have degenerated into the position where their style of life is more in keeping with a feudal sort of peasantry. This is the human tragedy with which this part of primary industry and many other parts are faced. It is one which we must face. I do not think we are facing it the way we should. On paper these people have a very valuable asset in their orchards which most of them have been on for many years. They have poured profits into the orchards. The orchards represent very large investments, sometimes hundreds of thousands of dollars. This is an illusion. Quite often it is a worthless security which they have. It is one on which they cannot borrow and on which they are not making a living. If the financial institutions are not prepared to lend on this sort of security we must question the morality and the responsibility of using government funds to perpetuate the situation. That is precisely what we have been doing for years. 
The other tragedy is that this situation has been quite apparent for many years. It is not something that has come to light in the last few years, as the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  seemed to imply. It has been there for many years, as I will point out later. Although the signs were there and it was apparent to people in the industry, we now face a situation in which about 80 per cent of this season's crop is not sold. There is very little prospect of its being sold. It is being put on the shelf at considerable cost to the community. I submit that the whole thing is a fiasco. It represents a tragic misuse of the resources of this country- not only the physical resources such as the land, the irrigation water, the chemicals that go into producing the crop, the fuel that is used to cultivate the orchards, the tinplate to can the crops, the paper to supply the cartons, but also the financial resources of the Reserve Bank of Australia and many other banking institutions and other financial institutions. Most importantly and most tragically, it represents a misuse of human resources. People work on these properties for all sorts of hours year in year out. Yet they reach a standard of living more akin to that of a peasant than of a landed proprietor in our great Australian community. 
The situation raises the question of responsibility. Where does the responsibility lie for this sorry situation? It lies in several areas. In one sense one can say that it lies within the industry itself. Surely it should have seen the writing on the wall; it should have advised the people concernedthe co-operatives, the canneries. There were plenty of messages for them that this situation was arising. Really nothing very substantial was done. They just went on living hopefully in a sort of illusionary world. I think there is a very grave responsibility on the Fruit Industry Sugar Concession Committee. I do not know on what rational basis this Committee should have recommended a substantial increase in price last year, when all the signs were that this could not be substantiated on the world market. I think there has been an act of irresponsibility there, a sense of wishful thinking that certain conditions that it wanted to happen would happen when there were no real prospects that they would happen. 
The other area of responsibility where I think there has been very grave irresponsibility was the price war that went on last year between the various co-operatives and the private canneries. This is an interesting phenomenon because one sees here in action the philosophy of free enterprisethe survival of the fittest. So they have a great old price war in which everybody loses- nobody wins. I do not know whether they are influenced by the Prime Minister's philosophy of the survival of the fittest, but certainly they tried it out. It did not work. It cost the industry $4m for a price war which was quite illogical and irrational. Having failed, they want a socialist solution to the problem. They want government subsidies. This is a quite interesting analysis of how the Country Party members think. They spout all these things about free enterprise, the survival of the fittest and open competition. Then, when that does not work, they come back to a socialist solution. This has been going on for years. 
Well, I am consistent. I am saying that the Government Parties want it too.. The Labor Party is honest about it. We have always supported the socialist solution. We support the socialist solution for rural problems. The Government Parties pretend that they do not; but in fact they do. That is the difference. I am talking about responsibility in other areas. I think that the main culprit when it comes to irresponsibility is the Government itself. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order!  I think that the honourable member for Fraser might be left to make his speech on his own, without interjections. 
-The Liberal National Country Party Government has not proceeded with a restructuring program. In fact it has encouraged expansion at a time when there was no rational reason why it should. There is no question but that if governments build into people an expectation that they will get subsidies year after year then naturally there is some encouragement for them to expand rather than encouragement for them to cut back on production, which is what should have been happening. The Government cannot claim that it did not know the situation or that it was not warned. It has been spelt out many times in the industry's own journals. I quote from the 1970 report of the Australian Canned Fruits Board- that is 6 years ago. The report states:  ... the Board has been advocating caution to growers contemplating new plantings, and at the risk of sounding repetitive, attention is drawn to the doubtful prospects of marketing additional quantities. Despite efforts over an extended period by the Board to expand existing markets, and efforts by canners to develop new markets, the prospect of disposing of annual production at its present level is not encouraging if economic returns for both canner and grower are to be obtained. In common with other Australian primary industries there is a need for reconstruction at the primary level. 
That was in 1970. Yet our friend the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  has tried to tell us that everything was lovely then and it is only in the last few years that this problem has developed. It has existed for 10 years and the Government really has done nothing about it. We were in government for only 3 years. The present Government parties have been in office for the rest of the time. 
The other proposition that has been put is that because our wages are high we cannot compete with overseas countries. Are honourable members on the other side of the House suggesting that our labour standards should be such that we can compete with cheap, peasant, coloured labour in South Africa; or are they suggesting that we should compete with the very low standard of living in Greece? Of course they are not. If we cannot compete with other countries on our standard of living, if we cannot compete on the basis of our natural resources, which are fairly extensive, if we cannot compete by adopting the latest technology and innovation, then we should restructure. That is what this industry should be doing. The other suggestion of propping up the industry is quite irrelevant. That is just fiddling with the problem. Certainly in 1972 the Government did act in a reconstruction scheme and there was some success with the tree pulling scheme, particularly with peaches. Unfortunately, there has been little success with pears. In Tasmania the scheme certainly has reduced production and has allowed some people, such as old people and widowers, to get out of the industry with something. So, in that respect the scheme has been fairly successful. There seems to be some reluctance to go on with that scheme, but in principle it is much better in the long term to pay people to pull the trees out than to keep on producing something and wasting resources on something which they know they cannot sell. We have to face up to that situation. The Industries Assistance Commission report recommended a short term continuation of this program, which the Opposition is supporting tonight; but the Commission also asked that a complete and thorough investigation be made of the whole industry. 
Then I come to the Australian Industry Development Corporation report which was commissioned by the Labor Government and which for some reason or other this Government is sitting on. I do not accept the claim of the honourable member for Angas that it is not up to date. No report is up to date. It will never be up to date. There is no need for it to be that up to date because we know the problem has been there for 10 years. Bringing it up to date will not change the problem. Certainly some adjustment may be made to the means that one uses to deal with the problem. But perhaps the secrecy about this report is somehow connected with the fact that it may recommend some rationalisation between co-operative canneries and some big public companies. I appreciate the fact that the Government may want to protect the interests of the share holders of those big public companies and so does not want to make public in advance any proposition that it may be recommending an amalgamation of canneries. 
There is no question about the Labor Party's support of the scheme to give immediate relief to these unfortunate people who are caught in that position. We do not want to see any sector of Australian primary industries reduced to a state of peasantry, and that is what is happening to many of them. We want to see them saved from that situation, but we do not want to see them saved just for this time; we want to see them given assistance. We want to see the people involved retrained and compensated to get out of the industry if that is the only alternative. There are other alternatives to production on this type of land. I do not accept that all our primary industries are bankrupt. We are still importing considerable quantities of primary products. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! According to the list before me the honourable member for Murray is listed to speak next in this debate. I suggest that he keep his remarks to himself until he is making his speech to the House. 
I conclude by saying that there are alternative uses for this land other than the growing of crops that cannot be sold. I do not accept that all our primary industries are in a state of bankruptcy. We still import some primary products. We still import soya bean meal and soya bean oil, which, if the right resources were put into research, I think could be grown in this country. We have been fiddling with that for many years but we have not got any great results. However, I think there are prospects for that particular crop. There are other new avenues which also should be expanded. I do not accept that that land cannot be put to any other use if the trees are pulled out of it. The great problem in orchards, of course, is that it always takes a long time and a lot of investment before the trees even start bearing. I know that people who have made plantings, and who have put the investment into those trees are very reluctant to pull them out. But the reality of the situation is that there is no use growing produce that cannot be sold on the world market. It was quite obvious many years ago that the European Economic Community would gravely affect our export of primary products and it is time we faced up to the reality of the situation and got down to retructuring these industries in a practical way. 
I have pleasure in supporting the member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  in his support of this Bill. I was pleased to hear the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  talking about the leadership qualities of a past leader of the dried fruits industry. Any industry, primary or secondary, is very dependent upon good leadership and good leadership, of course, involves those leaders telling the people the truth about their industry. They should tell the industry what its prospects are and make a reasonable and sound judgment. They should not lead the industry up the garden path and into having false expectations that it can continue to live on subsidies and can call on the Government for subsidies whenever it wants them. In my considerable experience with rural people, I have found them as a body to be a very independent people and, as a group of people, the last people in the world who want to depend on subsidies or handouts. They want to stand on their own feet. If a group of primary producers ask for a subsidy, or if they need it, you can be quite sure that they are in a desperate situation. I think that that is the position in this instance. To be able to anticipate all the variations in the markets, the whims and fancies of the consumer and the vagaries of the weather, a leader would need the wisdom of Solomon. It just cannot be done. But, still, I think we should expect leaders to be honest in assessing the prospects of their industry. They should tell people the truth about their prospects and not mislead them. 
The honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Fisher)  was quite concerned about the movement of people out of the rural industries. I can well understand that, because he represents a rural electorate. He seemed to think that this would be a great calamity for this country. I cannot agree with that because this has been going on for 100 years. Australia was highly urbanised by about 1890. There is nothing new about this. It is an historical process which has always gone on in Australia and in every other Western country, and it will continue to go on. It will not be the end of the world if more people have to move out of the rural industries. The role of government is to see that people can get out of rural industries without experiencing great hardship and a great deal of trauma, and that is what we should be doing. Nevertheless, even though people are moving out of rural industries- and I have said that this is a continuing process- rural industries are still a very vital part of our export earning process. They are responsible for producing about 50 per cent of our export earnings, and in real terms the figure is growing each year. So the rural sector is not something we can disregard; it is a very important sector. But just because people are moving out of it, we should not think that this is the end of the world. The rural industries are becoming less labour intensive and more capital intensive, and I think this trend will continue. 
The dried vine fruits industry is a classical example of a rural industry that is dependent on export markets. Here we have a subsidy which is based on the cost of production and, which is in no way related to the market where you are trying to sell the produce. Because of that the payment of this subsidy is not a very effective way in which to help these people. I disagree with the member for Angas who says that the payment of this subsidy has the effect of cushioning major price changes. It has a very minimum effect; it has a slight cushioning effect. From my quick arithmetic, which is based on the figures that the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  gave, the subsidy which has been paid in past years represents about one per cent to 3 per cent of the income of the industry. So the subsidy is a help, for sure, but it certainly does not cushion major changes in price. Of course, the future prospects are not terribly good. The prospects are that the gap between the market and our costs will narrow. The market will come down and the costs will go up. So the future prospect is that unless we do something about restructuring the industry, more and more pressure will be applied to increase the subsidy. 
Of course, the dried vine fruits stabilisation scheme is not the answer to the problem, because the main destabilising factors in the industry are the variation in the cost of producing the product, the yield variations due to seasonal changes, and the world market prices. The subsidy has no effect at all on these 3 destabilising factors that this industry gets caught up in. It is unrelated to the cost of production, and it is of very minimal assistance to the industry. The main stable factors in the industry, of course, are the domestic market, which is increasing regularly, and the domestic prices, which have been fairly stable. I think that the honourable member for Angas talked about our importing dates from Turkey. I do not know whether dates are grown in his area, but if we want the Turks to buy our wool, wheat and things like that, it is fair enough that we should buy a few dates from them. I do not think there is anything wrong with that. The real answer, of course, is in structural change. I believe that in this situation structural change will take place in a natural sequence of events as the profit margin is squeezed out. I do not think that it will be a traumatic experience, as happened in the canning industry, because the capital investment is not as great and the time span in bringing vines into production is not as great. There is not so much capital tied up. So I think there will be a more natural movement out of the industry. It is the role of government to discourage new plantings and to try to ease people out. This was one of the reasons why we introduced the National Employment and Training scheme and one of the reasons why we are opposed to the manner in which the Government is attempting to wreck that scheme or to reduce its effectiveness. The Opposition supports stabilisation, but we do not support it as a matter of course. We think each industry should be looked at on its merits and the scheme tailored to suit that industry. We should not build up an expectation of subsidy for ever and a day. 
If the market for the product is not related to the cost of production, we must look at a more permanent and long term solution. That is why we look forward to the Industries Assistance Commission report. We hope that it will point the way to a sound restructuring of the industry and enable people to get out if they can. The honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  implied that I said that they could grow soya beans instead of vines. I did not imply that at all. I mentioned soya bean as an example of a product which we are still importing. I think some of our vine growers could do worse than bail out of the Murray Valley and go to the Darling Downs. 
They certainly would find the weather conditions there much easier to live with than those in some areas of the Murray Valley. 
We do not want to perpetuate a situation in which the primary producer is not a free trader or an independent landed proprietor, but is trapped in a situation in which he is not making any money, has a lot of capital tied up in a property, is not making a living and cannot get out. This is the situation that we must try to overcome. We certainly do not want to perpetuate a situation in which primary producers are working all sorts of hours under difficult conditions and making $2,000 a year. Part of the Australian Labor Party's philosophy is that the resources of this country should be shared reasonably well among all the producers in the country. 

 Mr GILES (Angas)-Mr  Deputy Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Bonnett)Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Health. I refer to the hostel for intellectually handicapped children at Bruce in the Australian Capital Territory - 
It is always interesting in rural debates to hear the way in which supporters of the Government, particularly members of the National Country Party of Australia, continue to be in love with the myth that Australia continues to ride on the back of the rural producer. It is a myth and as I said last week there has been a consistent historical move away from the rural sector over a long time and this will continue to happen. But honourable members opposite seem to see this as a tragedy. They do not accept it as an historical fact. What they seem to be saying is that they would rather retain people in rural areas living in a state of poverty rather than see some of them move out and reconstruct their industries so that they can acquire a reasonable standard of living This is, of course, what it should be about. If people in the rural industries cannot be sustained in a viable situation the Government should be aiming in the long term to reconstruct them and to help them move out so that those remaining can acquire a reasonable standard of living. But a large number of Government speakers do not acknowledge this and persist to be infatuated with this agrarian myth that we still ride on the sheep's back. I acknowledge that primary industry is still a tremendously important sector of our whole economy. I think everyone knows that something Uke 50 per cent of our export earnings come from primary industries. So it is in the national interest- not just in the interests of city or country people, but in the interests of the whole community- that this sector be sustained, but that it be sustained on a viable basis and that people in these industries are able to enjoy a reasonable standard of living. 
The legislation before us is a typical example of the ad hoc or short term approach which the Government has to a particular rural problem. I have been waiting to hear a logical, rational or economic argument as to why the Australian community should subsidise superphosphate. I have not heard it because there is no rational argument. There is only the emotive argument that 'We must keep people on the land'. There is really no good rational economic, social or welfare argument why we should subsidise the users of superphosphate any more than we should subsidise orchardists who use expensive chemicals or poultry farmers who have to purchase very expensive feed. Where is the argument? What is the difference? Why pick out a particular user of a particular product and say that product should be subsidised? There is no rational argument. We have not heard the argument because it docs not exist. 
There is no clear objective in continuing the subsidy. The subsidy does not fit into any overall philosophy of reconstruction or making particular industries viable. It is just a straight out ad hoc, short term, political decision to win votes at a particular time. That is how it came about; that is how it has been sustained. The subsidy is opposed by many people. It is opposed by practically all expert opinion. The Industries Assistance Commission came out and argued very strongly against it. But not all members of the Commission had the courage of their convictions and some of them have gone along with granting the subsidy on a temporary basis. But the whole tenor of their argument is against it. The Bureau of Agricultural Economics has argued against it. The Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation has argued against it very strongly. Most of our leading agricultural economists have argued against it. Indeed many small producers have argued against it simply because they do not benefit at all. The subsidy is very regressive. The people who need it least are the people who benefit most, and this has been stated on many occasions on this side of the House. 
The Government Green Paper which was produced last year- and most supporters of the Government acknowledge that it is an excellent document- argues very strongly against this sort of subsidy. The IAC report uses terms like: 'We give the farmers the benefit of the doubt to justify a temporary extension of this subsidy'. The Commission refers to the subsidy being makeshift and short term measure. The only dissenter who had the courage of his convictions was  Mr Robinson  who comes out quite strongly and states the fact that the subsidy does not assist the right people, the people who need the assistance, and that it is a very costly subsidy to the Australian public. The IAC says that there should be specific measures to deal with specific problems and these sorts of subsidies are not the answer and do not fill that need. 
The Green Paper draws attention to the conflict between the original aim, which seems to be to encourage the use of superphosphate, and the present aim, which seems to be to reduce the cost of production. What is the aim? It has not been stated. It is not stated in any of the Government 's policies. I suggest that the broad aim of all these measures should be to try to stabilise incomes based on needs and to try to cushion the cyclical effects of weather conditions which cause great variations in production or the cyclical effects of varying market values of the produce. But the subsidy is not related in any way to this objective. The bounty is not related to the ups and downs of primary producers' incomes. It is not related to markets. It is just related to the use and it is very regressive. 
Let us look at the overall criticism of the bounty. We have heard nothing to commend the bounty in terms of good sound argument. But there is a whole range of arguments which condemns this type of subsidy out of hand. The main criticism is that the subsidy is not related to needs. The biggest users, the people with the highest incomes, tend to get the greatest subsidy. The people who need it on the basis of income get the lowest subsidy. Many acknowledge that it adds very little real value to their incomes. The subsidy is not related to the different size of farms. It is the small farmer who gets the worst end of the stick. The subsidy is not related to the type of produce for which it is being used. The wheat farmer who is doing reasonably well gets just as much as the beef producer who is doing very badly. There is no relationship between what they are producing so where is the logic of it? There is no assessment of whether it is being used efficiently or inefficiently. 
There is no protection against over-use. I do not think anyone would deny that many people who are referred to as Pitt Street farmers, or Duntroon farmers which I think is the new category, over-use superphosphate not on technical grounds but just as a means of saving on taxation and burying assets. No one would deny that. This practice has been going on for many years. There is no consideration as to whether there is a market for the type of produce that is being encouraged by the superphosphate bounty. There is no consideration whether we want more beef or less wheat. The bounty is given across the board. It is therefore completely non-selective and completely ineffective as a means of stabilising income or cushioning the ups and downs of the market or seasonal ups and downs. The proper planning of rural reconstruction and stability in the rural sector is based on those good solid principles which are spelled out in the Green Paper. In my experience, and I have said this before, farmers do not want handouts. The average farmer is not the sort of person who walks around with his hand out. Farmers want to stand on their own feet, but they want their operations to be soundly based and viable over a long period. They do not want to be dependent from year to year on handouts. We should aim at long term reconstruction and not at ad hoc short term handouts. 
Let us consider what the experts in this field have to say.  Dr Bruce  Davidson, a lecturer in agricultural economics at Sydney University, at the end of last year said:  . . . difficult to justify on the basis of welfare or efficiency. Biggest users ... are farmers with largest areas of crops and pastures. They are high income earners (generally speaking) and are in least need of assistance. The bounty is non-selective and encourages production of products for which markets may not exist. 
That was said by one of our leading agricultural economists. He is not a politician. The  Primary Industry Newsletter,  which is the primary producers' mouthpiece, has stated: 
The question is: If extension workers, economists and other advisers can show the financial and agronomic benefits of applying super, and farmers refuse or defer the advantages of that advice, why should they receive taxpayer support? 
One of the industry's own journalists said that. In other words, he said that the decision to use or not use superphosphate should not be made on the basis of whether a subsidy is paid. The Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, in a paper entitled  Is top dressing worth the effort?  stated: 
Anybody about to stop topdressing should think very carefully about the effect this decision is likely to have on profits. He should not be swayed only by the latest rise in the price of fertiliser. If his stocking rate is high enough and his pasture responds to super, leaving it off could be an expensive mistake. A maintenance dose of 125 kg of superphosphate per ha costs about $9-$l I per ha. Depending on the enterprise this could return about $ 1 5 per ha- a profit of at least $4. 
The CSIRO is saying that people would not stop using superphosphate just because there is no subsidy. It is not a vital factor in whether they use superphosphate. In the right circumstances, even without the subsidy, it could still pay to topdress with superphosphate, but the decision would be made after consideration of many other factors and not on a consideration of whether a subsidy is paid. Its use would depend on technical considerations. The farmer would have to consider such other alternatives as whether at a certain price another form of fertiliser might be more beneficial. He might want to use lime, gypsum or something like that for a particular purpose. He might consider that cultivation to renovate the pasture would have more value in terms of cost benefit. Those are the things which an expert farmer would have to weigh. I have no doubt that the honourable member for Angas  (Mr 
Giles), who has had considerable experience in this area, would agree that a decision on whether to use superphosphate does not depend on whether there is a subsidy. There are other considerations such as the amount of stock carried, the quality of pasture and the content of it, the sort of species it has on it and whether it is able to be watered. Those are all factors which have to be considered. Last but not least, of course, is the question of whether the product that the farmer is trying to produce can be sold. 
The Opposition supports the Nitrogenous Fertilizers Subsidy Bill because it relates to a completely different set of circumstances. In no way can it be considered in the same light as the superphosphate subsidy. The Nitrogenous Fertilizers Subsidy Bill supports the Opposition's philosophy that it is not against subsidies in a doctrinaire way. The Opposition considers that the question of subsidies should be judged on the merits of each individual case, and I would suggest that in this individual case there are very good grounds to support the subsidy. It is not a matter of being inconsistent. The Opposition is being consistent in being flexible and keeping an open mind on subsidies. Certainly we do not have a doctrinaire view that no subsidy should be supported. Certainly we do not take the doctrinaire view, which is adopted by some Government members, that all subsidies should be supported. We believe that they should be looked at on their merits. 
Nitrogenous fertilisers are spread more evenly over the horticultural industries and there is not the great variation in extent of use that exists with superphosphate. Nitrogenous fertilisers are a very important element in the sugar industry, which is a stable industry, and they fit into it very well. Consideration also must be given to the need to sustain a local manufacturing industry for a particular product. If we did not have that industry we would become very dependent on overseas producers irrespective of whether we had nitrogenous fertilisers. I suggest that Australia is far too dependent on other nations in other areas, such as defence, and we should not become dependent on them for the supply of such scarce resources as nitrogenous fertilisers. 
The other important element in the support of nitrogenous fertilisers is that there is a built-in incentive to keep down the cost of production. If the cost can be kept below a certain level the subsidy applies; if not, imports are able to come in and balance the supply-demand factor. It is because of that different situation that the Opposition supports the nitrogenous fertilisers bounty. 
It is much more evenly spread. It supports industries that are stable and standing on their own feet, and there is an incentive to keep down the price, which the Opposition supports.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  it is interesting to note how many members on the Government side are interested in this debate. 
I think there is one Country Party member present. That is typical of the real interest the Country Party has in the problems of the farmers. It is interested in votes; it is not interested in the long term problems of the industry. The Country Party is consistent in its approach to all these problems. It is not prepared to grasp the nettle and restructure or reconstruct the industry or attempt a long term solution to the very real problems faced by rural industries. It is much more prepared to sustain people at a low level of income and leave them struggling along so that it can sustain the vision that we must not let anybody leave the rural industries or everybody will go to the cities and these industries will come to a standstill. People are infatuated with that idea and so they refuse to face up to the real long term problems. They refuse to accept the advice of our agricultural experts, of bodies such as the Industries Assistance Commission and CSIRO, and of agricultural economists, who are unanimous that there are no grounds whatsoever for the continuation of the superphosphate bounty. It is iniquitous, it is nonselective, it is unfair. It does not support the people who need support and it gives money to people who really do not need it. 
The sort of money that is being spent could be used much more profitably in a reconstruction program in areas where the need is established. The $30m which the bounty will cost would go a long way towards reconstructing one and for all a particular section of the industry and enable it to be put on a viable basis so that people could operate at a reasonable level of income. Most farmers do not look to be wealthy. Farming is a way of life and farmers should be able to expect reasonable standards of income in line with the rest of the community. This is what reconstruction should be all about. It is the organisation of an industry so that due regard is given to the needs of the producers and also the needs of the consumers. But one should not be favoured at the expense of the other. That is the objective of the Opposition's broad policy on rural matters. We want to see long-term reconstruction, not short-term ad hoc political decisions. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I wish to refer to a speech in the adjournment debate on Tuesday night made by the honourable member for Swan  (Mr Martyr).  My remarks would probably also apply to the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Sullivan).  He would probably be disappointed if I did not include him in my remarks because his speech was almost as reactionary as that of the honourable member for Swan. On Tuesday night the honourable member for Swan made a very scurrilous and completely unwarranted attack on many of our voluntary aid bodies in Australia. He also attacked our leading churches. He attacked all those people who have taken a humanitarian interest in the Timor tragedy, and in doing so he defended the fascist actions of the Indonesian Government in its aggression in Portuguese East Timor. I find it very sad that an elected member of this House, representing the independent democratic people of Australia, should deny that same independence, that some democratic right, to our neighbours in Portuguese East Timor, which is only 300 miles from Darwin. Because their skins are a different colour, or for some other reason, he wants to deny them that right. He wants to deny them their independence. Independence is all right for the honourable member for Swan but not for them. 
I found his remarks highly offensive and highly inaccurate. They were based on a complete misconception of the real tragedy of Timor. The honourable member displayed a frightening conservative bias and an irrational fear of something that he does not understand and does not even want to begin to understand. He referred to the Timor moratorium and he likened it to the Vietnam moratorium. I hope he is correct because with respect to Vietnam we saw a nonviolent moratorium which had the effect of ending a violent war that had gone on for 20 years. I hope that the Timor moratorium has the same effect, because that is the idea behind it. We want to end the bloodshed in Portuguese East Timor. It is not the fascist leaders who will end war, it is the ordinary people who get up and demonstrate that they do not want war. If we were in contact with the ordinary people in those countries these wars would not start. The honourable member for Swan never went to Timor. He based his judgments on the propaganda that poured out of Indonesia. He could have gone to Timor; other people went there. 
Some honourable members from this side of the House went to Timor to see for themselves what was going on because, quite obviously the people of Australia were being denied the real truth. Five Australian journalists were murdered by the Indonesian forces because the Indonesians did not want the truth to come out. There is no doubt about that. We went and saw it ourselves. We made an on the spot assessment. We did not sit back here and swallow the propaganda that has been dished out by Indonesia which honourable members opposite swallowed. It was not only honourable members on this side of the House who went to Timor; 2 members from the other side of the House went too. It might be a good idea if Government supporters discussed the Fretilin forces and the 
Timor situation with  Senator Neville  Bonner who also went there and came back full of admiration for the Fretilin forces. He did not come back saying that they were all communists. 
I can assure honourable members that the Fretilin organisation is a nationalist body which has the overwhelming support of the people; it is not a communist organisation. We went there on 2 occasions- not once- and we took particular care to try to establish connections with any communist party. We found no connection whatsoever. It is significant that, in all the months of fighting that has gone on there, the Fretilin forces have received no support from any outside body at all -communist or otherwise. The UDT forces- the right wing fascist forces- identified 15 people who had had some connection with some communist party as students back in Lisbon. When the UDT coup took place they murdered eleven of the fifteen. They murdered them because they considered them to have some connection with communism. I do not agree with the politics of the honourable member for Swan- I know he is a former Democratic Labor Party candidate- but that does not give me the right to liquidate him because I do not agree with him. But that is what the UDT forces did. They felt that because these people were supposed to be communists they had the right to kill them. They were not people, they were something else because they were communists. 
The honourable member repeats all the old bogies about the Fretilin forces being communist dominated. There is no foundation for that whatsoever. If he talks to his colleagues who went there they will confirm that. Even traditionally right wing people like Michael Darby came back and said: 'What utter nonsense. They are not communists; they are nationalist people who want their independence, and that is what it is all about.' In his speech the honourable member also claimed that the Indonesians did not intervene until 7 December. The Indonesians were in action there when we were there in August, and everybody knows it. They are the people who killed the Australian journalists. Everybody acknowledges now that the Indonesian forces were there. Our own Foreign Affairs Department will acknowledge that. They knew all about it but the Press were not allowed to tell us. They were not allowed in there. 
The honourable member for Swan said something about the Timor relief appeal. Let me tell you just what it is all about. Eight voluntary organisations launched a Timor relief appeal which was widely supported by the Australian public. They sent humanitarian aid in a ship which was checked by the Australian Government before it was loaded. It was checked during loading and before it sailed. All the goods were of a humanitarian nature. The organisations all worked in conjunction with the International Red Cross which was substantially backed by the Australian Government. These are the people whom the honourable member is labelling as communists or their fellow travellers. He slanders these people with his irrational paranoia about the communist hordes that are bearing down on us. What nonsense! He slanders the Australian Council for Overseas Aid and the Action for World Development Organisation just because they supported the Fretilin forces. In fact these people sent more aid to Indonesian Timor than they did to Portuguese East Timor. These people are not politicians; they are Christian people from all denominations who arc interested in fighting against injustice and in dispensing humanitarian aid. 
The Timorese people have been subject to colonial denomination for 400 or 500 years and, just at the stage where they had a chance of breaking out of this domination and standing on their own feet, we see their great neighbour come in and crush them underfoot. We see them kill 50 000 to 60 000 defenceless women and children just because they did not agree with their philosophy and they claimed that it was a threat to their security. How could 500 000 half-starved people be a threat to the security of Indonesia with its 120 million people? How could that be? That is utter nonsense, and the honourable member knows it is nonsense. These people after 400 or 500 years of colonial domination have very little to show. They have no health services and practically no education. They have a 50 per cent rate of infant mortality, no roads, no communications, very little rural development and no industry. That is what colonialism had done to those people for 400 or 500 years. Yet the honourable member comes here and wants to defend another sort of colonialism from the Indonesians. The honourable member denies them the right to run their own affairs and the right to independence. 
The provisional government which has been set up there by the Indonesians in no way represents the people of Portuguese East Timor. It represents the property holders, the plantation owners, the elitist group who have vested interests there. It represents people who have commercial ties with Indonesia or who have family ties with Indonesia. It has no interest in the Portuguese East Timor people. It is interested in protecting its capitalist interest in Portuguese 
East Timor. The Fretilin organisation was supported by 90 per cent of the population when we were there on both occasions. Yet these are the people whom the honourable member denies the right of independence, and he had the audacity to support a fascist aggression, with no justificanon whatsoever, against the poor defenceless half-starved people. 
Can the Treasurer explain how reducing Government expenditure on overseas aid programs can assist the fight against inflation in Australia when overseas aid in fact reduces domestic liquidity? 
I support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis).  I do so because it does not matter how one looks at this new scheme, whether one looks at it from the point of view of the contributor, or whether one looks at it from the point of view of the Public Service itself as a very vital element of government. Whichever way one looks at it it is a very poor substitute for the Labor Government's scheme which was put up last year and was so callously rejected in the Senate by this Government, then in opposition. That scheme has come to be known as the Crean scheme. The new scheme is a very poor substitute for that one. In the case of many individuals it is even a poor substitute for the existing scheme. It is a tragedy for many people because even though they are not happy with the new scheme they have been placed in a fairly intolerable position to the extent that they cannot afford to reject this scheme even though they are not a bit happy with it because many of the contributorsand honourable members on the other side of the House may not be aware of this- are paying extremely high contributions from their current salaries. Some of them are paying up to 40 per cent and the take home pay of some of them is such that they have great difficulty in maintaining current standards of living because of these very high contributions. The stick is being held over their heads. It is a matter of accept this new scheme or go on with this very unfair scheme under which people are paying extremely high contributions. As I said, some of them are paying as much as 40 per cent of their salary. 
Many members on the other side of the House may not be here long enough to have to worry about retirement schemes as far as their connection with this Parliament is concerned, but I would suggest to them they should try to place themselves in the position of contributors to the scheme and contributors to the new scheme which is being put up and look quite objectively at the situation in which they would be placed. Many contributors take the view that there has been a breach of contract by the Government. These people entered into an arrangement to make certain contributions under the old scheme and in return to receive certain benefits. They have fulfilled their part of the contract, but now the Government is wanting to change the rules. The Government is saying: 'That was good enough before but now we are going to change the rules to make them something quite different from what the contributor entered into'. This is admirable if the change means that contributors will be better off and the scheme will be more equitable, but this of course is not the case. Under the new scheme some people will be better off. Some people will definitely be worse off. There is no question about this when one looks at the actual provisions. 
The main difficulty, of course, with the new scheme is in the area of age 65 retirement because many people have planned to retire at 60 years. They have arranged their accommodation. They have arranged their finances. They have arranged their family concerns to retire at that age and to do what they chose to do. Some of them may want to travel. Some may want to write their memoirs. Some may just want to go fishing. Whatever they want to do, that is the way they have planned their lives. They planned to retire while they were still in reasonable health so they could enjoy reasonable retirement in economic security. That is what they set out to do. Now all their plans have been thrown up into the air because to get the benefits they had planned to get they have to go on and work for another 5 years, and Government supporters cannot deny that this is the case. Great strains are going to be placed on the health of these contributors because they will have to go back to work even though many of them are not in very good health. They have been able to carry on in the hope of retiring at 60 years of age, but now they will have to go on working for another 5 years. The prospect is not a very inviting one, I can assure honourable members, for people who had been planning to retire at 60 years of age to be told that they have to go on and work for another 5 years. 
The new scheme is shot through with a whole range of deficiencies and ambiguities, but the most outstanding deficiency, of course, is the one concerning the age of retirement. This is really turning the clock back. It is a complete reversal of the general trend throughout the world. The general trend, of course, is for early retirement and a general reduction in working hours. This has been accepted as a trade-off because of the advances that have been made in technology and computerisation. If people are going to benefit from these advances- and they should be advances in a civilised society- they should go towards improving the quality of life, the way people live and how they live. To achieve this the logical trend is towards shorter working hours and towards an earlier retirement so that people can enjoy their retirement in reasonably good health. 
A group that appears to be particularly disadvantaged in this respect consists of those people who have less than 20 years service and who did plan to retire at 60 years of age. It is quite a bitter sham to claim that these people are not disadvantaged. I would just like to quote a couple of case histories that have been brought to my notice to support what I am saying. The first one concerns a class 4 clerk with an anticipated final salary of $10,000 per annum. Under the existing scheme he wanted to retire at 60. He would have received 49.8 per cent as a government contribution plus 20 per cent from his own contribution, which would have given him almost 70 per cent of his salary- in fact, $6,980 per annum under the existing scheme. He claims that under the new scheme he will get 45 per cent plus 2'/i per cent bonus, which is 47&amp; per cent or $4,750 per annum. He is down $2,230 per annum under the new scheme when compared with the existing scheme. This is not an isolated case. I have had several of them brought to my notice. There is another, from a 45-year old Fourth Division officer who is not in a career position and who anticipates he will retire on his present salary of $11,581 per annum plus normal indexation. Under the existing scheme 70 per cent would have given him $8,106 per annum. Under the new scheme he gets 45 per cent plus 2.2 per cent, which gives him $5,714 per annum. He is down $2,392 per annum. Yet members opposite claim that people will not be disadvantaged by this scheme. Many people will be down about $2,000 per annum in respect of the pension on which they had planned to retire at age 60. To get what they planned to get, they must go on to 65. 
At the other end of the scale, by contrast, many Second Division officers are in quite a different position. Under the new scheme they will be advantaged at the expense of those who are disadvantaged. I quote the case of a Second Division officer with a final salary of $30,000 per annum. Under the present scheme he would have received 44.3 per cent or $13,290 as government contribution. Under the new scheme he will receive $ 15,000. In this category people in the higher echelons are better off. Most officers in this category will receive benefits as good as, and some will receive benefits better than, those they would have received under the existing scheme. My correspondent sums it up in this way: 
There is no way for me to retire at my planned age of 60 years and receive even 50 per cent of my final salary. 
I am forced to work an additional 5 years for this benefit but this does not apply to the top echelon. It is a grant to them at my expense. 
I would like to know what the Minister has to say about people in that category. 
To offset this argument the Government will say that people will be paying less in their contributions. This is fair enough. There is no question about that. People will be paying less, but a lot of people have been paying more for many years. Some of them have only two or three years to go before they retire. The Government will claim that contributors will get a lump sum return of their surplus contributions, plus interest, to offset loss in pension. There are 2 very important aspects which we must consider in relation to this argument. Firstly, these lump sums will not be indexed in any way to offset inflation- inflation which was initiated by the Snedden Budget in 1972. The other aspect is that the lump sum return under the Crean scheme could be used to purchase additional pension rights. Part of it could be used to purchase additional pension rights. Under the new arrangement it is the lot or nothing. A contributor must use the whole of the lump sum to purchase additional pension rights. He cannot say that he will take half as a lump sum payment and use half to purchase additional pension rights. This option has been removed. In that respect the new scheme is much less flexible than the Crean scheme. The return of the contribution without indexation represents a severe loss in the real value of the lump sum because of inflation. 
As the honourable member for Gellibrand said, the Commonwealth Public Service will now be the only Public Service in Australia in which the full pension will not be indexed. That is a great distinction for our public servants, compared with State public servants. There is no way to compensate for this loss, unless the contributor is tempted to speculate in real estate to achieve some capital gain. This is precisely what the Government is trying to discourage. If the man does that he is sacrificing income, he is running the risk of his speculation not coming off, he has liabilities in the form of rates and he is adding to the inflationary pressure by being forced to go into this sort of speculation. 
There are many other glaring deficiencies in this scheme. I will mention just a few. Another important example of inflexibility is the denial of the right to pick up units which have been rejected and which, under the Crean scheme, people would have been able to pick up 3 months before or 3 months after a new scheme was introduced and claim them as full pension rights. This is not an option under the new scheme. Many contributors have pointed out to me that it is a grave disadvantage. Other people have queried the fact that there is no indication of what will happen to the surplus in the old scheme. They have also queried the extent of that surplus. Nobody has told us that. I think the Government should be more forthright. The contributors have created this surplus. They are entitled to know how much it is. They are entitled to know what will happen to it. We are told that many of the unanswered questions and many of the queries that people bring up will be covered or answered by regulations. I would like to know from the Minister whether, in framing these regulations, representatives of the contributors will be consulted and whether the Government will have some consultation with the white collar union representatives to see whether those regulations fill the gaps about which people are complaining. 
Another area of concern, or an area of ambiguity to many people, is that there is no assurance that the lump sum return will buy the extra 20 per cent pension that was available under the old scheme after 20 years of service. Some people believe it Will take 30 years of service to get a sufficient lump sum to buy back the extra 20 per cent. This matter is certainly not clear in the Bill. It should be clarified in the interests of the contributors. 
One group in the Australian Capital Territory which I think will be disadvantaged is the Australian Capital Territory police. These people do not have the option of retiring at 60 or 65. They have a compulsory retiring age of 60. How are these people placed? On the surface it appears that there is no way they can get 50 per cent government contribution towards their pension. I would like this matter clarified by the Minister. I could outline many more deficiencies and ambiguities in the scheme, but it is quite obvious from what I have outlined already that many individuals will be disadvantaged. This cannot be denied. I have received many representations. I have many case histories. I know my colleague, the honourable member for Canberra  (Mr Haslem),  has received them also. They are there for anybody to see. People will be disadvantaged under the proposed scheme as compared with the existing scheme, and certainly disadvantaged greatly as compared with the scheme which was rejected last year. 
We should not be merely concerned at the fate of individual contributors- they are our main concern- we should be concerned at the general effect of this scheme and at the effect it will have on the Public Service as a vital part of government and as a vital process of government I do not think there is any doubt that the decision not to grant full pension until 65 must lead to an older, more conservative Public Service. I think in many ways it will be a less qualified Public Service. It will no doubt block effectively or slow down promotion opportunities for many highly qualified public servants, many of whom have set out to obtain qualifications to fit them for particular jobs in the Service. Now their employment opportunities are being blocked by this slowing down of the retirement process. I believe that the new scheme will establish a pool of very dissatisfied, highly paid public servants who had planned to retire at 60 but who are now being virtually forced back to work for another 5 years to get the 50 per cent of their final salary. I have no doubt this will have a significant effect on the quality of their work, on their morale and on the morale of those around them. I have no doubt that the scheme will lead to a more expensive and less efficient Public Service for the people of Australia. 
I must comment on the reference that the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Macphee)  made to the effect that the introduction of this scheme will have on the private sector. There is no rationale in his argument. The Commonwealth Public Service employs only about 6 per cent of the total work force in Australia. It is not rational to say that an improvement of their conditions will create hardship for the private sector in Australia. The fact that the conditions of this 6 per cent of the work force are improved does not mean that everybody will rush in and work for the Commonwealth Public Service. It will not increase the size of the Public Service by one person. All it will mean is that the competition for positions in the Public Service will be a bit keener and that the Public Service will be able to attract people of better quality. The argument that the Commonwealth Public Service will become the pacesetter and that the private sector be forced to compete with it has no real foundation. So let us not carry on in that vein and present a completely false picture. This scheme will apply to only 6 per cent of the total work force and it cannot affect the rest of the work force. 
I think that most members of this House agree that government today is a very complex business, a very difficult business, which requires the services of the most talented people. I think that the difficulties of the Government today highlight that statement. Government is a very difficult business and to carry it out requires the services of the most talented, the most highly qualified, the most professional people that we have in the community. We should not be apologising for having a highly competent, well qualified Public Service. The Labor Government did a lot to upgrade the Public Service, to improve its efficiency and to improve its professionalism. We do not apologise for that. I do not think that the Australian people would want us to apologise for it. There is no questioning the fact that under the Labor Government positive steps were taken in this direction. To maintain the standard we should have conditions which attract the best talent available and create favourable conditions for advancement. 
I believe that this scheme is a tragedy not only for the many public servants who have served the people well over a long period and who want to retire in good health at age of 60 years but also for the Public Service itself, because the clock is being turned back on the considerable progress that was made under the Labor Government to make the Public Service a highly competent and well motivated organisation serving the Australian people. I do not think that it is in the interests of the members of the Public Service or the Australian people to turn back the clock on the progress that already has been made. I certainly do not think that we or anybody else should apologise for wanting to have a highly efficient Public Service of the best standard that we can possibly get. We can do this only by creating the conditions that will attract people of the right quality and calibre to the jobs in the Public Service. 
I want to support very briefly the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  in supporting the Acts Citation Bill. I think it is a Bill that all members of the Parliament will welcome, as they should welcome any measure which would tend to simplify the method of citation of Commonwealth Acts and which would also tend to make the Acts more readily available to the quite large body of people who are interested in them. This is precisely what this Bill sets out to do. I think honourable members will also agree that the present system is undeniably clumsy; it is confusing, it is time-consuming and clearly it does not fit the needs of the community as they exist today. 
I shall just mention a few of the specific matters which will undoubtedly improve the situation. Certainly the elimination of the double year citation is an excellent innovation and will reduce confusion and no doubt reduce the possibilities of errors arising in legal judgments. The provision of footnoting, for instance, for every amending Act together with all previous amending Acts will, I am sure, prove to be a clearer and less misleading system of citation than the one which presently exists. It is particularly pleasing to note the statement of the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  that this new system of citation should reduce the pressure of work in the Attorney-General's Department, more particularly in the legislation and drafting and publications sections. It is hoped that the easing of pressure of work in these sections will particularly reduce the delays that are at present being experienced in the publication of a wide range of Commonwealth Acts. It is unfortunate that the present staff ceilings will obviously make this more difficult to accomplish. 
I should like to take advantage of this opportunity to comment briefly on this aspect of the Bill because in my electorate I frequently hear complaints from constituents and students who, for various reasons, are unable to secure copies of particular Acts. I have no doubt that this experience is common to many members of this House. At present there are undoubtedly considerable problems concerning access to published legislation. It could be recalled that in July last year the then Attorney-General,  Mr Enderby,  announced that a consolidated printing of Australian Capital Territory laws would be carried out last year. According to  Mr Enderby  it was considered necessary at the time because several bound volumes of yearly ordinances and regulations were just not procurable. I understand that this consolidation has not been completed. Here again this is due to lack of staff in the Attorney-General's Department. Such a consolidation is undoubtedly urgently needed in Australian Capital Territory legislation because at present access to Australian Capital Territory laws and indeed to all laws of the Commonwealth Parliament is generally quite cumbersome. It is often expensive and in some cases it is just impossible to obtain copies of the various laws. 
To obtain all the laws relevant to the Australian Capital Territory, for example, it is necessary for anyone interested to purchase at considerable expense the Acts of Parliament 1901-1973, plus the Acts of subsequent years, together with the laws of the Territory up to 1975, plus any laws of subsequent years. The promised consolidation of Australian Capital Territory Acts, together with the 12 volumes of the Acts of Parliament which are already consolidated will no doubt go some way towards catering for the demand for up to date legislation, but at the same time it will be by no means the final solution. The bound consolidation of Acts is admittedly useful to those who want to refer frequently to a wide range of Acts, but it is not much use to an individual who merely wishes to obtain a copy of one Act or of an amended Act. In fact in some cases it can be quite a tortuous process to obtain all the legislation available on one particular topic. As an example, if I want to obtain a copy of the Banking Act, I find that although it has been reprinted in pamphlet form the legislation has been amended several times since the days of the reprint and some of the amending Acts are out of print. In such circumstances the only way I can obtain the law on banking is by purchasing the entire 12-volume consolidation. In some cases even this is not available. 
The complete legislation on workers compensation in the Australian Capital Territory does not seem to be available. One cannot get all the legislation which makes up the workers compensation ordinance from the Australian Government Publishing Service but this legislation is frequently sought by individuals involved in compensation claims. It is often required by union representatives who act on their behalf. Even after the proposed consolidation is completed it still will not be possible to obtain the legislation separately. The only way the interested individual could sight such legislation would be through the reference service of the National Library or through an appropriate government department. 
Other Acts brought to my notice as being difficult to obtain or which are not available are those relating to compensation for Australian Government employees. Another piece of legislation which is frequently sought after and which people seem to have great difficulty in getting is the Associations Incorporation Ordinance of the Australian Capital Territory. There are many community organisations in Canberra which require guidance on this Ordinance and it is not available. The Weights and Measures Ordinance is one which students frequently find difficulty in getting, particularly the recent amendments. It is in great demand and copies are simply not available. 
It is not only the older legislation which is unprocurable. For example, when a new ordinance is made it is often quite a long time before copies are available from the Australian Government Publishing Service. I would like to endorse the view expressed by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith that it is extremely important that published copies of all legislation be readily and cheaply available in an up-to-date form not only to the legal profession, to the judiciary, to public servants and to students, but also to individual people who may have particular problems which require reference to legislation. In conclusion, I suggest to the AttorneyGeneral that having introduced this Acts Citation Bill he also give urgent consideration to the general problem of making Acts and Ordinances more readily available to all people seeking them. 
-I rise to support the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  in the support he has given to the Live-stock Slaughter Levy Amendment Bill 1976. Before dealing with the Bill, I would like to refer to the claim by the honourable member for Barker  (Mr Porter)  that there is a growing demand for our beef in Indonesia. He also referred to the pros perous oil industry in that country. Apparently e has not heard the latest information, namely that Pertamina, the government oil company, is in extreme difficulties, to the extent of a deficit of something like US$10 billion. I understand that that deficit is placing a great strain on the whole economy of the country. So, I hope that if we do develop our markets in Indonesia we get paid for the products we sell and the economy is much more stable in the areas in which we develop our markets than it is in the area of the allegedly thriving oil industry to which the honourable member referred. Ten billion dollars is a lot of money. I understand that it is about three times as much as any deficit that Indonesia ever had under Sukarno. 
I return to the Bill. The Opposition supports the Bill because it provides for a much more equitable manner of covering the costs of research in that the legislation applies to all stock that is killed and not just to export stock. Therefore, the amount of money collected is not dependent on the vagaries of prices on the export market and is spread more evenly over the industry. That is as it should be. After all, the health standards applying to our domestic beef market are just as important- they are even more important, in my view- as those applying to the export market. I do not know of any reason why we should accept lower standards of hygiene or health in relation to beef which is consumed locally than we should in relation to beef which is exported. 
I think this legislation is a commendable extension of the philosophy- it is a philosophy of the Labor Party- that rural industries, or any other industry for that matter, should contribute directly to the cost of their own research services. The beef industry has a pretty good record in that regard, in that already it contributes to the Australian Meat Board, it contributes to the Australian Meat Research Committee and it contributes to the meat processing research carried out by the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation. I do not think anybody would argue with the proposition that research in the beef industry is important. One cannot help but be impressed by the quite extensive inroads which have been made by artificial meat or substitutes for meat into the meat market in America and in Japan. If we are to protect our $2 billion industry in Australia it must be efficient. It must turn out a product which the people want and which is acceptable from both the health point of view and the nutrition point of view if we are to compete with, or to keep within due bounds the threat from, substitutes for fresh meat. So, although we refer to these levies as a charge against the industry, really they are not a charge; they are an investment in the future of the industry which the industry should be prepared to make. Generally it seems to be prepared to make that investment. 
I have said that industry should meet the cost of its own research services and that the beef industry is doing that to some extent. However, it should not be thought that it is doing so to the full extent. The beef industry still enjoys many government services to which it does not contribute directly. I refer to the service given by the district veterinary officers who are employed mostly by the State governments. They provide an excellent and high quality service, and there is no direct charge to the farmer for that service. The many government research stations scattered throughout Australia make a great contribution to the industry, particularly in relation to genetic or breeding research, not to mention the agricultural schools and colleges which provide the professional back-up for the industry. 
The Labor Party traditionally has had a progressive attitude towards the beef industry. The record shows that the Labor Government was responsible for setting up the Australian Bureau of Animal Health within the Department of Primary Industry. It also was a Labor decision to establish the animal health laboratories at Geelong. I believe that at the moment there is some concern that, with the impending release of the Bland Committee report, some of these institutions or proposed institutions may be the victims of a purge by that Committee. I hope that is not right, but there is some talk that it may be so. I understand that the Leader of the National 
Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  is so concerned about this matter that recently he cancelled a trip to attend a United Nations Conference in South Africa in case these things do come about. 
That is all I wish to contribute to the debate,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  The Opposition supports the Bill. I should just say that we would like to see the Government honour its election promise to implement all the recommendations of the Industries Assistance Commission relating to the beef industry, particularly recommendations concerning the long-term problems of the industry, and not just the rather minor and least costly recommendations which the Government is implementing in these Bills. 
I think it is now quite apparent to even the most objective observer that Australia's policy on Timor can only be described as one of duplicity and one which is immoral, unprincipled and deceitful in the extreme. 
I shall tell the honourable member why. What we have been doing is telling the Indonesians in one ear that we want them to get out and that that is the only solution. But in the other ear we have been telling them: 'It is OK; we have to say that publicly, but privately we understand your situation and we believe that your solution is the only viable one possible'. If there is any doubt about this I refer honourable members to the notorious Woolcott cable which was leaked on 17 January.  Mr Woolcott,  the Ambassador to Indonesia, said: 
It is a choice between what might be described as Wilsonian idealism and  Kissingerian  realism. 
The former is more proper and principled but the longerterm national interests may be served - 
Note that he does not say 'will be served '-  by the latter- we do not think Australia can have it both ways. 
It is quite obvious that he is saying that we should be telling the Australian public that they should go easy on Indonesia and that we should not do anything that might cause a deterioration in our relations.  Mr Woolcott  says: 
We believe the emphasis should now be on accepting the inevitability of Timor s incorporation into Indonesia, letting the dust settle and looking ahead, while taking what steps we can in Australia to curb the growth of further hostility  towards  Indonesia within the Australian community. 
That is straight-out duplicity. He is telling the Government that it should deliberately mislead the public of Australia as to what is really happening in East Timor. There should be no doubt m everybody's mind that that is the policy of the Government and that has been its policy since it became the Government. The Government is confronted by a choice between a moral stance based on condemnation of Indonesia for the invasion of East Timor and on the inalienable right of the people of East Timor to selfdetermination on the one hand and a pragmatic, realistic acceptance of the inevitabilities of the situation on the other. This has been the Government's policy as spelt out by  Mr Woolcott,  the Ambassador, and it has not been refuted by the Government of the day. That it is deceitful has been further borne out by considerable evidence which has come forward. It now indicates that the Government knew all along precisely what Indonesia intended to do. It knew the size of the forces that were going into East Timor. It knew that those forces were not volunteers. The Government was even able to identify some of the regiments. It was fully aware of the planning of the whole exercise. Equally it is now apparent that the Government had vital information concerning the death of the newsmen. This has been withheld from the public. There has been a deliberate attempt to withhold information from the public along the lines suggested by Ambassador Woolcott. 
That the Government's policy is inappropriate and inadequate was also very apparent- if not before, it certainly became most obvious when I visited the United Nations a short time ago. Practically every delegation I spoke to- and I spoke to about 20 of them- taxed me with the question: 'Why is Australia taking such a low key role in East Timor?' They said: 'We were looking to Australia for leadership. We were looking to Australia for some initiative to help the Timorese people, and it has let us down. Australia has failed miserably. There has been no leadership and no initiative whatsoever coming from Australia in the United Nations'. This was the story we heard not only from the non-aligned nations of Africa, but also from European nations including Italy and France. Instead of looking to Australia as the only Western country on the edge of the South East Asian area, they had to look to Japan. Of course Japan was the broker and the agent for Indonesia in the debate in the Security Council. Japan led the support for Indonesia. It fought very hard to have a soft resolution put through the Security Council. All the Western nations, with the exception of one, which is to its credit, supported Japan in that move. When an amendment to the resolution was moved to soften up the resolution the only Western nation that did not support it was Sweden, to its credit. Every other nation supported the motion to try to soften the resolution towards Indonesia. Australia did not have a vote of course, but it was quite apparent that it was in the same camp as the other Western nations. Everybody at the United Nations was aware of it. I was ashamed of the role Australia played. I do not say that in a personal sense. The mission was doing what it was told to do and it was doing it quite well. 
What of our great and powerful friend, America? It kept out of the matter altogether. When the final vote was taken telling Indonesia to withdraw its troops and reasserting the right of the Timorese to self-determination, America and Japan, the 2 nations which could have put some pressure on Indonesia and which have the economic leverage to put pressure on them, abstained from voting. They ran away from the issue altogether. These are the countries with whom we are associated in the United Nations not the non-aligned nations. What of Indonesia's role in this? Indonesia's role has been equally shameful, based on blatant lies, deceit and misrepresentation from the very beginning. The Indonesians have tried, with no evidence whatsoever, to smear the Fretilin Party as a communist party. Let it be known that there has been no support for Fretilin. 
I support the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating).  Before I commence my remarks on the legislation before us I want to remind the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  that the Opposition has not opposed the stabilisation schemes. It has supported such schemes, with some reservations of course, right from the start, the same as it supports the set of Bills now before us. 
The introduction of the apple and pear stabilisation scheme in 1971 coincided with the termination of devaluation assistance payments which had been made in support of the industry following a fall in demand in the traditional export markets. Like most of the others, it was introduced as an interim solution to assist in a short term problem. But the problem in this instance is one which continues to require considerable financial support and as with most other schemes the interim solution tends to become the permanent solution. This is the Opposition's main criticism of this type of Bill. 
The stabilisation policy in regard to the apple and pear industry has been used as a blunt instrument for achieving a wide variety of purposes. The basic problem facing the industry is an imbalance between current levels of production and available markets, including export, local fresh consumption and processing outlets. The weight of evidence which is available does not suggest that there will, over the long term, be any real improvement in this situation. On the contrary, it suggests that export sales to the traditional markets in particular will continue to decline. Other markets have not expanded greatly and it is possible that increased competition will emerge from New Zealand and South Africa. 
When introducing the scheme the Government estimated an outlay of some $10m over the 5 years in which the scheme was to run. In fact, the liability over the 5 years has been $ 14.3m. During its lifetime export apple growers in particular have experienced continued downward pressure on their incomes. This has resulted from increased costs of growing, packing chemicals and overseas freighting, from changes in exchange rates and from increased competition in traditional markets. The anticipated continuation of a decline in the export market led to further support in 1974 and 1975. Special assistance was provided by Federal and some State governments. For 1974 the support provided by both schemes amounted to $2.80 a box. The total support amounted to $7.3m in 1974 and $5m in 1 975. Tasmanian growers received 60 per cent of the assistance paid to the industry, while growers in Western Australian and Victoria received 20 per cent. In 1974 the assistance amounted to an average of $13,500 a farm in Tasmania. The interesting thing is that despite this the average net farm income, inclusive of this support, in the State was less than $6,000. That gives some measure of the serious plight of the industry. The Industries Assistance Commission's recent report on the fruit growing industry estimates that despite the scheme there is still evidence of considerable personal hardship in many areas of the industry. The report states: 
Among other things, the availability of direct government assistance and the apparent willingness of exporters to provide credit encouraged some growers to continue in the industry and increase their indebtedness even though they had no prospect of re-establishing themselves on a viable basis. 
Unfortunately, this is the continuing story. Despite the high level of government assistance, exports of apples to Europe and North America in the 1971-75 period declined by nearly 50 per cent. The main effect of the scheme has been to provide income support to apple growers and, to a smaller degree, to pear growers who faced a rapid decline in prices in the traditional markets. 
As the assistance is product based, it inevitably has favoured larger and wealthier growers. That is one of our basic objections to this sort of scheme. Therefore, as a welfare measure, the scheme has not been at all satisfactory. 
The malaise in the industry is due in some measure to the simultaneous operation of the tree-pull scheme, together with the large subsidies to encourage production. The push-pull system thus induced has favoured producers with larger volumes of exports, while many of the small volume growers have left the industry because of the tree-pull scheme. However, payments under that scheme have been relatively small compared with the production subsidies. The LAC report also states: 
The stabilisation scheme has operated as an export subsidy. This method of assistance appears to be contrary to Australia's commitments under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade and its continuation may bring about retaliatory action in importing countries and by export competitors. 
Therefore, the Bills are not a solution to the immense problems facing the apple and pear industry. They are yet another interim measure which inevitably will perpetuate the unstable sector of the fruit industry. Everybody is aware, I am sure, of the long term trend in rural industries which has led to a reduction in the number of people living and working on farms. It might be appropriate to remind the House of the enormity of these figures. For instance, in 1933, 28 per cent of the male work force was employed in the rural sector. That figure was cut by almost half by 1954, when it was 15 per cent. By 1971 it was only 8 per cent. This represents a restructuring of or a change in the work force of considerable magnitude. The fruit industry has been a part of this change. 
The Bureau of Agricultural Economics study of the Huon Valley showed that as a result of the downward trend in net farm incomes between 1966 and 1973 the total work force in the Huon Valley declined by one-third. The 1971 census showed that about 50 per cent of the Huon Valley work force was dependent upon the production and marketing of apples and pears. A survey in Western Australia showed that between 1969 and 1974 the number of growers in the industry fell from 1333 to 567. The largest decrease was in the Great Southern Region where there were 20 growers in 1974, compared with 156 in 1 969. That represented a reduction in the number of growers of 87 per cent. The Western Australian apple and pear survey conducted by the IAC in 1975 showed that 32 per cent of growers interviewed in 1974 intended to leave the industry. The number of holdings above 0.4 hectares declined by as much as SO per cent between 1968 and 1974. 
The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair),  in his second reading speech, conceded the need for a long term solution to the problems of the industry. He referred to the Bills as providing interim support for a period during which longer term and more comprehensive proposals for the industry can be considered. We would like the Minister to be more precise about these comprehensive proposals. How long does he regard the longer term as being? We are not very encouraged by the lack of action during the 23 years of previous Liberal-Country Party government. Although we support these Bills, we believe that it is the long term problem on which the Government should be concentrating. We must question the morality of sustaining people in the industry in a situation which clearly is not viable and which has no real prospect of becoming viable. I think it is without question that subsidies often encourage people to stay on the land when they and their families - 
This is welfare in another form, is it not? 
I was not saying that at all. I am saying that subsidies encourage people to stay on the land when they and their families would be much better off making the break and setting up in another field of endeavour which would give them a more acceptable standard of living. People frequently make great sacrifices to stay on the land. If it is just a matter of an individual making a choice for himself, it is not so questionable; but, when young families, wives and mothers are concerned, they are deprived of normally accepted amenities which other people often enjoy. I think a great injustice is done to young people if their education is cut short or downgraded by people staying on the farm. I frequently speak to people in the Australian Capital Territory who, for various reasons, have given up farm life and have come to live or work in the Australian Capital Territory. I must say that generally these people have no regrets about making the change and about the decision to adopt a new way of life. Quite frequently their only regret is that they did not make the decision much sooner and that they delayed the decision for far too long, to the detriment of the welfare of their families. I strongly suggest to the Minister that the Government get on with the long term restructuring of the fruit industry. 
I wish to inform the House of one of the most disgusting and sickening examples of public irresponsibility and dereliction of duty by a member of the medical profession in the long history of the conflict that has been going on in Canberra between private and salaried medical officers in Canberra hospitals. Late on Monday night an unfortunate young man named Michael Frodyma was involved in a serious motor accident in Canberra. I understand that during a one and a half hour rescue operation  Mr Frodyma  was attended by salaried medical staff from the Woden Valley Hospital. He was then taken to the hospital to be prepared for an emergency operation, which later required the amputation of both lower legs. He was being prepared for the operation by a salaried anaesthetist,  Dr Heather  Lopert. I have been reliably informed that a private orthopaedic surgeon,  Dr McGonigal,  was called in to perform the surgery. I have been further informed that  Dr McGonigal  refused to work with the salaried officer to perform the operation of amputation. I believe that the operation was delayed until a private anaesthetist,  Dr Allam,  was brought in to administer the anaesthetic for  Dr McGonigal.  According to the latest Press reports,  Mr Frodyma  's battle for recovery is just beginning. He is still in a serious condition and he has a long hard road ahead of him to recover. 
This sorry, sordid and incredible episode clearly demonstrates that the serious conflict between salaried and private practitioners in Canberra hospitals has reached a stage which is quite intolerable to the public of Canberra, and it should be intolerable to the Government. It is a further link in a continuing series of episodes involving deliberate attempts by private practitioners to sabotage the salaried officers services in Canberra hospitals. In their unprincipled attempts to undermine the Government scheme, some private practitioners have shown a cruel disregard for the public interest which should not be tolerated in an enlightened society. It also should be made clear that if the present Government had taken a more responsible attitude towards the salaried specialist scheme the Woden Hospital would have been able to appoint its own salaried orthopaedic surgeon, this unfortunate incident would not have arisen, and private practitioners would not be placed in the situation of being able to hold members of the public to ransom, no matter how serious their injuries, in the fight to maintain their own privileged position in society. I hope that the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  will conduct an immediate and urgent inquiry into this episode and take appropriate action against such discreditable conduct. 
-Is the Minister for the Capital Territory aware of considerable delays in the Australian Capital Territory in the registration of motor vehicles and is he aware that his Department is considering lowering the standards of inspection to the extent that motorcycles, some caravans and some industrial vehicles may be registered without any inspection at all in the interests of achieving staff ceilings? Would the Minister agree that this situation represents a less efficient inspection service, a service which is now regarded as one of the best in the world, and that this example, as well as many others in his Department, makes nonsense of the Prime Minister's recent statement that staff ceilings have been achieved within the Public Service without any loss of efficiency? 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
In view of the Government's reduction in aid to developing nations, will he assure the House that Australia has not now rescinded commitments made at the Rome World Food Conference. 
Is he able to (a) guarantee that the Government has the capacity to respond speedily and generously to natural disasters such as the Guatemalan earthquake, (b) assure the House that the development assistance administered by the Bureau of Overseas Aid will be free from political considerations of foreign policy and (c) give an assurance that there will be a substantial increase in the proportion of Gross National Product devoted to overseas development aid in the 1976-77 Budget. 
Will the Minister for the Capital Territory indicate whether he is considering the imposition of a nominated corporation on the people of the Australian Capital Territory to administer the City of Canberra? Is he about to relegate the so-called Legislative Assembly, which has been elected by the people of Canberra, to the role of an advisory body to the nominated corporation, which will then be free to inflict harsh and irresponsible decisions on the people of Canberra in the same way as the Government did in last week's mini-Budget? 
I shall concentrate on the effect of the mini-Budget on the Australian Capital Territory because it is obvious that the Government is making a vicious and vindictive attack on the citizens of Canberra and has deliberately set out to cut Canberra back to size. The people of this city are being used as guinea pigs for the Government to demonstrate its conservative and reactionary economic management policies which can be used to political advantage outside the national capital. The people of Canberra are particularly unfortunate in that not only do they have a Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  who is a reactionary, who believed in the survival of the fittest and that life is meant to be harsh and mean, but they also have a Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Staley)  who is one of the Prime Minister's closest henchmen, who can be totally relied upon not to deviate one inch from his master's philosophy nor to make any concessions to the people of Canberra. He is the Prime Minister's most valued numbers man and naturally he wants to retain that position. So the people of the Australian Capital Territory can rely on him not to fight for their interests. 
-The Minister for the Capital Territory. What the Government is saying about Canberra is that if people in other cities must live in squalid, overcrowded conditions with poor environmental surroundings, inadequate transport facilities, bad roads and lack of sewerage then the people of Canberra should not expect to enjoy the conditions of a well planned city without being heavily taxed for it. The Government is saying that if people pay heavy charges and receive little in return in the relatively unplanned cities and towns of Australia then Canberra people should pay a bonus over and above the cost for the reasonable standards which prevail in Canberra. In adopting this attitude the 
Government is denying the economic advantages of good planning and saying that, irrespective of the costs of providing these conditions which people in Canberra enjoy, they should be paying higher charges for them. 
Probably the most devastating effect of the mini-Budget proposals in that rentals on government welfare housing will be increased to the level of rental charges in the private sector. Some 24 500 families, or half the number of Canberra households, will probably be adversely affected by this measure together with the decision to increase interest charges to 9  'A  per cent. This means that people who have secure government housing on a means tested basis and who are already paying in the vicinity of $35 a week for a 3-bedroom or 4-bedroom government house now face the prospect of having that rent increased to $55 or $60 a week. This would probably give Canberra the highest rent, both in the private sector and in the government sector, in Australia. In New South Wales the average figure for a 3-bedroom or 4-bedroom government house is between $25 and $35 a week, and the private sector rental on a similar sized house in Sydney would average $45 to $60 a week. Clearly this is an impossible imposition to place on low income families. This action cannot be supported on the basis of bringing Canberra into line with government rentals in other cities because there has been no indication from the Minister for the Capital Territory or any other Minister that all government rentals throughout the rest of the country will be increased in line with the private sector. I challenge the Minister to deny that this imposition has been reserved exclusively for the people of Canberra. 
This policy completely ignores the fact that the private sector rents in Canberra are already extremely high, that rent controls are on the way out and that the Labor Government's efforts to keep rents down are now being completely sacrificed to the whim of private property owners and speculators in Canberra. The imposition of market value rentals is particularly vicious because it is also being accompanied by higher municipal rates and increased bus fares as well as a threat to increase other revenue producing areas of government service. Despite a demand for more and better bus services in Canberra, the Department of the Capital Territory has approximately 40 to 45 buses in mothballs because of staff ceilings. This belies the Prime Minister's statement that staff ceilings have been achieved without causing inefficiencies in the Public Service. Everybody knows that that is nonsense. In order to meet the depreciation costs of these unused buses higher bus fares are now being proposed on the already inadequate services prevailing in Canberra. Some of my constituents have informed me that the Minister's proposed school bus fees would cost them as much as $6 a week. 
I understand that other revenue producing areas being considered include the imposition of a charge for occasional child minding centres, the strong possibility of a charge on library services, which in most areas of Australia have traditionally been free, and substantial increases in charges for the use of hitherto free public sporting and recreation facilities. I understand also that a substantial increase in building fees is under consideration. Increases in interest rates mean an increase in the monthly instalment of $25 to $30 for many young couples who have not been given the opportunity to plan for this unexpected imposition. 
In the building and construction industry the cutback of $43m in the forward estimates of the National Capital Development Commission is an extremely heavy blow, In many cases the blow has been fatal. Last week the firm of Collis Bros which has been operating in Canberra for many years, mostly in land development work, had to cease operations and put off all its staff, many of whom are skilled operators. Other firms such as Thiess Bros, which have traditionally been substantial employers of labour, are making drastic cuts in their staff. Yesterday I had representations from an engineer who had been employed in land development in Canberra for 17 years, who is now being retrenched and who is not able to find suitable alternative employment. In addition, many engineering consultancy firms, architectural firms and those in associated professions have been forced to reduce their staffs drastically and in some cases to close their firms down altogether. I do not know what these people are going to do because the Government has not left them any alternative. The situation is no better in State capital cities, so where can they go? 
In addition, the Minister's proposal to close down part of Reid House is depriving these unemployed people of the only accommodation which they could afford. Many people who are using the empty blocks of Reid House have been forced into this situation by unemployment inflicted on them by the Government and now the Government is threatening to use the police to remove these people if they do not vacate the building within 2 weeks. I think the Government has an obligation to provide alternative low cost accommodation before forcing people into the streets without any protection whatsoever. The plight of these people is all the more difficult because the action is being taken in the very depth of the Canberra winter. 
The building industry claims that in Canberra the output in housing this year will drop by 50 per cent from 4000 units to 2000 units. The Minister's assertion that reduction in Government spending in Canberra will be countered by increased activity in the private sector simply cannot be sustained. What are the projects which the Minister claims will be undertaken by the private sector? When the whole confidence of the building industry in Canberra has been undermined by Government cuts, when the money available for Commissioner for Housing loans is being more than halved on last year's figure, how can middle and low wage earners afford to build a house? What retailers are going to expand their operations in the climate that has been created in Canberra by this Government. 
The Minister mentioned the Belconnen shopping mall. This project has been underway for 6 months and in fact all this Government has done has been through its supporters in the Legislative Assembly who do their best to delay its progress. There is no doubt that the building industry in Canberra and the private sector generally are very dependent on government spending and whilst some slowdown in the rate of growth in Canberra can be justified in the present climate to cut Government spending on the basis that growth is going to stop altogether is quite unrealistic. The Government also completely disregards the self-generating growth capacity of a city of 200 000 people. Government spending should provide for this normal element of growth and the Government should not embark on a deliberate program of retardation. There are still many thousands of people in Canberra waiting for adequate housing and there is no justification whatever for cutting back on the welfare housing program or on funds available for Commissioner for Housing loans. The demand for houses is there. The materials and the workmen are there to build them if the Government would provide the money. 
The Minister's statements imply that because of the ceiling on the growth of the Public Service there will be no growth in Canberra. The Minister should be aware that only about one-third of the work force in Canberra is represented by people employed under the Public Service Act, together with about 7000 employed by the Government outside the Act, such as teachers, hospital staff, National Capital Development 
Commission employees, Government corporation employees, employees of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation and other statutory authorities. Government employees make up a total of little more than 40 per cent of the work force. The building and construction industry employs about 30 per cent of the work force, so that Government measures in restricting Public Service growth and in restricting NCDC forward planning is directly affecting 70 per cent of the work force in Canberra. We must ask the Minister: Is this the way he is going to instil confidence into the private sector in the ACT? Does he really expect private industry to expand its operations in this stifled environment he is deliberately creating? Does he really expect that the retailers, the motor car retailers, the furniture retailers or any other retailers or property developers would want to embark on costly expansion programs in this situation? 
We sometimes hear uninformed people charging that Canberra does not pay its way and the past record of the coalition Government in exploiting this sentiment is very clear. The fact is that Canberra residents pay more per head in tax than Australian citizens in any State. It is also true that if the Australian Capital Territory were to receive the same per capita grants as the smaller States do such as Tasmania, South Australia or even Western Australia we would be substantially better off in our finances than we are today and we would be more than paying our own way. Canberra people have always paid their way in the same way as other Australian citizens do. The sector in Canberra which does not pay its way in the real sense is the Government itself which pays no rates for all the valuable prime sites which it occupies in the Australian Capital Territory. The Government has never paid rates but it enjoys the general amenities provided largely by the ratepayers of Canberra. 
The Government's mini-Budget now creates the rather sad situation in which the only place in Australia where we did have a vision splendid of what it was possible to do to create desirable living conditions is about to have those conditions eroded by the very severe cuts in Government spending in the Territory. The Labor Government used Canberra to demonstrate the advantages of physical and social planning in providing modern urban conditions in a healthy rural environment, in providing adequate housing, transport and recreation facilities as well as health and education services. The Labor Party did not want this to be restricted to Canberra. 
We wanted to extend the same sort of conditions to other parts of Australia and we were well on the way to doing this with the growth centres of Bathurst-Orange and Albury-Wodonga. We wanted to provide conditions which any government should want to provide for its citizens. The Fraser Government is obsessed with the idea that it must create a large pool of unemployed to solve our economic problems and in the process it is quite prepared to sacrifice the standards of Canberra, to cut back the quality of its standards and reduce it to the same standards of mediocrity which were developed by the previous Liberal Government and which were tolerated for 23 years of conservative government in Australia. 

It is always rather sad that members of the Country Party are never generous enough to acknowledge that the Labor Party has ever done anything good for the rural community. Of course, the facts belie what the members of the Country Party say. The facts show quite the opposite situation. If one looks at the history of the stabilisation of all rural industries, one will see that it has always been the Labor Party which has consistently laid down long term policies on which to stabilise industry, to remove the instability that is inherent in all rural industries. All the stabilisation schemes in the 1950s and 1960s were based on the rural reconstruction report which was ordered by the 
Labor Government in 1944, before the end of World War II. This report was prepared for the Government. It was a very valuable document, based on sound principles, and they are the principles which all governments have followed for many years. It was not until Labor came into office again in 1972 that another review of the whole rural scene was ordered, and we had the Green Paper on rural policy of 1974. Again, consistent permanent long term policies were laid down, and they are the ones which this Government is now following and from which it is getting some guidance. But our opponents will never concede that we have done this. They will never concede that they have consistently pursued short term ad hoc policies and have never come to grips with the long term solutions to the problems of instability in rural industries. 
I want to speak briefly in support of the Wool Industry Amendment Bill. It covers 3 main areas: Firstly, the extension of the floor price scheme, secondly, accountancy procedures; and thirdly, and possibly most importantly, the aspect providing for more consultation within the industry. I want to speak mainly on the last aspect, but I should like to refer briefly to the extension of the floor price scheme, and particularly to that part of it which involves the 5 per cent levy on sales. This is an integral part of the scheme, a part which I understand is fully supported by all sectors of the industry. It certainly had the support and agreement of the Australian Wool Industry Conference. I understand that this levy is to be used to meet any losses which might result from the operation of the floor price scheme. It could also be used to serve as one of the sources of advances to growers where the sale of their wool has been affected by the . corporation's supply management operations or to purchase wool for other purposes to benefit the industry. I believe that the revenue from this levy is channelled to a special fund known as the market support fund which will enable growers' levy contributions to be separately identified and accounted for. 
I was very surprised to learn recently that in recent times there had been quite a strong lobby from Country Party interests to do away with or reduce the levy. It is rather disappointing that these agrarian socialists of the Country Party who like to enjoy the advantages of the floor price scheme have been pressing the Government to move away from its responsibilities to make a contribution which is aimed at stabilising the sale of their product. 
In many ways this is typical of their irresponsible attitude towards stabilisation schemes. They are agrarian socialists. There is no doubt about it. Agrarian socialism is a special brand of socialism that suits the Country Party. 
-They want the benefits but are not prepared to accept the levy to sustain them. That is the explanation of the term agrarian socialism. That is their particular brand of agrarian socialism. They want the benefits but do not want to pay the levies. The Wool Industry Amendment Bill had a requirement that the Wool Corporation consult with the trade unions concerend before taking any action that was likely to affect the conditions of employment or the demand for labour in the wool industry. This proposed amendment now includes a requirement to consult with employer organisations in addition to trade unions. This is a fair enough proposition. It is commendable and we support it but it should be noted that in practice this section of the Act really has Utile relevance to conditions of employment and the demand for labour in the industry. I think it is a bit of window dressing but it does not do any harm so we support it. It has very little real meaning in terms of labour conditions. 
I think it is generally accepted that conditions of employment are matters for the unions, the employers and the conciliation and arbitration procedures that have been set up to deal with them. The demand for labour is primarily a function of market conditions. We might use as a good illustration of the corporation's role the procedures which were followed in the recent industrial dispute in the wool industry. In February the Storeman and Packers' Union placed a ban on handling what it regarded as excessively heavy wool bales. The Wool Corporation itself was not involved as it was not a party to the dispute and the matter was outside its sphere of operations. The dispute was resolved by normal arbitration procedures. However, at the request of the Storeman and Packers Union the corporation tendered information on changes in handling procedures in brokers' stores. This was entirely a voluntary act on the part of the corporation and was in no way subject to section 20A of the Act. Section 20A can be interpreted by the corporation to mean a process of consultation with relevant unions, wool brokers and buyers on the activities of the corporation. 
The central feature of the consultation process concerns the program of auctions conducted by the corporation, the types and quantities of wool being sold and the location of the sales. This is relevant to the handling of the wool for the buyers and to the unions concerned. When the corporation buys wool it contracts the handling out to various brokers and thus it is not directly involved in the employment situation. The function is primarily one of informing the interested parties of the activities of the corporation to facilitate their planning. Apart from this process of regular consultation there are from time to time ad hoc meetings between the joint wool selling organisation, which is a part of the corporation, and the unions, the buyers and the brokers. An example in this area which can be cited was the discussion of research projects on wool handling and the most efficient way of clearing wool. The actual employment conditions in the wool industry are not a matter of direct concern to the corporation as it is not immediately involved. Section 20A translates itself in practice into one whereby the corporation keeps unions and employers informed of its plans and activities. 
We support this amendment because it is a further illustration that the wool industry does not see itself as comprising merely producers of wool. It is to be commended that the Corporation takes a much broader view. The producers, of course, comprise a very important part of the industry, but in terms of numbers they are in fact only a minority of the people involved. This Bill is further acknowledgment of the fact that all sectors of the industry, including those involved in the handling, the marketing and the manufacturing of wool, are given some consideration in the legislation covering the whole of the industry. 
Contrary to what the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher)  said, the wool industry went through an extremely difficult period in the late 1960s and early 1970s when the present Government was in power. In the seasons 1972-73 and 1973-74 the industry conditions were quite good. The average auction price in the late 1960s and early 1970s was in the 60c to 90c per kilogram range. It was 75c per kilogram in 197 1-72 and in 1972-73, the first year of the Labor Government, the price went up to 183.8c per kilogram. The gross value more than doubled. The following year, 1 973-74, the price was 1 8 1 .2c per kilogram. Those prices are on a completely different plane from what they were under the Liberal Government. We do not attribute the increased prices particularly to our Government, but it is a bit rough when the producers have two good years and then come round and try to tell us it was a debacle. It is nonsense. The figures do not sustain that. The producers had very good years in the time of the Labor Government. The year 1974-75 was a difficult year but levels certainly did not fall back to the levels which prevailed when the coalition parties were last in government. Of course the industry was able to get through that year because of the operations of the floor price scheme which had been introduced by the Labor Government. 
The prospects for the current season are reasonably good. There are signs of improvements in the demand for wool in the manufacturing countries. Certainly stocks are fairly high in the wool producing countries but the forward prospects are for improvement rather than decline. I am sure that with the continuation of the operations of the Wool Corporation the industry will continue through a period of relative stability and that there will be a continuing need for the Corporation to adapt its methods of operation in view of the difficulties the industry experiences from year to year. It is very encouraging to see that the Corporation is prepared to adopt a flexible attitude, adapt and refine its operations and to amend its rules to deal with these new problems as they arise. 
I am sure that the type of amendment we see in this Bill and any other similar amendments which tend to improve the efficiency of the operation of the Corporation will receive the support of all members of this House. I also express the hope that the Government will not submit to any future pressures from the National Country Party to abolish or reduce the special levy which this Bill seeks to continue. Instability is a built-in feature inherent in all the rural industries. The Opposition has always in the past supported and can be relied on in the future to support any well founded stabilisation schemes to overcome that inherent instability. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Defence. In order to allay doubts and fears of Service personnel generally and particularly of the staff and students of the Royal Military College, Duntroon, will the Minister give the House some indication of the Government's intention regarding the establishment of the proposed triservice academy? Will it be established in the Australian Capital Territory and when is it planned to commence? 
I wish to support the Bills, but I must say that I believe it is the height of hypocrisy for this Government to endeavour to criticise the Labor Government for its achievements in a period of 3 years despite great obstructions from the then Opposition particularly in view of the monumental propensity of conservative governments over a period of 23 years to bury their heads in the sand about the problems of the rural industries generally and particularly the dairying industry. 
These 3 Bills really represent a repeat of the well established process of waiting for the bull to get out of the yard before you start to repair the fence. In this case the bull has been running riot amongst the cows for about 10 years, and the dairy industry now finds itself faced with a massive over-production in relation to available markets and almost a total collapse of the industry. When this happens we merely dip into the public purse, not to rehabilitate, diversify, restructure or amalgamate dairy farms but merely to sustain them in an unviable state. We always say this is only temporary of course, and it is always temporary until we work out what we should do in the longer term. We read in the second reading speech of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  terms like 'short term adjustment measures' which are to be put into operation whilst the Government develops 'longer term integrated measures'. Terms such as 'relocation', 'diversification', 'farm amalgamation' and 'potentially viable' all become familiar cliches in the bureaucratic language in which we cloak the reality of a continuation of conservative policies to sustain and prop up rural enterprises which are not viable and have not been viable for many years. 
It is not that these terms in themselves are inappropriate. It is just that they never come to fruition to any significant extent. The Australian public might well ask: 'How long is the Government going to continue to use public moneys to maintain people in unviable situations?' Living at poverty levels of existence imposes permanent disabilities on dairy farmers' wives and families who are often called upon to work on the farm to survive, and this is often done at the expense of adequate education opportunities for their children. Just how long are we going to continue to apply the Band-aid philosophy of propping up these industries? Are we going to wait for yet another report when we already have the 1960 report of the conservative government which has not been acted on, and more recently we had the Industries Assistance Commission reports on reconstruction in rural industries. Are we to continue to wait on more and more reports and less and less action? 
Our record was not too bad when we were in office, even in respect of the rural sector. We did commission IAC reports. We did put the wool industry on a sound footing with a floor price scheme. We did bring out the Green Paper on rural industries in Australia and we did point out the basic principles on which they should be developed and sustained. So honourable members opposite should not try to tell me that we did nothing for the rural industries. We did a tremendous lot in 3 years and it was more than you people opposite did in a period of 23 years in office. There is no question about that. 
The writing has been on the wall for the dairy industry for many years. Even from the very beginning of the European Common Market the Labor Party recognised this as soon as it came to office and we commissioned IAC reports for this very reason. Yet this Government is now saying that it has to have another report. It is, of course, just stonewalling rather than taking definite action to come to grips with the real problems of the industry. It is interesting to observe that the apple and pear industry faced similar sorts of problems as the dairy industry in relation to the effects of the establishment of the Common Market, but it is pleasing to note that, in sharp contrast to the diary industry, the apple and pear industry has recognised the problems of that industry and it has put up practical suggestions to overcome them. That industry has, without any equivocation, recognised that there has to be a tremendous reduction in the capacity of the industry to produce and it has put up definite plans and procedures setting out how this should be achieved. The dairy industry has just refused to face the reality of the Common Market. It has consistently failed to agree on how the problem should be solved, despite the encouragement of the Labor Government to come to grips with the problem. This situation has gone on and on until now it has reached a crisis point in which the whole industry is in danger of complete collapse. 
Under the terms of the Dairy Adjustment Amendment Bill 1976 a further $3'/im is to be made available for the dairy adjustment programs. I understand that of this amount $2m is specifically earmarked for short term adjustment measures, but how significant is $2m in terms of the many thousands of farmers who are in difficulties? Applying a maximum rate of $4,000 per applicant, this amount would help only 500 farmers, although in the  Australian  newspaper recently it was suggested that an estimated 1 5 000 farmers would possibly be seeking unemployment benefits under the new terms laid down by the Government. I agree that the liberalisation of the rules to enable farmers to receive the unemployment benefit as well as the establishment of the modest floor price for skim milk powder are commendable measures in that they give limited relief to farmers without imposing additional direct burdens on the consumers by raising the price of liquid milk and other manufactured dairy products on the Australian market. If the provision of assistance to dairy farmers becomes a matter of choice between welfare measures such as unemployment benefits and a floor price for skim milk powder or the alternative, that is, imposing heavy taxes or levies on the viable parts of the industry such as the whole milk sector, then I would hope that the Minister would continue to favour the welfare measures rather than rob Peter to pay Paul. But the dole is not the real answer; it is degrading to dairy farmers and it is not the solution of their choice. 
I know some misgiving has been expressed in the Press to the effect that the Government may be moving away from this approach and may be considering imposing levies on milk which would go towards propping up the uneconomic sector of the industry. I hope that the Minister will see fit to guarantee that this will not happen and that the levy provided for in one of these Bills will not be used to subsidise unviable production but will be used strictly for the purposes set out in the Bill, that is, for the purpose of research and sales promotion only. 
It is fairly well known that politics within the dairy industry as well as conflicts and competition between the States have effectively blocked the introduction of rational policies such as the introduction of a negotiable market share quota scheme. Some States of course have made genuine efforts to reduce production in the unviable areas of the industry but others seem to have ignored the economic realities and common sense by squandering public money. I would particularly mention the very ill-advised Heytesbury development in Victoria- it was pleasing to hear the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  also criticise this project- and the extension of irrigated dairy farms in northern Victoria where it was quite obvious that the prospects for the product which was going to be produced were very poor. I would have hoped, too, that the Minister, when he referred to longer term integrated measures, would have made some attempt to spell out the direction in which he was heading the industry or what the prospects were in relation to the terms that he used, such as 'relocation'. Where are sections of the industry going to relocate? Where are employment opportunities available if farmers want to get out of dairying and go into employment in secondary industry or some other form of employment? There may have been employment opportunities under the Labor Government but clearly there are not under this Government. 
The Minister uses the term 'diversification'. What are the other activities that he has in mind that dairy farmers may be able to turn to? Surely at this stage they would not be turning to beef production. Just what are the options, if any? If there are not any options we should not be talking about these things and using empty phrases. What does the Minister have in mind when he talks about amalgamation of farms? What is the point of amalgamating farms if it means only increased production? What is his judgment as to what is a potentially viable farm? What improvements can we expect in the market prospects of the dairy industry that could lead him to consider that any dairy farm which is not viable now could become viable in the present market situation? These are questions on which the Minister should expand and on which he should give us some indication of the direction in which he is going and what he is thinking. 
It is now quite apparent that, because of the lethargy of the Liberal-Country Party coalition during the whole of the 1960s and indeed up to 1972, the industry in fact wasted 12 years from the receipt of the 1960 report until the Labor Government made the effort to act on that report in 1972. Twelve years was lost to the industry, in which it could have been working on long term schemes to restructure the industry, to reduce production in line with the potential markets and to see that we did not get into the situation that we are in today. We are dependent, on export, to the extent of about 57 per cent of the total production of our dairy industry, which in the early 1960s was mainly to Great Britain before it joined the European Economic Community. When that market was lost- it was apparent years before that it was going to be lost- we were ill prepared. The dairy industry and the Government just did not face up to the writing that was on the wall. There was always an air of inevitability that we would just sit back and let it happen. Now it has happened, and of course the whole of the industry is in complete chaos. 
It is not a question of inefficiency within the industry. I think it is generally conceded that the Australian dairy industry is one of the most efficient in the world- possibly the most efficient, perhaps with the exception of New Zealand, but certainly vastly more efficient than the European industry. I understand that it costs the EEC $2,600m a year to subsidise its dairy industry and to keep it in existence. This is little wonder when one looks at the size of the farms. I believe that the average size of a dairy herd in France is 3 cows; in Germany it is 9 cows; and in EEC generally there is an average of only 1 .4 cows per farm. When we compared this with the average holding in Australia of 73 cows per farm we can see that there is no question that the efficiency of our dairy industry is vastly superior to that of the European Economic Community. 
I think it is quite apparent that the chaoticstate of the industry today is due almost entirely to the fact that neither the industry nor the Government was prepared to face up to the realities of the future prospects of the industry. If we had faced up to them in the early 1960s, when the signs were apparent to those who wanted to see them, the industry would not be in the situation it is in today. In some ways the measures suggested in these Bills merely perpetuate this lack of reality in our approach to the industry. I refer particularly to those moneys provided for carry-on loans. I understand that this money is for use in cases where dairy farms are considered to be uneconomical for the time being or might become economic if satisfactory market conditions were restored. Unless there is real cause to believe that satisfactory market conditions could be restored in the near future, what is the point of giving carry-on money in this sector of the industry? If those farms are not economic now, what is the reason to believe that they will be economic in two, three, four or even five years time? If there are grounds for believing that they might be, the Minister should spell out those grounds. 
I do not believe that there are any grounds for optimism in the market today. Certainly there are underdeveloped countries where markets for Australian dairy products may develop at some time in the future and we certainly should not discount these prospects and we should pursue them, but I do not think this is a possibility in the near foreseeable future. Of course, when those markets do eventuate our rural resources are flexible enough to be able to respond to them at the appropriate time. But this does not mean that we should sustain unviable sectors of the industry just on the unrealistic prospect that they may become viable at some future date. This approach is just not good enough. It is the sort of approach that has led us up the garden path in the past and it is not the sort of approach that will lead to the industry being placed on a sound footing in the future. 
I have the greatest sympathy for dairy farmers, particularly those with young families, who find themselves trapped in or locked into the dairy industry- and they certainly are trapped in and locked into it. Their lands are mortgaged to banks and their stock often is subject to stock mortgages. They have hire purchase commitments for essential machinery. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
Before the suspension of the sitting I was saying that I have the greatest sympathy for dairy farmers, and particularly those with young families, who find themselves locked into the dairy industry and just cannot get out. Those people are locked in with land mortgages or stock mortgages; many of them have hire purchase commitments on equipment which they need. They have all these sorts of obligations but they do not receive the income necessary to meet those obligations. They have an asset on paper, and that is all it is. They may have a paper asset of hundreds of thousands of dollars, but in actual fact it is valueless because they just cannot cash it in. Many of these people have gone on for years in that way. They have made all sorts of sacrifices for themselves and for their families in the hope that some day things would come good, that conditions would improve. But in actual fact there was no prospect of improvement, and they should have been told that there was no prospect of improvement. The writing was on the wall. Nobody wanted to tell the truth. 
I have the greatest sympathy for those people. They have suffered for many years. Many of them have gone without a holiday year after year; many of them had to deprive their children of adequate education. Because they live in remote areas the children do not have access to a school and the parents cannot afford to send them to private schools. There is no question that they are placed in a very difficult position. They have my greatest sympathy. But I have no sympathy whatever for the political manipulators in the Government, and particularly those in the National Country Party, who have deliberately sustained the dairy farmers in a state of poverty for a long while. It is all too true that the greatest areas of poverty in the dairy industry are to be found in the blue ribbon seats held by the National Country Party. They have held those seats by misleading the electors into thinking that they are acting in their interests. Of course, they have not been acting in the interests of the electors at all. They have been sustaining them in a state of poverty and they should be ashamed of their record in that respect. They have sustained those people by keeping them going on subsidies, propping them up in the hope that things would get better when there was no real prospect of them getting better at all. 
They have been able to do that with the assistance of the gerrymander of electoral boundaries which gives a distorted value to National Country Party votes. The record is there for everyone to see. The National Country Party has perpetuated a state of poverty in the dairy industry and I think it is time that the people in the rural electorates woke up to what is going on and woke up to the fact that the National Country Party does not in fact work in their interests, that it works to their detriment in sustaining them in a state which is not viable and from which there is no prospect of improvement. It is time that people woke up to that fact. I think they are about to wake up to it and that will be reflected in future elections. It was reflected in the last New South Wales election in which there was a swing of about 8 per cent or 9 per cent against the National Country Party. That gives an indication that the country people are waking up to the way in which honourable members of the National Country Party have misled them over many years. 
1 wish to raise again a matter concerning the Woden Valley Hospital in order to make available to the Parliament and the public additional information which I now have and which will endorse and justify previous allegations which I have made in the House concerning the boycott of salaried specialists by private specialists in that hospital. I do not bring this information to the House in order to denigrate the professional ability of a private specialist who I believe is held in the highest esteem by his colleagues and his patients. I make this information available in order to justify and verify my assertion that the boycott of salaried specialists by private specialists creates potentially intolerable conditions for the smooth and efficient working of our medical services and that such conditions can create unnecessary risks to patients in particular circumstances. I believe that the public and the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  are entitled to be fully informed and apprised of the dangers that are inherent in this situation if it is allowed to continue. 
To support this allegation I would now like to quote from a number of reports made by salaried specialists to the Australian Capital Territory Health Commission at their request. The first one is from  Dr Paul  Maher who is a salaried specialist who was assisting the private specialist on the night in question. The report reads: 

 Dr McGonical at some stage had spoken to a private anaesthetist who gave the anaesthetic. This surprised me as I would have thought in the same circumstances it would have been more medically sound to use those people who had been concerned with the patient's resuscitation. 
The next statement I have is from  Dr Heather  Lopert who was the salaried anaesthetist involved on the night in question. She said: 
I was just preparing to give the patient a dose of narcotic when  Dr McGonical  asked me to step outside the anaesthetic room into the corridor.  Dr McGonical  spoke very quietly and I cannot remember the exact words he used. He said something to the effect that he wished to avoid any unpleasantness but a private anaesthetist was on his way into the hospital and asked me to leave. I was very upset and very anxious about the patient but I felt that this was no place for a confrontation which may have caused severe emotional distress to both the surgeon and the theatre staff who had difficult work to do and I did not want the patient disturbed. So I agreed to leave. I walked down the corridor as far as the changing room and then returned to the anaesthetic room to verbally inform  Dr McGonical  of what treatment I had already given the patient so that the information could be passed on to the anaesthetist when he arrived. I repeated the details at least twice as I was concerned for the patient's safety. 
I was very concerned about the patient as I felt that I myself was already involved in his care and this abrupt changeover was not in his best interests. 
It is quite apparent from  Dr Lopert's  statement that she was very disturbed, not only that it embarrassed her but she was concerned for the welfare and safety of the patient. 
I believe that the statements of the salaried officers which I have quoted indicate quite conclusively that this episode at the Woden Valley Hospital did interrupt the continuity of the treatment and did undoubtedly increase the risk to the patient. To remove any doubt that this was the case and to show that it is not based on my unskilled judgment I now quote from a report of  Dr Elvin,  who is the Regional Co-ordinator of the Southern Region of the A.C.T. Health Commission: 
It took some 2 hours to resuscitate the patient and the resuscitation team then took the patient to theatre for the attention of the orthopaedic surgeon everything being in readiness to the point of the patient receiving anaesthetic pre-medication. The private surgeon advised the team that he had sent for a private anaesthetist and did not require them. The resuscitation team was asked to leave, but was not asked to professionally hand over a patient of whom they had close knowledge. 
I further quote, and this is a very pertinent quote: 
The fact that the patient did not die does not remove the extra danger that was created for him at a critical time. 
This is a quite unequivocal statement by a very senior, experienced and highly respected medical practitioner that the patient was subjected to extra danger that was created for him at a critical time. 
I hesitated to make this information available in case it might cause some distress to the patient involved and I apologise if this is so, but I also feel very strongly that the situation was so potentially dangerous and intolerable that the public interest demands that it should be exposed to public and government scrutiny so that hopefully some serious effort is made by the Australian Medical Association and by the Government to reach some agreement so that episodes such as the one I have described will not be repeated at the Woden Valley Hospital or any other hospital. 
I support the Australian Capital Territory Electricity Supply Amendment Bill. Chiefly, it removes a grave salary injustice suffered by the  Chairman  of the Australian Capital Territory Electricity Authority. At the moment he is in the embarrassing position of being paid considerably less than some of his principal technical officers. The Australian Capital Territory Electricity Authority is an extremely efficient body which provides an excellent and very consistent electricity supply to the people of Canberra at reasonable tariffs. It is quite unfair that the  Chairman  should suffer a salary injustice. 
According to the second reading speech of the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Staley)  this Bill will amend the Act in 3 areas. Firstly, it replaces all references to the Australian Capital Territory Advisory Council with references to the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly. This is a purely legalistic amendment, since so far the Assembly has no greater formal powers than the previous Advisory Council had. Judging by the progress that is being made in this direction by the Government it will be some time before the Assembly gets any substantial powers. Secondly, the opportunity is taken by the existence of this Bill to update the language of the principal Act, bringing it into line with current drafting practice. Thirdly and most importantly, as I have mentioned, the Bill amends the provisions of the principal Act dealing with the remuneration and allowances of members of the Australian Capital Territory Electricity Authority. 
As I have said, under existing legislation the remuneration of the  Chairman  or his temporary replacement is determined by the GovernorGeneral while other members nave their attendance fees determined by the Minister. This method of remuneration has led to senior staff such as the top engineers employed by the Authority being better paid than the Chiarman purely because of the failure to review the Chairman's salary. It has become the general practice for the salaries and fees of people in positions similar to the ACTEA  Chairman  and members to be set in the same manner as those of members of Parliament. These officers are placed in a similar position of deprivation as members of Parliament, particularly back benchers, because of the failure of the Remuneration Tribunal to update salaries. Other officers in a similar position are the Australian Captial Territory Fire Commissioner, the  Chairman  and members of the Australian Capital Territory Health Commission, and  Chairman  and members of the Interim Australian Capital Territory Technical and Further Education Authority. They are all placed in this rather unenviable position. This amendment will bring the principal Act into line with current legislative practice. 
Considering the vulnerability of the Australian Capital Territory to shortages and interruptions to deliveries of fuel and electricity, this Bill will have presented an excellent opportunity for the Government to introduce an energy and fuel authority for the Territory. The Electricity Authority could be expanded to become the A.C.T. fuel authority. This was suggested by a former very enlightened Minister for the Capital Territory, the honourable member for Wills  (Mr 
Bryant). If the Australian Labor Party Government had not been interrupted and obstructed in the way it was we well may have had an A.C.T. fuel authority by now. It would have responsibility for the distribution of electricity, petroleum products and forms of fuel other than petrol. All of these are required for heating by all sections of the community, that is, public, private, commercial and industrial. 
There are 2 very good reasons why such an authority should be established. The first is that at present the A.C.T. relies totally on imported fuel, and in the past supplies have been subject to the vagaries of the supplier, the delivering companies, or industrial action by unions involved in the production or delivery of these fuels. The fuels authority would be required to establish storage facilities for both liquid and solid fuels so that the community could withstand any delivery problems for up to 3 months. As this stock of fuel would be for community services its cost should be provided for by the community. At the same time the authority could be allowed to trade in fuel in the market place to help defray costs for holding large stocks of fuel and to remove any possibility of fuel degradation while allowing the stocks to be totally idle rather than being continually moved into and out of storage. The second function of such a fuel authority could be to derive, promote and co-ordinate rational and efficient fuel usage within the Australian Capital Territory. At present the major fuels used for non-transport consumption are electricity, liquefied petroleum gas, diesel oil, heating oil, furnace oil, wood and a limited amount of both brown and black coal. Electricity and petroleum products account for 90 per cent of the total fuel consumed in the Territory. 
Future energy demand patterns and the most suitable forms of fuel to meet these demands have to be examined and some form of policy formulated, firstly, to reduce the impact of increases in fuel prices, particularly for petroleum products, and secondly, to guarantee supplies of economic alternative fuels as the future supplies of indigenous crude oil run down and the country as a whole becomes more reliant on imported crude oil. Of course the importance of both these requirements depends on the growth rate and the growth pattern of the A.C.T. The present Government with its financial constraints has reduced the Public Service growth rate, but the A.C.T. has grown to the point where it tends to be self-generating to an extent with a demand for growth in light industry, service industry, which could cause a shift in energy usage. Under existing structures of the A.C.T., the Electricity Authority undertakes forward projections for electricity demand, but these forecasts tend to be in isolation from or competition with other fuel sources rather than coordinated with forecasts of future demand for other fuels. 
As the cost of petroleum products increases the A.C.T. will become more reliant on the supply of electricity from New South Wales. At present about 30 per cent of its requirements come from that source. The capacity of the New South Wales system is more than adequate to meet the demands of the Territory for a considerable time. Because of the scale of its operations, capital costs of increased supply are lower to the individual user than would be the case for any power plant construction in the A.C.T. Further, through the participation in the New South Wales inter-connected grid the Australian Capital Territory has a higher level of reliability of supply than would exist if it were isolated to its own scheme and the Snowy Mountains hydroelectricity scheme. 
Although it would be very uneconomic for the fuel authority to undertake its own electricity generation, one of the authority's functions would be to examine means of reducing the demand for electricity. On the surface, 2 options seem applicable to reducing the future electricity demand. They are, of course, natural gas and solar energy. Unfortunately, natural gas reserves are not situated near the Australian Capital Territory, and it would appear that a spur line from the Moomba-Sydney gas pipeline is now unlikely to be built. This failure to connect the Australian Capital Territory to the main gas grid is regrettable, because at this time studies have shown that the connection of the Australian Capital Territory, with gas reticulation in a typical Australian Capital Territory new town, is a viable economic proposition. At present the reserves of gas in the Cooper Basin are inadequate to meet the projected demand of Sydney and Adelaide, let alone the Australian Capital Territory. If reserves are doubled in the near future there may still be a possibility of piping natural gas to Canberra. 
Solar energy for domestic use and for low heat for commercial use is another proposition. Not only is it technically feasible, but if approached on a sufficient scale it is economically viable. As the co-ordinator of energy use, the fuel authority could request that all major office blocks in the Australian Capital Territory derive their hot water and room heating from solar heaters and have electric or oil units to supplement the system. Another area in which the fuel authority could aid the implementation of solar heaters is government housing, by requesting the contractors to install solar units which met the authority's specifications. All these are real possibilities which in the present situation should be investigated. Although Western Australia already has a Fuel and Power Commission, the introduction of a progressive fuel authority in the Australian Capital Territory, which demonstrated that co-ordinated and planned energy consumption was practical, could act as a model for other parts of Australia, particularly eastern Australia. It would ensure that an imbalance was not developed by the overutilisation of electricity in competition with alternative sources of energy and that there was a more rational approach to matching the demand for energy with the finite resources available in Australia. 
I should like to respond to some comments made by my colleague, the honourable member for Canberra  (Mr Haslem),  last Thursday night during the adjournment debate regarding a Press release issued by the Council of the Social Services of the Australian Capital Territory. On that occasion the honourable member took strong exception to this statement. He referred to it as mischievous and partisan. I should like to challenge his view and suggest that the statement was quite truthful and very relevant. The people of Canberra have indeed been asked to pay their way. The honourable member for Canberra told only part of the story when he said that the Council had received a $7,000 increase under the Liberal Government. The fact is that the Council was completely excluded from any social security subsidy this year. Whereas last year it received $12,500, this year it received nothing. Therefore the $7,000 increase to which the honourable member referred is in fact a net decrease for the Council of $4,500. This sum, I might add, represents the wage of a secretary for the Council. 
The honourable member referred to the 87.75 per cent increase in social welfare funding in the 
Australian Capital Territory. I am sure that he knows as well as I do that most of this appropriation will be spent on rent subsidies which are the only relief from the hardship imposed on low income earners in the Australian Capital Territory by the Government's policy of increasing rents on Government housing to market values. This is an initiative reserved by the Government exclusively for the people of Canberra. It has not been done in any other capital city of Australia. The planning of Canberra is obviously destined to wallow in indecision during the remainder of this Government's reign as this year's Budget restriction will, in the main, allow the National Capital Development Commission to finish current works only and gives no substantial funds for any new major projects. Unfortunate workers who have been caught in the collapse of the building and construction industry cannot leave and go elsewhere because the Government has placed its dead hand on the building and construction industry throughout the whole of Australia. Wherever these unfortunate people go, they will be classed as dole bludgers by Government supporters. 
The whole emphasis in the Budget of course has been on wage restraint; not a word has been said about price restraint. It will be of no comfort to the housewives of Canberra who see the prices rising week by week on the shelves to see that the great retailers such as Coles and Woolworths have shown substantial profit increases in last year's trading. No doubt their Canberra outlets contributed handsomely to these profits. Should the honourable member for Canberra and his colleagues be unaware of the effect the Government's policies are having on the residents of Canberra, he may be interested to know that Lifeline, a community organisation well known throughout Australia, has had an increase of 2000 calls during the last 6 months. There are 2500 people in Canberra who earn under $80 a week and 500 of these are classified as very low income earners. These are the people who will pay an extra $30 a year for each of their children to travel by bus to school. This is another special for Canberra. These are the people for whom child care funds have been drastically cut. These are the people who face a minimum 2.5 per cent levy for health care after 1 October. 
They are also the people whose Government housing loan repayments have been increased up to $27 a month. This is due to the Government's arbitrarily increasing interest rates on existing loans to 914 per cent. When I checked round today to see what was happening in the States with regard to comparable rates, I found that in 
New South Wales and Victoria they were 5.5 per cent and in South Australia they were 5.5 per cent or 614 per cent, subject to a means test. So here again we are getting special treatment from this Government. I was approached by a service club today which had been accumulating funds for several years for homes for aged people. It found out in the Budget that the Government is not prepared to contribute $1. The club cannot get on with the project although its share of the necessay money is available. The people of the Australian Capital Territory are being asked not only to pay their way but they are also being asked to help pay the way for the extravagant handouts to the mining companies, for the superphosphate bounty and for the increasing fees of the medical profession. 
I ask the Minister for Defence whether he has noted that Budget Statement No. 4 indicates that the increase in appropriations for salaries and allowances over actual outlays in the previous year for the armed Services is: Navy 7 per cent, Army 7 per cent and Air Force 5 per cent. Has he also noted that the Budget projects average earnings as increasing by 12 per cent this year? Does this mean that the Government intends to make it clear to members of the armed services that life is not meant to be made easy for them under the Lynch Budget? 
I do not want to speak about the shipbuilding industry, which is of great immediate concern because of the prospect of causing unemployment to thousands and thousands of Australians, but about a matter which I think should concern all Australians and particularly all members of the Parliament; that is, the problems and the future of the Australian War Memorial in Canberra. I am concerned that the Government's misguided economic policy, especially in relation to public service ceilings, could possible result in some long-term damage to the War Memorial, which has become an invaluable part of our national heritage. The Australian War Memorial is one of the great war memorials and museums of the world. Tens of thousands of Australians visit the Memorial each year and hundreds of overseas visitors are lavish in their praise of its theme, its contents and its displays. Some honourable members will recall the visit we had last year from the Canadian Parliamentary delegation. This well-travelled group of people volunteered to me that one of the most impressive things which they had seen in the whole of their travels, and certainly in Australia, was their visit to the Australian War Memorial in Canberra. Many of these visitors stressed the great emotional impact which the display had made on them and all of those to whom I spoke were unanimous that they had seen nothing to compare with the quality of the display in any part of the world in which they had travelled. 
It has deservedly earned the admiration of both Australian and overseas visitors for 2 particular reasons. First, I think a very important aspect of the Memorial is that it does not glorify war. Its theme very much is the tragedy, the pity and the sacrifice of war. It graphically portrays the utter futility of war. It is first and foremost a memorial to the tens of thousands of Australians who have paid the supreme sacrifice for their country. It is thus fittingly the scene of the national Anzac Day and Remembrance Day ceremonies. Secondly, it is not only a great memorial but also a great institution because of its holdings. It is a museum, an art gallery and a library. As a military museum with 40 000 war relics, it ranks among the great military museums of the world. Its art collection is, I am told, superior in terms of quantity and quality, to any like institution in the world. As a library, it houses the largest collection of military history and science material in the country and this collection ranks also as one of the world's major collections. 
Finally, all historians are aware that the Australian War Memorial is charged with the responsibility of producing the official histories of Australia at war. The 2 official histories of Australia in World Wars I and II are among the finest military histories ever produced. In the 1975-76 Budget, the appropriation for the War Memorial was almost $850,000. This year the appropriation is just over $lm. Whilst we applaud this marginal increase, unfortunately it does not provide for additional specialist staff and, in particular, for badly needed conservation and curatorial staff. I understand there is currently a request for 12 more staff at the museum and I would urge the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers)  and the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  to consider this request sympathetically as a matter of priority. Until 1968 there was no conservation staff at all at the War Memorial. Since that time there has been only a token staff consisting of one trained conservator plus one paid staff member and one volunteer, with no hope of increased staff for the advancement of this particularly important area. On the curatorial staff there are only 2 curators, one in art and the other in relics. In order to maintain its high standards, the War Museum clearly needs more money, particularly for specialist staffing. 
I should like to refer to a recent conference at the Australian National University on the conservation of cultural materials. Eminent authorities including the Head of the scientific department of the National Gallery in London declared that Australia had an opportunity to establish a system of conserving its cultural and historical materials that could be looked on as a model for the rest of the world. In relation to his own country, he said that the whole thing has grown up haphazardly. Let us learn from the experience of other countries and adequately finance the protection of our national heritage. 
One of the most serious problems facing the War Memorial is that of the conservation of the valuable relics it holds. This particularly is the case in the area of textile material, paper, and oil paintings. Conservation work has been carried out only on a very minor scale, mainly because the Memorial has only one trained conservator. At this time it should also be noted that there are few facilities for the training of qualified people to assure the preservation of cultural materials in Australia. The vast majority of people employed in this work are either from other countries or have received their training in other countries. 
In addition, proper storage facilities for priceless relics and valuable paintings are entirely lacking. What is urgently required is adequate storage facilities with proper temperature and humidity controls, because it must be remembered that the War Memorial can display only a fraction of its extensive collection at one time, and needs periodically to rotate and replace display material. If proper storage facilities are not quickly provided, millions of dollars worth of damage could be done to certain items. 
At the conference to which I previously referred at the Australian National University, it was also noted by Australian authorities that ministerial support generally has been lacking for the preservation of historical and cultural material in Australia.  Dr Pearson,  of the conservation laboratory in Western Australia, was emphatic in stating the need for immediate steps to ensure preventative conservation in order to halt the deterioration of irreplaceable cultural materials in Australia. There is not time to delineate all the areas which require attention at the War Memorial. It is sufficient to say that the small and extremely dedicated staff works under severe difficulties. It is a great tribute to the Director and his staff that the War Memorial functions as well as it does. However, a modern museum must move with the times. It must have a staff of education officers to cope with the ever increasing demands of the many students on its facilities. It must have a bigger library staff and adequate reading facilities for research workers and authors. 
The Board of Trustees is gravely concerned about these problems. The hard-working staff is concerned, and the Government should be concerned about the future of this great national Memorial. The Australian War Memorial, standing at the foot of Mount Ainslie and facing Parliament House, commemorates the achievements and sacrifices of Australians at war. It was one of the first permanent public buildings in this city. This fact in itself is an indication of an important priority. We see it every day, but let us not take it for granted. Let us give serious thought to its needs. It would be a great betrayal of the memory of those men and women it commemorates if it were not to be adequately financed and staffed to cope with expanding needs and demands. It would indeed be a tragedy and a betrayal to future generations of Australians if we were to allow this unique feature of our national heritage to become run down and permanently damaged merely through the blind adherence of the 
Government to some sterile and doubtful theory about inflation and unemployment. The previous Government was seriously considering the problems of the War Memorial, after many years of neglect by conservative governments but was not given the opportunity to get its improvement plans under way. I appeal to the present Government to give top priority to the consideration of the urgent needs of the Australian War Memorial in Canberra. 
We come to look to the annual Budget as the principal means by which the Government manages the national economy and generally gives effect to its overall economic strategy. In the Budget we should be able to read about the Government's concern, or lack of it, for the long-term health of the individual sectors of the economy and we should find reflected the Government's priorities in regard to the welfare of the different sectors or groups in the community. The Budget we have before us is undoubtedly a misguided Budget. It is dangerously obsessive in its economic strategy. I believe it is short-sighted in its harsh treatment of those sectors of the economy whose health is vital to economic strength in the long term. I believe also that the Budget is persimonious to the point of being vicious in its treatment of those people such as Aborigines and the unemployed, and particularly the young unemployed, whose interests the Government ought to feel obliged to protect and to defend. 
The case against the Government in its overall economic strategy has been admirably put by my many colleagues. But let us look once again at the situation which faces us in the year ahead under the Lynch Budget. When we examine the main economic indicators in the Budget, we find that economic growth will not exceed 4 per cent in the non-farm sector, an appallingly low rate by comparison with what ought to be expected in a phase of recovery from recession and with what is expected to be achieved in other comparable countries. Turning to unemployment, we find that the unemployment rate may reach 6 per cent of the work force with the brunt of the burden falling most severely upon the poor, the young, the women and the rural sector. We find that average earnings will increase by no more than 12 per cent- of course, inflation will eat up at least that much of incomes- and that revenue from income taxes will rise by as much as 25 per cent. 
Let me turn to the demand for money. The demand for money, taking into account both inflation and economic expansion, such as it may be, is expected to grow by 16 per cent, while the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  proposes to keep the growth in the supply of money to no more than 12 per cent. In short, there will be no appreciable decline in the present high levels of interest rates with their damaging consequences for home buyers and business investment which the Government claims is essential for economic recovery. So at the best, this looks like a stategy of stagnation. In fact, there is a very strong possibility that the outcome will be a good deal worse than stagnation. The reason is the Government's dangerous obsession with a presumed relationship between inflation and unemployment and with the size of the Budget deficit. 
We are told that the nation 's first priority must be the reduction of inflation, that the reduction of the deficit is a key element in bringing that about, and that prolonged high unemployment is the price we must pay. Yet we know that the real reason underlying the Government's concern with the deficit is little more than its very questionable acceptance of the bankrupt ideologies of Rand and the monetarist economist, Friedman. We also know that economists, members of a profession notorious for their inability to reach consensus, are more than usually divided on the question whether more unemployment means less inflation. This Government is perfectly happy, it seems, to impose tremendous costs upon the economically weaker sections of the Australian community while it takes a punt on a very doubtful assumption of the relationship between unemployment and inflation. Indeed, responsible opinion in the  Financial Review  today states that to rely on unemployment to control inflation would require an everincreasing level of unemployment and not just a stationary level of unemployment. 
Contrary to the Government's view, it is equally reasonable to believe that the rate of inflation will be reduced no more than marginally, if at all, by the further increase in unemployment which is envisaged by the Treasurer. What will happen then? The Treasurer's projection of economic growth for 1976-77 can be predicted only upon the assumption that there will be substantial stock building by business in the years ahead. Others say that even if we do have a build-up in stock, this will not reflect- any drop in the unemployment rate as it will take up only the existing slack in industry. Manufacturers will certainly stop adding to their stocks, so precipitating a return to the declining economic activity if demand for their products does not materialise. Yet there can be no incentive for consumers to reduce their propensity to save when they see the prospect of unemployment looming larger still. Nor will there be much hope of increased real consumption out of earnings which will not increase at all in real terms. 
The Government has already abandoned its absurd belief in the possibility of an investmentled economic recovery. Now it seems intent upon denying Australians the prospect of a recovery led by consumer demand as well. We on this side of the House also believe in the importance of reducing inflation. Continued high inflation can have only progressively more severe consequences upon our international trading position and for the distribution of the fruits of economic activity away from those who can least afford it. We believe, therefore, that it is crucial that the Budget strategy adopted for 1976-77 should be one which does not so obviously reflect extreme ideologies or a willingness on the part of government to gamble on unproven hypothesis. It is quite plain that the Government could take more positive steps to bring about economic recovery. One has only to look at. that startling gap between the probable demand for money in the year ahead and the Government's substantially lower target which reflects the severe restraints based upon public expenditure. I do not suggest that the scope for greater stimulation by the public sector is by any means large. But by even quite small additional spending in areas of greatest need in the economy it would have been possible to engender a significant strengtening in the confidence of Australians in the future. 
I said earlier that the Budget is plainly shortsighted in its neglect of sectors of the economy whose capacities must be preserved. It is inevitable that a government so obsessed with reducing public expenditure will discover that cuts are most readily made in its capital spending programs. The result, however, is that the impact will be felt most severely in the construction industry which unfortunately is already in the throes of one of the worst recessions it has ever experienced. Nowhere is this more evident than in the Australian Capital Territory. The capacity of such an industry is hard-won and fragile. The longer the recession continues, the more likely it will be that the skilled work force built up will be dissipated and its ability to respond to increased demand when it does eventually appear will be reduced. Yet the Budget incorporates a 13 per cent decline in real terms in funding for roads; it reduces funds for sewerage by $63m; it reduces funds for land development by $2 9m, and so on. 
Then again, it is vital that our rural industries, some of which are in quite desperate circumstances, should be given every chance to withstand the effects of inflation on the costs of inputs, and of reconstruction, where necessary, in an orderly fashion. There is only one measure in this Budget which could be regarded as a positive step towards improving the welfare of the farm sector; that is the introduction of the income equalisation deposits scheme. There is some justice, we must agree, in permitting those members of the community who have severely fluctuating incomes to average those incomes for taxation purposes. Yet, even with the benefit of the excellent advice of the Industries Assistance Commission, the Government has managed to produce yet another rip-off for the Pitt Street and Collins Street farmers. As my colleagues in another place have said, the rate of return upon an investor's equity in these deposits, with the balance of the investment being deferred tax, may be nearly 3 times as much as the nominal 5 per cent rate on the deposits. But this is only for the rich- for those people with incomes in excess of $28,250 per annum. Other investors will receive lower returns. 
One might ask who else has access to giltedged investments at such a rate of interest. Will the Government claim that it was beyond its wit to devise a more equitable scheme? Honourable members will have noted, incidentally, the Treasurer's statement in his Budget Speech that non-farm business will enjoy not merely a deferral of tax under the new trading stock valuation provisions but will also have its taxes reduced. Farmers might justifiably feel that this Government's priorities do not include them. Then, of course, there is the question who will have to suffer while the Government tries out its doubtful strategy. We know already that unemployment will rise. In addition, the unemployed will find it harder to get unemployment benefits, if we are to judge by the reduced amount of money which this parsimonious Budget appropriates for the item. Will the Minister give us a detailed account of the logic which underlies this oddity? 
One reason which has been advanced as a possible explanation is that this year there will be more young people who receive lower benefits as a proportion of the total than there were in 1975-76. Moreover, it seems that these young people will not be permitted to receive benefits for at least 6 weeks after they leave school. How callous this Budget and this Government are, and how disturbingly myopic in their treatment of young people as they seek to enter the workforce for the first time. Is there anything in this Budget we might well ask which could lead them to believe that the Government actually cares enough to sustain them until job opportunities increase? Then of course there is the spectre of assistance to the Aboriginal peoples being reviewed by the accountants. 
I turn briefly to the impact of the Budget upon my own electorate. I believe that in relation to the Australian Capital Territory the Government has been deliberately vindictive. It has been provocative and it has been discriminatory. In the Australian Capital Territory the employment problem which I have just been discussing is of course much exacerbated by the Government's present policy of reducing the size of the Public Service. School leavers will find it particularly difficult to obtain employment in the administrative ranks. Last year the National Capital Development Commission spent $ 188m on capital works and services. This year it will spend only $ 195m- something like 9 per cent less than the 1975-76 vote in real terms, once we have allowed for inflation. In 1975-76 almost $25m was advanced to the Australian Capital Territory Housing Trust accounts to provide loans for government housing. This year the equivalent amount is only $12m. The impact of these measures upon the building and construction industry in the Australian Capital Territory must be severe, not just in the year to come but for some years beyond that. In that regard it is particularly disturbing that, whereas capital works in progress under the administration of the NCDC had some $258m yet to be spent on them from 1 July 1976, the equivalent figure at the beginning of next financial year can be no more than $2 16m. 
Of course Canberra is not the only growth centre which is to undergo such convulsions at the behest of this Government. The crisis of confidence amongst businessmen in AlburyWodonga is a consequence of this Government's vacillation as the future of that growth centre is already evident. Honourable members opposite are fond of paying lip service to the idea of decentralisation in Australia. The Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  has said: 
We are committed to a policy to restrain urban growth and foster regional growth. 
Does this Budget give any evidence of that policy? 
Then there is the receipt side of the ledger for the Australian Capital Territory. Budget statement No. 4 tells us that whereas in 1975-76 receipts of the Department of the Capital Territory were almost $90m, this year those same items are to produce an extra $23m of revenue. This is to come out of the pockets of the workers. How is this to be done? It is to be done by raising rates, by nearly doubling public transport revenue, by increasing interest and principal repayments on government housing loans by 16 per cent and by increasing rents on government houses. Some people have to pay up to $20 more out of their pay packet each week to meet all these extra levies of the Budget. This first Budget of the Fraser Government has already given us ample evidence of what we in the Australian Capital Territory can expect during this Government's term of office. 
In summary, this is a risky Budget in terms of its high potential for failure in overall economic management. It is a parsimonious Budget because the potential query exists for there to be more economic stimulation flowing from more generous treatment of those in the community who most deserve assistance. It is a short sighted Budget in its selectively harsh treatment of the construction and rural industries, and of the growth centres- those first concrete initiatives ever taken in decentralisation policy in this country. I support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitiam). 
I direct my question to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. The Minister will be aware that the Public Service Arbitrator recently awarded the Miscellaneous Workers Union in the Australian Capital Territory a wage increase of $5.70 a week. He will also be aware that the Public Service Board has appealed against this rather meagre award. I ask the Minister: Is the Government's income policy such that any award given to industrial workers, no matter how meagre, should be opposed while income increases for professional people in the community, such as members of the medical profession, even if they amount to $100 a week, should be meekly accepted and applauded as being moderate and reasonable, whether or not they are morally justifiable? Will he intervene to prevent the Public Service Board from appealing against the miscellaneous workers award. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What financial assistance has been provided or is proposed by the Federal Government to organisations or individuals engaged in research to combat or alleviate diabetes. 
I direct my question to the Prime Minister. Following his recent discussions with the Indonesian Government, will he please inform the House what action, if any, the Government intends to take to restrict or inhibit the actions of the few members of the Fretilin Party in Australia, or those who may wish to visit Australia in the future? 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
What decision has been made regarding the future of the International Training Institute at Middle Head, N.S. W. 
What (a) program and (b) staff cuts will be made. 
Will the Institute be assured of continuance after 1977. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Construction. I refer to the day labour force of the Department of Construction which enjoys a high reputation for the quality of its work in maintaining government property and services throughout Australia. I ask the Minister: Will he indicate whether he is considering any significant reduction in the day labour force of the Department which might contribute further to the serious unemployment problem in Australia? 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
1 ) Did the Treasurer's Budget Speech on page 6 1 refer to funds being provided to the States for housing at interest rates of 5.75 percent. 
In his Press statement of 3 June 1976 regarding housing, did he state that Government rents in the Australian Capital Territory should be based on amortisation of the costs at an interest rate of 9.25 per cent. 
) If the position is as stated, what explanation is there for the people  of the Australian Capital Territory paying interest rates of 9.25 per cent, when their taxes are being used to fund housing in the States at the interest rate of 5.75 per cent. 
I wish to speak briefly about the Australian Defence Force Academy- or Services university- the establishment of which was announced in this House by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  on 20 October 1976. The new institution is to be built in Canberra in my electorate adjacent to the Royal Military College of Australia, which is generally referred to as Duntroon, at a cost of some $45m. As the Minister said, such an institution was first envisaged under a previous coalition government and the concept was endorsed by the Labor Government in 1974. 1 welcome this announcement for 2 reasons. Firstly the long delay in coming to a firm decision was causing a lot of concern in the armed Services especially to the cadets and staff of the 3 colleges concerned. Secondly we welcome the announcement because the building of this institution will provide a much needed boost to the building industry which has suffered very severe setbacks under this Government by way of restriction, of money for housing and the restriction of the budget for the National Capital Development Commission. 
-I am very pleased to hear my colleague, the honourable member for Canberra, agreeing with me. Naturally some considerable time will elapse before this project will get underway and actual employment will be provided. 
I do not wish to reiterate the main points of the Minister's statement with which most members I am sure will concur, but I want to refer to certain unfortunate expressions or phrases in his statement which I believe were a little unfair to the students and the staff of the Royal Military College, Duntroon. The Minister, for instance, spoke of three small colleges now situated at Jervis Bay, Duntroon and Point Cook. While it is true to say that they are small compared with the proposed institution, it is also true that the RMC is larger than both the Naval College and the Royal Australian Air Force Academy combined. Furthermore, the Minister might have mentioned or spelt out that for the past 10 years RMC Duntroon has been the scene of a unique experiment in Service education. The academic teaching there has been carried out by the Faculty of Military Studies of the University of New South Wales in Sydney. Cadets on graduating have been granted degrees in arts, applied sciences and engineering. Honours degrees are also available in science and engineering. I understand that for the first time honours degrees in arts are expected to be awarded this year. The Faculty has numerous post-graduate students and an impressive array of research is carried out in the humanities as well as in the sciences. 
The Minister also said that the new institution would offer more- attraction to academic staff of high quality and that it would aspire to academic excellence. 
I thought the honourable member for Riverina would have been all in favour of this. While the Minister probably did not intend to cast aspersions on the staff of the- present college I think these remarks are rather unfair, particularly to RMC Duntroon. The Royal Military College, as anyone in the University community would know, has a distinguished academic staff of over eighty, some of whom have world wide reputations and who already aspire to academic excellence. 
It would also be of interest to Canberra people to know whether the new Academy is to be a closed shop available only to educate Service personnel or whether in appropriate circumstances when places are available other people in the community may be accepted for enrolment. I refer particularly to the proposed engineering degree course which is not available in any other institution in Canberra. I hope that the Minister will give some consideration to this proposition. Finally, though the Minister did note that several universities were playing a useful role in helping to upgrade Service education, he might have paid a more fulsome tribute to the University of New South Wales which has done more to advance the cause of officer education than any other Australian university, and I say that despite the behaviour of the honourable member for Riverina. 
-Will the Minister for Primary Industry give the wheat growers of Australia, including the ones in the Australian Capital Territory, the satisfaction of knowing what price per bushel is going to be paid for the new season's wheat crop which is about to be harvested? Has the Cabinet considered this matter? When will a decision on it be announced? 
I refer the Minister for Foreign Affairs to the Government's recent decision to grant humanitarian aid to the people of East Timor through the Indonesian Red Cross rather than through the International Red Cross. Is it intended that the Australian Red Cross will have the opportunity to exercise some supervision or a watching role over the distribution of Australian aid in East Timor? If this is not so, will the Minister ask the Indonesian Government that such supervision by Australian Red Cross authorities be permitted to ensure that such aid is used for the purpose for which it is intended and in fact is applied to areas of greatest need? 
Is the Minister for Foreign Affairs aware that a foreign diplomat in Canberra recently sold 2 imported cars at a profit of about $9,000 each and that this is a common practice by some foreign diplomats in Canberra who import these cars quite legally without paying sales tax or import duty? Is the Minister concerned that this aspect of diplomatic privilege is being abused in Canberra? Would he consider amending the relevant section of the convention covering this privilege to extend the minimum period in which diplomats may sell imported vehicles from 2 years to 3 or 4 years. 
I should like to support my colleague the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating),  who presented the case for the Opposition in a very professional manner and not by any means in an amateurish way. Certainly I support very strongly his views and the criticism he made of the way in which the Government has mishandled the beef industry. I do not think there is any doubt that the beef industry is in a very bad way indeed. That is why the Opposition supports this Bill, but we would also take the opportunity to point our why the industry is in such a bad way and why this Government must take some responsibility for the present position of the beef industry. The honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  made some play of the fact that the Government had sought out and obtained new markets. That is very good news, and I concede that the Government did find some new markets, but they were very small markets. If they had been as successful as the honourable member claimed it would not have been necessary for Australian exporters to exploit the local producers by buying meat on an over-supplied depressed market and then dumping it on the Canadian market. If the exporters had had reasonable markets that would not have occurred, and I think the Government must take full responsibility for that. It did not happen in the time of the Labor Government; it happened in the time of this Government. It knew what was going on, and it did not raise a finger to stop it. The Government was caught out and then threw up its hands in horror. It has to take responsibility for that. The Government took no action to protect the producers, and it stands condemned in the eyes of the Australian beef industry. Members of the National Country Party of Australia in this House, of course, should have been up in arms and screaming about what was going on but they were silent. The Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  and the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  turned a blind eye and I am quite sure that they knew what was going on all the time. 
Getting back to the Bill, I notice that an extra $ 1 5m is to be provided. This raises the question, of course, of what happened to the allotment last year when $ 19.6m was made available and, I understand, only $ 12.3m was actually used. If we are asked to support this Bill, to get up and debate it and to talk about the beef industry, I think it is only fair that the Minister should come along and give us information about how that money was used last year. I think he should tell us what category of producers used that money, what size the loans were, what interest rates were paid, where the money was used and in what States the money was used. If he gave us this sort of relevant information we would be in a better position to make a judgment about whether this extra amount of money is now justified or not. I ask the Minister to make those figures available so that we can make a better judgment. 
The other element of the proposition that I would question concerns the interest rates. Here again the information is quite vague. All we are told is that the interest rate must not be less than 4 per cent. We do not know in fact what interest rates the borrowers are paying. I am always very concerned about low interest rates because I always want to be reassured that these low interest rates are not being used to make an unviable proposition look viable. The conditions applying to the loans specify that the loans should be made available to people  who  would be viable in a normal market situation. That is fair enough, but I think that an undertaking that is viable should be able to pay an interest rate that is closer to normal interest rates. I am not suggesting that extremely high interest rates should be paid- and I deplore the present interest rates- but I think that the bottom of commercial interest rates would be a fair rate for commercial enterprises in beef production to pay. 
I am always concerned that people apply for these loans because the interest rate is low rather than because they really need the money to carry on. This is always a problem when one is offering loan money at special interest rates. I would rather increase the term of the loan than charge special interest rates. Perhaps producers would be better off to take a loan over 3 years at normal interest rates rather than to try to repay a loan over 2 years at a special interest rate. Indeed the Industries Assistance Commission report on this subject notes that a low interest rate is discriminatory when we compare the beef industry with other rural industries or other manufacturing industries. It is discriminatory and the IAC did not put up any good argument or any rationale to justify a low interest rate. I have never heard a good argument to justify low interest rates, or excessively low interest rates, in respect of rural subsidy loans or any other sort of subsidies. 
There is no question that the beef producers have had a very tough time. Everyone agrees with that. But it is very interesting to look at another section of the industry and to find that it has not had a tough time by any means. In fact, when we look at the figures we find that meat exporters have had a real butchers ' picnic at the expense of the producers. They have had a real holiday. I can produce figures which have been prepared by the Parliamentary Library, to support that statement. The figures show the trading results over the past 8 years of some of the leading meat export companies selected at random. F. J. Walker Ltd, a well known exporter, turned in a profit of $2.2m. Certainly this company has had a couple of bad years. But $2.2m is the biggest profit it has had in 8 years. A profit of $2.2m is a tremendous increase on that company's previous figures which were averaging about $0.5 m profit a year. 
The Metropolitan Meat Co. Pty Ltd turned in its biggest profit for 8 years- from $715,000 to $2.6m in 1975-76, an increase of 350 per cent. The profit of Huttons Ltd went from $870,000 to $1.3m, an increase of 60 per cent. The profit of T. A. Field Holdings Ltd went from $736,000 to $ 1 .6m, an increase of 100 per cent. Many of these companies had already shown a good increase in profit in 1974-75 as against 1973-74. 
I will come to that later. The daddy of them all, of course, is Tancred Brothers Industries Ltd which is of particular interest to the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume)  because he is one of the directors on the board of that company. I pointed out last year that Tancred Brothers had doubled its profit from $1 12,000 to $213,000. This year the profit went to $899,000. The company had a 400 per cent increase in profit after it had already doubled its profit the year before. That was a remarkable result which just follows the pattern of all the other meat exporters. Conkey and Sons Ltd increased their profit 100 per cent and maintained a 1 5 per cent dividend. 
I would like to refer to the question that was raised by my friend about earnings on capital. I do not have the capital figures but it should be noted that the higher profits of 100 per cent, and 200 per cent up to 400 per cent, were made with very small increases in turnover. This is understandable because the price of cattle was so low. The sales made by Tancred Brothers, whose profit increased by 400 per cent, went up by only 10 per cent. This reflects the low price of the stock. It means that this company's bank overdrafts are low. It means that its stock values are down. As well as increasing its profit that company has been able to do so with a much smaller amount of money. I do not have the figures on the return of capital because they are not available to me at the moment. However, in view of these figures and the fact that profits have increased by 300 and 400 per cent with a very small increase in turnover- the turnover increases seem to be around 10 per cent, 15 per cent to 20 per cent- it is apparent that these companies have been performing quite well in that respect. 
As I said, Tancred Brothers is of particular interest because the honourable member for Macarthur is a director of that company. I do not know whether the profit made by that company is a compliment to the economic advice he offers as a member of the board. I have noticed that in the last few months he has looked very happy. He always had a big smile on his face. I now know why he had a smile on his face- it was because Tancred Brothers had a 400 per cent increase in profit. The smile has gone lately because the game is up, the picnic has ended and the Minister has stopped the dumping of meat on the overseas market. 
I often wonder what the beef producers in Macarthur must think when they are represented by a member who has a vested interest in an exporting company that is making huge profits at the expense of the producer. Perhaps the National Country Party should be thinking about running a candidate for the seat of Macarthur, someone who would possibly look after their interests. But on second thoughts, that may not be necessary because I am quite confident that at the next election the Labor member, who does not have a vested interest in the meat companies, will be returned in Macarthur. I am quite sure that he would look after the interests of the beef producers as Labor Party members have always done. 
I think that in its interests it should take that precaution. It should think about this because if I were a beef producer in Macarthur I would be very unhappy if I knew that my member was on the board of a meat company that had increased its profit by 400 per cent when the producers had such a disastrous year. I seek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  a table showing the trading results of some meat exporters that has been prepared by the Parliamentary Library. 
-This Bill is concerned with the provision of funds to assist in the establishment of national parks as well as the conducting of research into the preservation and conservation of our flora and fauna. I would like to take the opportunity of saying a few words in defence of a much maligned member of the Australian fauna, namely, the Australian dingo. For many years the dingo has been the victim of a whole range of myths about its way of life, its killing habits, how it travels, how ferocious it is, and how many hundreds of head of cattle and sheep it is supposed to have destroyed. It is supposed to have imposed a huge cost upon the pastoral industry. Fortunately in recent years these myths have tended to be broken down. In more recent years some very sound research has been done which, while it is still in its infancy, has tended to result in a less emotional and more rational attitude being taken towards the dingo. It was very good to see a very fine example set recently by the newly-elected Premier of New South Wales when he suspended the dropping of 1080 baits in the Kanangra Valley on the basis that not sufficient was known about the habits of the dingo to justify having this sort of control measure. I shall certainly produce other information later which supports this contention. 
I was fortunate recently to visit east Africa, where I enjoyed looking at the magnificent animal parks and seeing thousands of animals just grazing around in their natural habitat quite oblivious to onlookers. People drive around in their cars looking at these animals and as long as the people stay in their cars the animals do not take any notice of them. I hope that we will get to the stage in Australia- particularly in Canberra, where we are about to set aside an area for the Gudgenby National Park- where we will be able to drive into certain areas and see such beautiful animals as the Australian dingo in their natural habitat in company with the other animals with which they would normally be in company. It is a magnificent sight and something that one really cannot appreciate until one has actually experienced it. So I support in general those people who are working towards a less emotive and more rational attitude being adopted towards the Australian dingo. 
One of the great problems with the dingo is differentiating between the pure dingo and the cross-bred dingo. Here again there are a lot of myths abroad. Recent research by the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation has shown that in the Gippsland area, for instance, only 20 per cent of the dingoes are not pure. In fact research into a sample of all bush dogs has shown that 75 per cent are domestic dogs gone wild so it is not correct to say that stock-killing dogs are cross-bred dingoes. A lot of them are pure domestic dogs which have gone wild. In Canberra it is quite amusing sometimes to see the great expense to which the Government is put following reports of dingoes killing stock in the Gudgenby area. Trappers and rangers are sent to that area and all sorts of resources are used to try to catch one dingo which is reported to have killed four of five sheep. There is no proof that the animal has killed the sheep, only supposition. At the same time we find here in Canberra that a domestic dog will get into sombody's paddock out near the abattoir and kill 50 to 100 sheep, yet the emotive effect is not the same. People go out and try to shoot the dog but it is an emotive approach, not a rational approach, to the problem. 
The dingo has bestowed great benefits on the Australian pastoral industry. It was used extensively in the development of the blue heeler which has been of tremendous benefit to the cattle industry. The ability of the blue heeler to nip the heels of a beast, to lay its head flat on the ground and miss its kicks has been inherited from the dingo. The blue heeler's great endurance and strong jaws also have been inherited from the Australian dingo. That is why I say that the dingo has made a great contribution to the Australian pastoral industry. 
There is little evidence of large-scale killing of stock by dingoes. Recent research was done in Armidale by a scientist named Robert Harden. He examined 800 samples of excreta from dingoes and found no evidence of stock remains. The CSIRO had similar results when it examined samples.  Mr Harden  said he found no evidence of domestic stock in any of these specimens. The examination showed that 60 per cent of the diet of the dingoes he investigated was wallaby, 15 per cent was possum and glider and the remainder was made up of other native mammals. The CSIRO found only a small proportion of domestic animals in an examination of the guts of 1000 dingoes. There is no hard evidence to support claims that dingoes kill a lot of stock in Australia. 
Another myth destroyed by research is that dingoes travel large distances. The justification for bait dropping in the Kanangra-Boyd Park of New South Wales was that dingoes went from that area to Oberon and Bathurst and attacked stock. Research has shown that they do not travel large distances. Radio transmitters were put on them and monitored and it was found that they generally stayed in an area of 2000 to 3000 hectares. This makes nonsense of dropping thousands of baits in this uninhabited country on the off-chance they will kill an odd dingo. They may kill the odd dingo but so what. We do not know how many dingoes are killed by 1080 baits, nor do we know how many birds and other animals are killed. Thousands of baits are littered indiscriminately in these national park areas. 
I hope that with this sort of research a much more rational approach will be adopted to controlling dingoes or protecting them, or whatever the case may be. I think the dingo is a noble animal that should be protected. Dingoes should be controlled in certain cases when there is firm evidence that they kill stock in any quantity but I think that quite often the dingo is used as an excuse for mismanagement. If people cannot round up the number of stock that they think they have, if they find so many sheep are missing, they blame the dingo. It is very convenient to have something to blame but evidence is not available to prove that dingoes take stock. Even in the early days of Australia we heard of convicts being flogged because they let dingoes take lambs. There was no real evidence that they were taken by dingoes, foxes, native cats, domestic dogs or anything else. 
It is good to see these mythical beliefs about the dingo being broken down gradually and a more rational approach being taken. I  hope  that the establishment of the national parks will see a continuation of that trend. I hope we get to the stage where these animals are not destroyed wholesale on a false premise and that we get the opportunity at some future time of being able to go into these parks and see dingoes in their natural habitat. I am sure people will come to appreciate the quality of the dingo as well as any disadvantages that may arise from their existance. I was in Mauritius recently and noted with interest that its national emblem is the dodo. One can buy cloth dodos, metal dodos or wooden dodos but cannot see a live dodo because they have been extinct for about 200 years. We often hear the expression 'as dead as a dodo'. I hope we never get to the stage that instead of saying that democracy in Australia is as dead as a dodo we say that democracy in Australia is as dead as a dingo. I hope dingoes never become extinct. 
-On behalf of the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory, I present the Committee's report on proposals for variations of the plan of layout of the City of Canberra and its environs, 62nd series. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I ask for leave of the House to make a short statement in connection with the report. 
-I support this Bill. It is only a machinery measure and the Opposition has no hesitation in supporting it. It is a Bill which apparently clarifies the legality of a collection by a State authority of a levy which is used for research and promotion activities. The levy is collected by the New South Wales Dairy Industry Authority on behalf of the Commonwealth. It is incredible that there should be any doubt about the legality of the New South Wales Dairy Industry Authority acting within the law in making these deductions. Although these measures are supposedly prepared by experts and are carefully debated before they are enacted we so often find at some later stage that there is some doubt about their legality, which does put a question mark against the efficiency of the people drawing up this legislation. We should not have to come back and make sure that an enactment is legal. 
The Opposition is very happy to support this Bill because it is concerned with the obtaining of money to finance dairy research and promotion activities. As a matter of general principle, we support it because it is a positive approach to the problems of the dairy industry. It is much better to have a positive approach- to put money into reseach and promotion- than to carry on continually with the negative approach of subsidising our various rural industries. If we had put a proportion of the subsidies of the past into reseach and promotion I am sure that all of our rural industries would be much better off. The adoption of that sort of positive approach will improve our industries and make them more efficient. We have always supported the principle of improving the dairy industry through research. I must say that if the dairy industry had spent as much on promoting milk and butter as the breweries have spent on promoting alcohol and as the margarine companies have spent on promoting margarine the dairy industry would be in a much sounder position. The industry should not regard this as a levy. It should regard it as an investment in the industry. There is no doubt that the industry gets very adequate returns from the money that is well applied to research programs. 
There is huge scope for improvement in the industry through research in the area of nutrition. We are now looking at our resources much more closely. I have no doubt that there is great scope for making more efficient the use of the food used by the industry. We have made great progress in the poultry industry in this area. In a few short years we have just about reduced by 50 per cent the amount of poultry food required to produce 1 lb of chicken meat. It used to require about 5 lb of food do so. It now requires about 2.5 lb or 2.2 lb. We have not made the same sort of progress in the dairy industry. But with a more sophisticated approach and greater application to research into nutrition we could improve the nutrition standards of our hand feeding of dairy herds so that we use a lesser quantity of food and get a greater return from that food in terms of the amount of food used to produce a gallon of milk. 
There is also great scope in the area of genetic research. It takes a lot longer with stock than it does with chickens, but here again we have made tremendous progress in selecting animals for rapid maturing, quick growth and higher production. Genetic research is a very costly business. It takes a long time and requires a lot of detailed application to research. It is very expensive, but if one applies the cost in a long term basis it pays off. The returns are there. 
Disease is always a very costly element in any rural industry- particularly in any stock industry. It is still costing the dairy industry quite extensive sums of money to control disease. I have no doubt that this area could be improved considerably if we were to invest in more diagnostic research laboratories and to have a better veterinary service whereby we could identify a disease more quickly and apply the latest techniques to controlling that disease or eliminating it. There is plenty of range for improvement in these areas. As I have said, it represents a positive approach as against the negative approach of the subsidy to which we have become so accustomed. 
I refer briefly to the proposal that was discussed in the last report of the Industries Assistance Commission on the dairy industry concerning a national herd improvement program. This is another area in which great improvements could be derived by the dairy industry throughout Australia. No State has a complete scheme for dairy herd improvement, although there are dairy herd improvement schemes within the States. There is no standardisation between the States on the objectives for dairy herd improvement, there is no co-ordination of programs as between the States and there is no national pool of genetic resources for dairy herd improvement. We have been in this game for a long time; yet we have not got around to developing a national herd improvement program. 
The IAC estimated at that stage that it would cost somewhere in the vicinity of $ 10m, which is not a great amount when one considers the huge amounts that go into subsidising the dairy industry. The IAC promised in its initial report that there would be another report early in 1976. 1 do not know whether it has come to light. I have not seen it. I certainly hope that the IAC is working on that report and that it will continue to try to develop a scheme for national herd improvement which will bestow great benefits on the dairy industry throughout Australia. Of course, some benefits would be derived by the consumers as well if that improvement were to lower the cost of production, and there is no doubt that that is what it would do. 
The only other thing I wish to do in respect of this matter is to appeal for a more positive approach or a less negative approach to be adopted to all of our rural industries, for more emphasis to be placed on research into and promotion of our products and for less emphasis to be placed on subsidising them. I think that we are tending to get into the groove of looking at rural industry as being something that does not have any future, something that has to be cut back and something whose prospects are very gloomy. I do not agree with that. Although there are difficulties in particular sectors of the industry at this stage there is always room for improvement in all sectors of rural industry and, of course, there is always scope in rural areas for new industries. 
Twenty years ago there was virtually no chicken meat industry in Australia. It is now a very extensive industry. People are now eating quite a lot of chicken, which, is something that they did not do 20 years ago, because we have applied science, research and promotion to that industry and we have been able to establish quite a substantial industry. Consider the vegetable oil industry. Twenty years ago very few vegetable oil crops were grown in Australia. This industry is still in its infancy and has a long way to go. We still do not produce much soya bean oil in Australia, or soya bean meal. There is still scope for improvement in those areas and therefore I think we should take a more positive approach. I think that in 20 years time we will find in the rural sector another three or four new industries that we do not know anything about today. 
I make a plea for a more positive approach towards our rural industries and for more confidence in the future. We can show that confidence by putting more money into research and promotion and looking ahead. We should not look back historically and cry about things now not being what they were 20 years ago, or about not having markets in Europe or somewhere else. We should look for new products, we should look to fashion our markets to suit new demands in the field in order to meet changes in the way of life of people, such as changes in their eating habits which no doubt will open up new avenues for rural industries. If we have a positive approach we can profit from it. We should not look only at subsidies to prop up industries which are ailing and which have no future. I appeal for a more positive approach to our rural industries. 
I am pleased to support the Pay-roll Tax (Territories) Assessment Amendment Bill. It was good to hear the honourable member for Canberra  (Mr Haslem)  describing the sort of city he would like Canberra to be- a modern swinging city with good quality homes, all mod cons, all the facilities we have come to associate with a modern city set in a very attractive rural environment. He was describing Canberra at it was in the years of the Labor Government. That is precisely the sort of city it was but that is not the sort of city it is today. He said he had been speaking to builders and public servants who had said that they were very happy with what is going on here. He and I must talk to different builders and different public servants because that is not the message I get. I find that people generally are very disillusioned with the Government, even people who voted for it. They have got the message that life was not meant to be easy for people in Canberra under this Government. It was not meant to be easy for the honourable member for Canberra either. I have a lot of sympathy for him. This Bill is a little bit of consolation for him. It is the only positive thing that I can recall this Government doing to aid the business people of Canberra, particularly the small business people. They have taken a terrible battering under this Government. 
I refer to such things as the very savage ceilings put on the Public Service and the cutbacks in the budget of the National Capital Development Commission. These things have reflected on business in Canberra in one way or another. The profits of business people are down and in most cases their turnovers are down. People just do not have the money to spend. There have been very drastic increases in rents for government houses. There have been increases in interest rates on existing government housing loans. All these things have eaten into the spending money of the ordinary people and this is reflected in very poor returns to many business people, particularly people with small businesses. 
While the Opposition welcomes this Bill it has great limitations. It will apply to a very small group of businesses. There are quite a few unsatisfactory features of the Bill. One thing that I would like to draw to the attention of the House is the fact that in some States there are special dispensations in the case of payroll tax to encourage particular forms of industry or to encourage decentralisation in particular areas. I believe that the Victorian Government makes such concessions but there is no such concession in Canberra. Therefore in that respect, while the legislation brings businesses into line with the States they are disadvantaged in regard to the States in some cases. If some special dispensation is given to encourage particular businesses to decentralise and go to Queanbeyan the equivalent business in the Australian Capital Territory certainly would be at a disadvantage. 
The other unsatisfactory aspect of payroll tax generally is that it tends to discriminate against labour intensive industries as against capital intensive industries and in that way there is a direct disincentive to employ people. This is so particularly in the case of marginal businesses so far as this legislation is concerned. If a businessman is in the situation that he becomes eligible for payroll tax if he employs another person there is a strong incentive for him not to do so. A businessman may even put somebody off so as to become eligible for exemption from payroll tax. Another unsatisfactory aspect of payroll tax in a national sense is that generally it tends to favour imports. It represents an added impost to the local manufacturer who is trying to compete with imported goods which may come from countries with very low labour costs. 
While we acknowledge the benefits of this Bill to the small businessman we also must be aware of its limitations. In Canberra the general payroll tax exemption is for people with payrolls of less than $48,000 a year which is less than $1,000 a week. The application of this exemption would only cover people with four or five employees. Anybody with more employees would have to pay some tax. The general exemption for payment of no payroll tax would apply only to very small businesses. Certainly it would be a great help to small retail businesses. The partial exemption on payrolls up to $120,000 a year, which is something like $2,400 a week, applies only to businesses with up to 12 or 15 employees. Above that there is no exemption. Of course, the large majority of businesses in Canberra would be in that category. While we welcome the Payroll Tax (Territories) Assessment Amendment Bill we must realise that its limitations are very grave. I could not get figures on to just how many enterprises the exemption would apply. But on those figures it would be a fairly small number and certainly it would be a small amount in terms of the total turnover of business enterprises in Canberra. 
While this Bill gives some consolation, it certainly does not offset the terrible battering which businesses in Canberra have taken at the hands of this Government. While I appreciate the efforts which have been made on paper to try to attract people to Canberra and to try to flog off leases to get people to start businesses, in the current attitude I am afraid that in cold, practical terms it will take much more than advertisements in the newspaper to get people to come to Canberra and to set up in business. The trend is, of course, to get out of Canberra because of the very serious effects which the cuts in government spending are having on Canberra. These cuts have been much more serious than they have been in capital cities and other parts of Australia. The effect of government cuts has been very serious here. The honourable member for Canberra talked about the building industry being happy. I do not know to whom he has been talking but where we had a situation with practically no unemployment, we now have something like 3000 unemployed in Canberra. This is unheard of here. Certainly that is not many compared with other States and other areas but in Canberra's unemployment figures it is a very serious situation. We have to acknowledge that. 
While the Minister has taken certain action to try to encourage people we have not really seen anything on the ground. This is in contradiction to what the honourable member for Canberra said about getting people to come in and buy business leases. Recent information I have is that the department has found the sale of business leases very sluggish indeed. The National Capital Development Commission has confirmed this in recent information given to the Joint Parliamentary Committee on the Australian Capital Territory. Obviously the honourable member for Canberra and I look at Canberra through vastly different glasses when we talk about it in the House. Things must be very different on the other side of the lake. I am afraid that the picture which the honourable member for Canberra is painting is nothing like the picture I get on my side of the lake. I really do not think there is that much difference but time will tell, of course, at future elections. 
The other unsatisfactory feature of payroll tax is that it is a State revenue and it goes into the State coffers. I am sure the honourable member for Canberra will agree with me when I say that revenue taken from the business people in Canberra through payroll tax does not go into the coffers of the Department of the Capital Territory. It goes to the Department of the Treasury and the people of Canberra never see it again. That is another aspect to the myth that we do not pay our way. Of course, people who are familiar with the figures know that we do pay our way. We more than pay our way in terms of personal tax and company tax. We do not get any direct return for it. 
Payroll tax is another example of the way in which the people of Canberra and business people pay. The revenue does not go into the accounts of the Department of the Capital Territory. It is grabbed by the Taxation Office people and it goes to the Treasury. If allowance were made for all these things it would be seen that Canberra pays its way. If we got the  per capita  subvention which the small States like Tasmania, South Australia or Western Australia get, our accounts would look much sounder. If the money from payroll tax came back into the revenue of Canberra that revenue would look much healthier. I welcome the Bill. It is a small blessing and it is something to offset the terrible battering which business in Canberra has taken. For that reason we support the Bill. 
I welcome the opportunity to say a few words on the defence White Paper. I consider this Paper to be one of the most significant documents that the Government has issued. I consider that it is significant because for the first time a government document- a defence White Paper- has come out with a very clear message to the people of Australia that we cannot continue to rely on the support envisaged in the ANZUS Treaty. It sets out m very clear terms that there are severe limits on the extent to which we can rely on that treaty. I refer to paragraph 9 on page 2 of the paper which states: 
The United States has now disengaged militarily from the mainland of South East Asia. 
It goes on to say: 
There must be large questions about the circumstances that could move the US Administration and Congress to agree to become militarily involved there again, particularly with ground forces. 
This is reinforced later in the report at paragraph 8 on page 10 where it says: 
Short of this major, and improbable, situation, one could face a range of other situations that we should expect to handle more independently. It is not our policy, nor would it be prudent, to rely upon US combat help in all circumstances. Indeed it is possible to envisage a range of situations in which the threshhold of direct US combat involvement could be quite high. 
That is very significant because for many years it has been stressed on the Australian public that the ANZUS Treaty is the linchpin of Australia's defence and many people in recent years have questioned just how strong is that linchpin. It is very good to see this paper, and I commend it for saying clearly that there are very severe limits to the effectiveness of the ANZUS Treaty. If we look historically at how we have fared under the ANZUS Treaty it is apparent that it has served the American interest much better than it has served the Australian interest. Since the last World War we have been involved in 2 land wars, in Korea and in Vietnam, both of which I would say were in the American rather than our interest, and in the interest of the now discredited domino theory. American forces have not been involved in our interest in any way. If we had wanted to take a more independent policy in West Irian or, more recently, in Timor we would have been inhibited in doing so because of the lack of American support. America just was not interested in looking after our interest in those areas. 
This is a very good statement and I commend it for saying clearly that there are severe limitations on the ANZUS Treaty. That is the positive aspect of the paper. However, it also is significant because of its negative aspects and although it points out the different situation in which we are now placed strategically and says that we have to take a more independent role in the continental defence, it does not tell us how we are to do that. It does not indicate any new analysis or reassessment of the needs to do that or tell us how we can do it. The White Paper in fact shows up glaring deficiencies in both our defence organisation and defence equipment. One of the most glaring shortcomings, and I say this in a non-partisan way because it is not something which has happened recently, is the low proportion of our defence expenditure which is devoted to equipment compared with other nations. This past year I understand it was only about 8 per cent. To the Government's credit it is increasing it to 13 per cent in 1976-77 and hopes to increase it to 22 per cent by 1981. However, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics spent 27 per cent on equipment, the United States of America 30 per cent and West Germany about 30 per cent. So we are spending considerably less than are other nations and much less than half of our defence budget goes on equipment. However, I concede that it is not a straight comparison because our manpower costs are relatively high. 
The other disturbing aspect of our equipment situation is the emphasis on replacement by more of the same thing. There is no analysis of the different options we might follow to meet the new strategic demands which the White Paper points out very well. There is no reassessment of our needs. All we see is that the usual sorts of equipment are being replaced with the same sort of equipment but in later models. This applies to tanks, destroyers and reconnaissance aircraft. We are getting more of the same and nothing new. There is no questioning of the cost effectiveness of these items of equipment. It has been said by many people that we should question the cost effectiveness, for instance, of destroyers as compared with fast patrol boats. Many people think that fast patrol boats would be much more appropriate to the new needs which have been outlined effectively in the strategic assessment. There is a grave inconsistency here because the White Paper points out the new defence environment in which we live and says that we have to be more independent, less dependent on the United States and we have to organise ourselves for more joint force operations; but there is no reassessment of how we should do this. There is provision of more of the same equipment. 
It says that we have to respond quickly but historically we have usually been concerned with supplementing other countries' forces as we did for America and as we did during the war in the islands and in Vietnam. The White Paper however indicates that we should not do that. It says that we have to stand on our own feet but there is no mention of the equipment that would enable us to do this in the most effective way. I question too the retention of the divisional organisationa divisional structure- because the strategic assessment does not indicate that we would be likely to use divisions. We would be more likely to use regimental, battalion or brigade forces. So why do we retain the divisional organization? In chapter 7 there is no discussion on the vulnerability of defence facilities. It is all right to have all these facilities but they are vulnerable and this aspect is not discussed in any way. There is no reassessment of how they can be made less vulnerable and despite the vulnerability of some of our defence being disclosed by cyclone Tracy in Darwin, we find that those facilities have been replaced by the same sort of facilities in the same situations. They are just as vulnerable now as they were when cyclone Tracy hit them. 
I am disappointed that there was no reference to military aid to Indonesia. Although I know that many people will justify this there are others who question the propriety of Australia giving approximately $30m of taxpayers' money m defence aid to Indonesia which is likely to use this aid, even in an indirect way, to subsidise acts of aggression on defenceless neighbours. Many people question this. There is no reference in the whole of the assessment to Timor. It does not get a mention. Vietnam does not get a mention although a few years ago the whole thing was about Vietnam. It was the great threat to Australia under the domino theory. Now the wheel has turned and we do not get a word about Vietnam. There is a chapter on what the objectives should be in relation to defence capability but there is no assurance that the plans outlined in the White Paper go any way towards achieving those objectives. The White Paper poses the problems but does not give the answers. 
I want now to mention very briefly the inadequacy of any mention of political rights in the conditions of service. I know that the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  is endeavouring to correct this deficiency and I hope he persists with it. Other Ministers have tried to correct it but for some reason have not succeeded. I know that there is considerable opposition, particularly in the bureaucracy, to liberalising the political rights of servicemen, but now that they have been liberalised for public servants they should be liberalised to the same degree for servicemen. 
What we should be really concerned about in this paper is that there is no overall strategy set out for our continental defence. There is no indication of how we are planning to handle this continental defence and to meet contingencies. Perhaps the public should not know, but when people in the Services, including high ranking officers, do not know what the overall strategy is or what the contingencies are we should be concerned. There is a lack of clear direction and purpose in our defence planning. That is a serious deficiency and I hope the Minister will say something about it. There is no existing command control organisation in the Australian defence organisation. There is no Australian defence command. All we know is that there is a CommanderinChief who lives at Yarralumla. If there were a war tomorrow there is no on-going organised command which could take over. Certainly we have a Chief of the General Staff and heads of the various armed forces, but the process of setting up a command organisation would have to start from scratch. In other countries these are permanent establishments. The command organisation is there ready to be put into operation at a moment's notice. We have no such organisation. 
Debate interrupted. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice: 
1 ) Do figures released by the Australian Bureau of Statistics show that foreign control of Australian manufacturing industry increased from 28.7 per cent in 1966-67 to 34.3 per cent in 1 972-73, an increase of almost 6 per cent in 6 years. 
If so, has this increase continued during the subsequent period to 1976. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
How many people were suffering from diabetes in each State and Territory during each of the years 1970 to 1976 inclusive. 
What percentage of the population do these figures represent 
What facilities has his Department made available for the treatment of diabetes in Australia. 
Is diabetes on the increase in Australia. 
What overseas research into diabetes, both government and private, is being monitored in Australia. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I support this legislation, basically because it embodies the objectives that the Labor Party set out to achieve in its short term of office. Contrary to what the honourable member for Canberra  (Mr Haslem)  said, the passage of the Labor Party's legislation on this subject was not stopped by the events of 11 November or 13 December. It was the extended period of obstruction and frustration which went on for many, many months before the events of 11 November which stopped our legislation. Our Bill on this subject was just one of the victims of that period of intense frustration suffered by the Labor Government. It is only just that this legislation should be made retrospective to 1973. That is the least that this Government could do. 
Generally, we applaud the Bill. We welcome it. It is pleasing to see that all long service leave conditions wilt now come under the one Act. People who are permanent, temporary, parttime or part-time temporary employees will all be covered. Many people in Canberra have been employed on a part-time basis for many years. Among the disadvantages of being a part time and not a full time employee is the lack of reward for service and lack of financial security which are embodied in many ways in long service leave conditions. We welcome these provisions on those grounds. There are many other aspects of the legislation which we applaud. It is good to see the removal of the limit on long service leave to 12 months. Again, this provision was a disincentive for people to serve for long periods in the Public Service. 
Another heartening provision is the portability of long service leave entitlements being extended to people who enter the Commonwealth Public Service from local government. Most people will agree that the 2 levels of government- federal and local- will improve if there is a greater interchange of personnel between those and other levels of government. Lack of portability of long service leave entitlements was one disincentive. We applaud this provision. We hope that it will result in a greater interchange of people among the different levels of government. 
However, there are a couple of aspects of the Bill about which we are not happy. I will mention these briefly. This Bill is less generous than the former Labor Government's legislation in its proposed rate of accrual of long service leave after 10 years. The honourable member for Canberra referred to this. The difference is quite substantial. Under the Labor Party's legislation, after 10 years' service 5 months' leave was accumulated for that 10 years ' service. This legislation provides 3 months' leave for 10 years' service. In adopting this standard, the Government has failed to acknowledge the need for and the justice of a higher rate of accrual for people as they become more senior in their service and of the greater need for them to take longer periods of long service leave. 
I believe that the attitude of the Labor Party on this aspect was most progressive; the passage of such a provision would have been most welcome. Had it been introduced it would have provided an added incentive to the Public Service and would have resulted in better service in the Public Service. After all, this provision is a far cry from the ideas which are current in some of the more progressive countries of the world where some form of sabbatical leave is being considered. That is the direction in which we should be looking. Certainly, in view of what is happening under the present Government, such an attitude would be quite inappropriate. Instead of looking backwards as this Government is doing, we should be looking forward to the day when it will be practical to talk about sabbatical leave in the Public Service. I hope that at some future time this will become a subject for serious discussion. The idea of the present Government is not to provide incentives and, in fact, to provide disincentives for people to serve in the Public Service. 
The other important aspect of the scheme which, I think, can very justly be criticised is that relating to the invalidity provisions. One category of people will be worse off under the provisions of this legislation. While I recognise generally the progressive aspects of this legislation, it is unfortunate that any provision should mean that some people will be worse off. This is the position in relation to the furlough provision which allows  pro rata  three-tenths of a month for any year or part of a year whereas, under the present provisions, there is a minimum furlough allowance of 2 months for periods from 4 years to 8 years. In other words, anybody with 4 years' service who was invalided out of the Public Service received a minimum of 2 months' furlough. Under the proposed three-tenths of a month  pro rata  provision in this legislation, an employee would need to serve 7 years before, on invalidity, that employee was entitled to 2 months' furlough. 
As I said, at present furlough of 2 months is available after 4 years' service. People who fall into that category and who are invalided out of the Public Service are certainly worse off under this legislation. That fact cannot be denied. Under the existing legislation, invalidity after 7 years' service would attract a furlough entitlement of 2.1 months. Invalidity occurring between 4 years and 7 years service under this legislation would result in the public servant being definitely worse off. Those 2 provisions in relation to furlough invalidity payments and the lower accrual rate mean that this legislation is certainly inferior to the Labor Party's legislation. 
In his second reading speech, the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Staley)  said 
The remaining changes, on the other hand, are generally supported by practices elsewhere. 
This claim is quite misleading, as the honourable member for Gellibrand has pointed out. In fact, 3 States have legislation which is better than what this legislation proposes. In New South Wales entitlements after service of 20 years, 30 years, 40 years and 50 years are relatively better than what this legislation proposes. Long service entitlements in Western Australia are superior for service of 15 years, 30 years, 40 years and 50 years. The long service leave provisions in Queensland are better right across the board. We often say nasty things about Queensland, but it has much more progressive long service leave provisions than are available in Canberra. Public servants in Queensland are approximately 10 per cent better off in the accrual rate of long service leave right across the board. 
So, in Queensland, New South Wales and Western Australia, long service leave conditions are superior to the provisions contained in this legislation. The Commonwealth provisions will be basically the same as those applying in South Australia, Tasmania and Victoria. The Commonwealth's provisions are not better than those of any State in the Commonwealth. There is no suggestion that, through this legislation, the Commonwealth is to be the pacesetter in respect of long service leave conditions. The provisions in this legislation are very mediocre. Generally, when a new scheme is introduced, it represents an improvement on existing schemes. That is not so in this case. The new scheme will be worse than those in 3 States and the equal of the schemes in the other 3 States. It is not better than the scheme in any State. No aspect of it represents pacesetting. 
The complexity of Australian Government operations today- particularly when we consider the type of government that we have now at the federal level- demands an extremely competent Public Service. We should provide conditions which will attract the very best people in the land to the Commonwealth Public Service. I do not think we should be satisfied to have conditions which are second-best, third-best or the equal of others. I think there is a much more demanding job to be done and we should be, if anything, a little bit better than the States. We should be the pacesetters. I do not think we should apologise for being pacesetters because, as I have said, government today demands the very best brains and the best trained people we can attract in the community. We will certainly not attract those people by offering long service leave conditions that do not compare favourably with those of other States. 
The other aspect, of course, which we will have to consider later and which also indicates the lack of the Government's awareness of the need for a very high standard of Public Service is the idea that has been put up in other legislation for management initiated retirement. What a great incentive that is going to be to the Aus.tralian Public Service! It is just another indication of the lack of imagination and the lack of appreciation of the need to attract the very best people to the Service by the present Government. It is to be deplored. Of course, that is the subject of other legislation which we will have the opportunity to discuss later. Generally we applaud the legislation now under consideration. It is progressive in some respects. It is just bringing us up to date with some of the States. It leaves us behind 3 States. It is not as good as the former Labor Government's proposal in respect of the accrual rate, and it certainly disadvantages certain people in respect of provisions relating to furlough. 
It was very good to hear my colleague the honourable member for Canberra admit that people in Canberra had in fact been having a tough time. They have been having a very tough time since 1 3 December last year. This, of course, will not make it any easier when they compare their situation with that of people in other areas. I do not want to go through the reason why they are going through a tough time because that is well known to everyone. When my colleague admits it there is no need for me to press the point. 
I think it is quite remarkable that the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck),  who is supposed to be so well acquainted with the apple industry, had very little to say about the actual Australian Apple and Pear Corporation Amendment Bill. He did not offer any condemnation or criticism of it. He said a great deal about the Australian Apple and Pear Corporation, about who was on it, what they were going to do and how they were appointed and not elected. This had nothing to do with the Bill. Yet there are some very grave weaknesses in the Bill of which he should be aware in the interests of producers. Apparently he is not aware of them at all. I generally support this Bill because it has the same broad objectives as the intended legislation of the previous Government. Unfortunately the objectives will be much more difficult to achieve because of the change in the nature of the arrangements for collecting the levy. This is what the honourable member for Franklin should be concerned about. 
When the Apple and Pear Levy Collection Bill was originally suggested I understand the idea was that the levy would be collected on a per acre or per hectare basis which, of course, is the most rational way to do it. It is no problem to go to an orchard and to find out how many hectares or acres of bearing trees there are. Once you have that figure you know what the levy will be. It will be a regular amount year in and year out. Now the levy will be based not on the area but on the product. This opens up a great Pandora's Box of how the levy can be collected on fruit which is sold in a variety of ways all over the country. This proposed method will be all right for the apples that are packed in boxes and sent through an agent. Providing the agents are honest, and I think most of them are, they can collect the levy. What happens to all the thousands of cases of apples that are sold in bulk? The equivalent of hundreds of thousands of cases of apples are brought into Canberra every year from Batlow in bulk bins and sold directly to the retail markets. I would like the Minister to tell us how the levy will be collected from those people. An army of inspectors would be needed. A whole range of options is opened up for evasion ofthe levy. All this could have been overcome if the Government had stuck to the original concept of imposing the levy on a hectare or acre basis. 
The Government should have learned something from the egg industry. Tremendous problems were experienced in trying to collect a levy on the eggs. The method was changed and the levy was based on the hens. Even though hens have feathers and can fly, it was much easier to keep track of the hens than it was of the eggs. This should have been a lesson to the apple and pear industry. It is not that the industry did not know. My information is that 75 per cent of the growers favoured a hectare or acre basis for imposing the levy. Why did the other 25 per cent of growers not favour that measure? My information is that the growers adopted this method of collecting levies based on the product because of a very rash and irresponsible promise that was made by a member of the present Government during the last election. I understand that the promise was made to Queensland producers to try to get a few more votes. This very unsatisfactory method of collection has now been imposed on the industry because of an irresponsible election promise. This is typical, of course, of the way in which the Government operates in terms of responsibility towards primary industries. I think the honourable member for Franklin should be concerned about this. 
I understand that Tasmanian growers wanted the levy imposed on a hectare basis and not on a box basis as the box basis opens up a whole range of avenues for evasion. For instance how will the levy be collected from people who sell their fruit at the orchard? I understand there is an exemption for the first 500 boxes, but how will it be known how many boxes are sold? There is no way of checking it. There is no way of checking out the huge quantities that are sold in bulk. The levy will be so much a box irrespective of whether it is a packed case of fruit or a loose case of fruit. Anybody in the industry would know that there is something like a 20 per cent differential between a packed case and a loose case. Here again the people who market their fruit loose in boxes will in fact be paying more by way of levy than those who pack their fruit. 
There is also the question of evasion through agents; some people try anything. Here again it will be very costly in resources on the government departments concerned to police this process of collection. This would have been avoided if the levy had been based on the acreage. Some people suggested that the levy should be based on the trees but this would not be satisfactory because the method of cultivation varies so much. Some areas have only 80 trees or 90 trees to the acre while others in which the hedge row method is used might have 200 trees to the acre. There is no question that the proper way would have been to impose the levy on a hectare or acre basis. I think the Minister owes some explanation to the House why that method was not adopted when my information is that that was the desire ofthe majority of the growers. 
The other objection to this method of collecting the levy is that it makes it very difficult for the Apple and Pear Corporation to budget when it does not know what its income will be. It is the nature of the beast with the apple and pear industry that one tends to get an off-year and an on-year. One gets a tremendous crop one year and then a very light crop the next year. The Corporation will not know how much money it will get. How can it do a satisfactory budgeting job under these conditions? This problem would have been avoided if the levy had been imposed on a hectare or acre basis. The Corporation would then have known how much revenue it would get. The amount involved would have been lesser because everybody would have been paying something. There would not have been a large section of the produce in respect of which some method of evasion was practiced and on which the levy was not paid at all. 
There are also anomalies in the way the payment is arranged. The usual arrangement is that the grower or the person who sells the fruit pays monthly. For some reason- I do not know whyone particular section of sellers, those who sell direct to retailers or to minor retailers or to roadside stalls, do not have to pay by the month at all. They get 12 months in which to pay. Why the discrimination in favour of this group? It is reducing its expenses anyway by cutting out the middle man and selling produce direct to the public. These people then get a further discrimination in their favour by having 12 months to pay their levy. Everybody else gets only one month Perhaps this was an election promise also. I did not hear about that promise but it is quite likely that it was made. 
The important aspect, of course, as far as the industry is concerned, is how the money will be applied when the levy is collected. If the levies are collected, after offsetting the costs of collectionthe Bill does not say who will bear the cost of the collection of the levy- it is very important to know how the money will be applied. Will the 
Apple and Pear Corporation use the money to promote a very doubtful export trade or will it apply the money to promote the domestic market? It is not clear on this point. I hope that the Corporation has enough judgment to realise that there is some question about promoting the export market. The Corporation may be much better advised to spend money on the domestic market. It has done this in the past to some extent by promotion. I hope that it will continue to pursue that avenue. Of course, it has allocated money to research, particularly research into methods of producing new fruit products which may meet a new market. I must also commend the Apple and Pear Corporation for the fact that it has made grants already to the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation to carry out research into some aspects of fruit processing. Normally, of course, such research is the responsibility of the State departments of agriculture. The additional funds which may come from the Apple and Pear Corporation will be a valuable supplement to this source of research. Of course, research over the years has led to more efficient methods of production in many areas. New South Wales at least is now planted to hedgerow production which is much more efficient and labour-saving and has allowed certain sectors of the industry to survive. From what I know of the Apple and Pear Corporation it is a responsible body. I am confident that it will apply the funds in the most effective way. 
I want to refer briefly to the effect of devaluation. The honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck)  did not mention this. Devaluation, of course, is immediately of great benefit to the apple and pear industry. I understand that the South-East-Asian markets, particularly, were very tight. Devaluation will allow the growers to stay in that market and possibly expand it. But I think that the other side of the penny has to be acknowledged: Devaluation makes it much more difficult for those same countries to sell their products in Australia. They have to protect their own balance of payments and if the import of more Austraiian apples creates more difficulties for them then they, in response, will put up import barriers or taxes to protect their own industry in some way. I think that the fruitgrowers are generally well informed people who are aware of the disadvantages and the pitfalls of devaluation as well as the immediate benefits that they may derive. Of course, they are very much aware that they are dependent on imports which will cost more, particularly the imports of chemicals for spraying and some parts of orchard machinery such as harvesting machinery, ploughing machinery- much of which is made in Australia but some of which is imported- and particularly pump equipment which is often imported. Whilst devaluation will ~~ be of some benefit, I do not think anyone in the industry should be carried away and believe that it is the answer to their problems. 
Generally, I think this is a commendable piece of legislation which, because of the unfortunate and irresponsible promise made during an election campaign, will now be much more costly and difficult to administer because of the abandonment of the original idea of the levy being on an acreage or hectare basis. I want to refer now to another particular aspect of the Bill. The honourable member for Franklin referred to the superior quality of Tasmanian apples. I thought that he threatened the New South Wales growers by saying that if the situation became too tough the Tasmanian applegrowers would flood the market. I want to destroy a myth which seems to have developed. Many honourable members in this House have spoken about the apple industry and seem to believe that Tasmania is the biggest producer of apples in Australia. I do not wish to destroy a great illusion in the mind of the honourable member for Franklin but the House should be aware that in 1975, New South Wales was the largest producer of apples in Australia The census figures indicate that 5.622 million bushels came from New South Wales and 4.963 million bushels from Tasmania. So let us settle that myth once and for all: New South Wales is the largest producer of apples in Australia, not Tasmania. The great difference, of course, is that New South Wales growers are able to entice the people of New South Wales and the rest of Australia to eat their apples and they do not have to export many. The Tasmanians, for some reason or other, are unable to do this and have to send their apples all around the world. So much for the superior quality of the Tasmanian apples. 
We have often had Tasmanian apples in New South Wales in the past. The New South Wales apple industry is in much better shape than the Tasmanian industry, so that speaks for itself. I have eaten plenty of apples from both places and there is no question about the best of quality although, certainly, the Tasmanian apples keep much better. This has to be so, of course, otherwise they would not have an export market. But I do not think there is any real worry in New South Wales about the superior quality of the Tasmanian apples. 
 I want to make one very small contribution to this debate. I was not a member of the Joint Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System but I have no doubt that the matters it considered would have included the provision of more resources for this Parliament to enable it to function more efficiently. I want to point out how dependent the functioning of the Parliament is on the Public Service and how the Government is asking the Public Service to do an impossible task by imposing staff ceilings and making savage cuts in funds for the Public Service when it has all this extra work to do. Everyone agrees that the function of Government is now much more complex than it has ever been and adequate resources are needed for it to function. It it a great contradiction in the policy of this Government that it expects those functions to be carried out by a reduced Public Service operating with bans on overtime and those sorts of things which make it so much more difficult. The Public Service is given an impossible task. 
Last night a Bill was introduced into this House for a very mediocre form of long service leave. There is another one coming up in the next session relating to management initiated retirements. These moves, of course, are all disincentives to the Public Service. It is time that the Government got off the back of the Public Service and gave it an opportunity to serve this Parliament in an efficient way so that the business of the Parliament can be handled more quickly. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I remind the House that today is the anniversary of the brutal invasion of East Timor by the forces of Indonesia. It is now 12 months since that invasion. At least 60 000 innocent Timorese people have been killed. This information comes from Indonesian sources. The latest information we have from church sources in Indonesia is that the figure may be as high as 100 000 casualties. Recently a report was tabled in this House concerning casualties in Lebanon. They were described as horrific. I tell the House that the number of casualties in Timor is at least five or six times as great as the number in Lebanon. So how can we describe the Timorese situation? Let us look at the present position in East Timor, 12 months after the invasion. Our latest information, again from Indonesian sources, is that the Indonesians control only 20 per cent of the area of East Timor. They have established a legacy of hatred between the people of Timor and the Indonesian people. The people of Timor continue to suffer great hardships and privation. They have always had a high infant mortality rate, of around 50 per cent. Now that people are isolated in the hinterland the rate would be much greater. They have extremely poor health and nutrition. They receive no humanitarian aid from any source. 
Twelve months after the expedition of aggression which set out to create stability in East Timor, we find an area of instability which is likely to continue indefinitely. What has been the role of the Australian Government and the Australian people? I suggest that it has been one of continuing appeasement of the Indonesian aggression. The situation has now been reached where Indonesia is dictating the policy of the Australian Government. I support that statement with 3 examples-the recent refusal of a visa to enter Austrafia for  Mr Lobato,  the cutting off of Telecom messages from Timor and the abstention from the vote criticising Indonesia 's action. 
Fretilin heroism and the heroism of the Timorese people, their courage and the fine example of their leaders in defying 30 000 Indonesian regular soldiers has won the admiration of liberation movements throughout the world. The dedication of the Fretilin leaders outside Timor has also ensured that the issue has been kept alive in the United Nations and in other world forums, despite the efforts of Indonesia to keep the truth from the world. Those efforts included the brutal murder of Australian journalists. The Indonesian Government stands condemned for its brutal aggression against a small and virtually unarmed neighbour. It stands condemned for its blatant disregard for the UN resolution to withdraw and to allow the Timorese people the fundamental right of self-determination. It stands condemned for its failure to allow the independent International Red Cross access to that country. We, as Australians, stand condemned for deserting our loyal wartime comrades in their hour of need, for our abject appeasement of Indonesian attacks and for our failure to stand up for the right of the Timorese people to an act of self-determination. So today, in remembering the brutal invasion of Timor by Indonesia, we should also remember it as a day of national shame when the Australian Government sold out its friends in Timor and turned its back on one of the most brutal acts of aggression in modern history. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1) Is the Government considering the inauguration of an express train service between Canberra and Sydney which will operate each morning from Canberra at 7 a.m. 
Has Ansett Transport Industries, which operates a bus service to Sydney each morning, made representations to the Government to prevent the introduction of such a service. 
Is it proposed to reintroduce the direct train service between Canberra and Melbourne which was dropped in 1974 during a fuel shortage. 
Is it proposed to revive the joint passenger car project for use on Commonwealth and State Railways. 
Have any States approached the Commonwealth with a view to acquisition of their country railway operations by the Commonwealth. 
Do passengers from Canberra, joining the  Southern Aurora  at Goulburn, and travelling to Melbourne also have to pay the full fare from Sydney to Melbourne as well as the Canberra to Goulburn fare. 
Does the Australian National Railways Commission propose to accept credit cards as does the Victorian State Railways. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
Has a new Weights and Measures Ordinance been under consideration since 1967. 
If so, when will the new Ordinance by ready. 
Is there only one superintendent and one inspector to police the existing Weights and Measures Ordinance, the same number as 10 years ago, despite an increase in population since then. 
Can he say whether the average world figure for weights and measures inspectors is one per 45 000 population. 
When will additional inspectors be appointed for the A.C.T. 
Has a new Weights and Measures Laboratory incorporating special test areas for tankers, flow metres and LPG systems been recommended. 
If so, when will this new laboratory be in operation. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
1 ) Does his Department propose to cut trained teaching staff at the Civic and Manuka occasional day care centres by 50 percent. 
If so, is this cut in the best interests of A.C.T. children. 
-On behalf of the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory I bring up the Committee's report entitled  Canberra city wastes- A long-term strategy for collection and disposal  Due to the limited number available copies of the report have been placed in the Parliamentary Library and the Bills and Papers Office of the House of Representatives. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I seek leave of the House to make a statement in connection with the report. 
I support the States Grants (Rural Adjustment) Bill and the amendment moved by my colleague the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating).  There is no question that bringing these support schemes together under one set of guidelines makes them much easier to administer for the various State authorities which are charged with the administrative responsibility. It is a very difficult task to administer a whole range of schemes all of which have different guidelines. I have no doubt that bringing the schemes together will make their administrative task, which is a very difficult one, much easier. This should also lead to a much more equitable distribution of funds under the various schemes and some co-ordination of policy. 
Of course the task of co-ordination and integration should have been carried out by the establishment of a national reconstruction board which is the subject of one of our amendments. This should have been the first thing to be done, but the Government has put the cart before the horse and has failed to carry out that very important recommendation of the Industries Assistance Commission. I will come back and say more on that later. It is sufficient to say that bringing the schemes together is a good principle. Whether debt reconstruction, consolidation or build-up of farms or farm development is involved, the co-ordination should lead to a much easier program to administer. 
Probably the most commendable aspect of the scheme is the question of household support. We applaud this aspect of the legislation. It represents, as the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  said, an attack on a major area of social injustice which was brought out in the Henderson report on farm poverty. There is an inherent difficulty. There is an assumption- I believe the honourable member for Murray made this assumption- that the support is there for people to make up their minds whether or not they want to get out of agriculture. I just make a very pertinent point that that is not always an option. It may have been an option in the past. I know that in this region people were able to move into a rapidly expanding area like Canberra and get a job in private enterprise or the Public Service. In country towns the people involved could find employment or move to a city and get a job in industry. But the ball game has changed. That is not an option for many people now. I suggest that because an assessment has been made that somebody should get off a farm when he does not wish to do so does not mean that the person involved can get off the farm. No category in this legislation has been provided to handle that sort of situation. It may not be necessary at the moment; I just do not know. But I suggest that if the country sinks into a deeper recession or if the world economic position gets worse- many people think that it will next yearthis aspect should be monitored very closely and consideration should be given to looking at this particular category of people who, it has been assessed, have no future on the land but who cannot get off the land. Those honourable members who remember the last depression will know that people who were unemployed and living on farms were often in a better position to sustain themselves than people who were unemployed and living in cities. There is always an element of self-support on a farm. One can always kill a sheep, milk the cow and live on some fruit and vegetables that one may be producing. 
It may be a proposition to consider some partial support option for people in that situation rather than to push them off the farm into a total dependency on unemployment relief. I think that is something the Government should monitor very closely and if it becomes necessary, this legislation will need to be altered because it does not really provide for that category at the moment. For all of these reconstruction proposals the basic criterion, of course, is that funds are not available from private sources. These are usually the private banks. I want to say something about the role of the private banks in these reconstruction schemes because I think we need to be very careful that these reconstruction schemes are not used by private banks in order to unload some of their weaker clients. I have had some experience with this in the past and I know that it has happened in the past. A client goes along to his bank and wants some more money. The bank says: Look, we are sorry. We cannot help you but we think you may do better under some rural reconstruction scheme or some debt adjustment scheme'. The private bank then could be seen in the role of a fair weather friend. It is happy to look after its clients while they are making money but if they run into a bad patch, the banks want to unload them onto somebody else. I think we need to be very careful that we do not fall into this trap so that this scheme is provided just as a support for private banks. 
Of course, when debt adjustment and reconstruction is undertaken we find that this gets people on to their feet and they are then handed back to the private bank. This is a very handy arrangement for the private banks and I have no doubt that they applaud it very much. But I think it can be fairly said that in a way the private banks, or some of them, have let the rural community down by not providing adequate counselling and advisory services. If they did provide these services, some of the people who have become candidates for debt adjustment and rural reconstruction might not have got into that situation. Some banks, of course, do provide these services. The Rural Bank of New South Wales has district valuers who can advise people not only on technical matters but also on financial matters and counsel them on business matters. The Commonwealth Development Bank also has officers in this category. They do not have to be attached to every bank; they could cover a district which might service 20 or 30 banks. But the private banks do not provide this service. The semi-government banks- the Rural Bank and the Commonwealth Bank- can function and make a profit. They can provide these services and still make a profit and I think that the private banks should be able to do this, too. I suggest that if they did provide a more adequate technical and financial service they might be able to keep some of their clients out of the rural reconstruction process. Often the loans that a private bank manager makes are made on an  ad hoc  basis. They are made in the office. Sometimes the bank manager does not even look at the property and if he did he would not know whether it was good or bad. They make a loan with such a wide safety margin that they cannot go wrong. They obtain a rule-of-thumb valuation of the assets and then lend SO per cent of the value. So they are sitting pretty. I suggest that the private banks have a responsibility, not just to sit in an office and lend money or say: 'We cannot lend it', but to give a back-up service to their clients out in the field. They make enough profit out of this country to be able to do that without suffering any great hardship. If some banks can do it, all should be able to do it. 
I want to refer briefly to the amendment. I think that the suggestion that the fishing industry should be brought into this debt reconstruction program is an excellent idea. No other honourable member has commented on this suggestion and said why it cannot be done. The fishing industry is quite an extensive industry. It has approximately 16 000 employees and is worth $100m, yet it does not fit into any of these categories. It does not fit into the primary reconstruction category and it is certainly not a manufacturing industry. I admit that there are all sorts of difficulties with the fishing industry. It is not possible to see what the harvest will be and it is very difficult to forecast what the harvest will be. On the other hand, it is not subject to many of the hazards of rural industries. It is not affected by droughts or bushfires or grasshoppers or anything of that nature. I think we should look at the fishing industry. 
It is interesting to note that Australia imports very large quantities of fish, although our own industry is worth $100m. Figures provided by the Australian Bureau of Statistics for 1973-74 show that Australia imported almost $68m worth of edible fish and another $3m worth of inedible fish products, such as fish meal. These imports totalled $71m. If we add the effect of the devaluation adjustment to that amount, we are importing approximately $80m worth of fish products. So there is a great potential for expansion in the fishing industry to compete with the imports, particularly now that devaluation will increase the price of the imports. It is quite a logical suggestion that the fishing industry should be included in this adjustment program. 
The amendment to be moved in the Committee stage, which is the most important one, is to the effect that a National Rural Adjustment Board should be established. I hasten to assure the honourable member for Murray that he quite misinterpreted what the Opposition has said about this amendment. This body would not take over the job of the States. I would never suggest that. The States are the appropriate bodies to administer these schemes. They have the expertise and they are closest to their clients. They have had a lot of experience in this area. I would not suggest for a minute that there should be any interference with their administration of the scheme but I do suggest that there is an urgent need for a general co-ordination of policy so that we do not have the crazy situation in which one State is trying to move people out of an industry and, at the same time, another State is trying to build up people in the industry. Honourable members will know that this has happened in the past, particularly in regard to the dairying industry. The Opposition is saying that the national body should be established to co-ordinate policy and to ensure that there is an equitable distribution and use of resources between the States and that they are broadly using the same sort of guidelines which will produce a situation which is in the national interest so that we do not have a situation in which we are readjusting people into producing goods which are already oversupplied. 
A national rural adjustment board would have the task of monitoring the schemes, as they are being administered. It would also have the task of conducting research into the effectiveness of the various schemes and generally co-ordinating the overall task. As I said before, the State authorities are much closer to the problem and I would like to pay a tribute to the various State authorities which administer the rural readjustment programs. They have a very difficult task, sometimes a very painful task, in debt adjustment and in trying to reconstruct and sort out people's problems. I would not want that function to be interfered with in any way. It is certainly not a proposal which the Opposition would put forward. The Opposition says that this should be a very small policy co-ordinating body on which some States, at least, are represented on a rotating basis and that it should monitor results, ensure that distribution is equitable and conduct research into the effectiveness of the measures being adopted. I think the rural reconstruction adjustment board is a most important recommendation, the most important recommendation made by the Industries Assistance Commission. If the Government had been honest about trying to do a good job in this area it would have set up this body first and then amalgamated the various schemes under this legislation which it has now brought forward. I should like to know what the attitude of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  is on this question. Will he continue to ignore one of the main recommendations of the IAC report? I support the Bill. I repeat that the household support scheme should be watched very closely. People who want to get off farms but who cannot do so should be catered for in the Bill. They are not catered for at this stage. I expect that if there is not a need for this provision now, there will be one in the future. Apart from that point, we support the Bill. We commend the progress that has been made in this direction and in particular the household support scheme. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has the Melba Health Centre only 3 doctors at present, when the complement in January 1 976 was 6. 
Is it a fact that (a) this Centre serves a population of over 17 000, (b) people from the area who have been on the books of the Centre since its inception are sometimes unable to be treated because of the workload, and are referred to the Canberra Hospital, 18 kilometres away, or to private practitioners, (c) no new health centre will be completed in this area until 1978, by which time the population in the area is expected to be in excess of 25 000 and (d) the pharmacy at the Centre is unable to play its full role due to the pressure of work and is unable to keep personal records of patients, as they have no clerical assistance. 
Is it also a fact that when a private pharmacy opened in Kambah the pharmacy at the Kambah Village Health Centre was closed; if so, as there is now a private pharmacy at Charnwood is it the intention of the Health Commission to close the Melba Health Centre pharmacy. 
Is it also a fact that salaries of medical practitioners have not been updated during 1976, other than through indexation, whilst private practitioners have received substantial increases in fees. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Will he make available to the Parliament a report on vinyl chloride monomer levels in vegetable oils that was referred to in his joint press release with the Minister for Science on 21 October 1976. 
-Firstly, I must assure the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mi  Connolly) that, contrary to his accusations concerning the attitude of the Opposition towards public servants, I have no innate hostility towards the Public Service as such. I can assure the honourable member that as a former short-term public servant I have a very high regard for the integrity and ability of public servants. I have defended their integrity, their ability and their working conditions on many occasions in this House. I share the concern of the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  that so few people are interested in this Bill, because it involves some very important principles; but I must say that I was concerned at his suggestion that perhaps we should consider not only bringing outsiders into the Public Service as permanent heads of departments but also bringing them in as Ministers. We all should be very much aware that it was precisely because such a situation existed in the American political system that Watergate was allowed to develop. It shook the whole foundation of the American nation. People who were not responsible, were not elected and were not subject to recall by the people were given power and they abused that power tremendously. The Watergate scandal shook the whole nation and it is still recovering from it. So I do not think that anybody should seriously consider the proposition that people who are not elected and who are not subject to recall should be given great powers in government. 
I oppose this Bill very strongly. My basic objection to it is not just at the political level and does not concern just the privileges or rights of public servants. It is that this Bill strikes at a basic democratic aspect of our government and our Parliament in the handing over of power from the Parliament to public servants- at the handing over of power from elected people, people who are subject to recall, to people who are appointed. I know that elected people- Ministers in governments- cannot take responsibility for every decision that is made right down the line. Responsibility has to be delegated to public servants. This is a long established principle. But that does not mean that we should give responsibility to public servants virtually to appoint permanent heads of departments. I believe that that is what this BUI does. It seriously erodes the power and responsiblity of the Parliament, the Executive and the Government to appoint permanent heads by putting tremendous power in the hands of the  Chairman  of the Public Service Board. I think this is the basic principle about which we should be concerned. 
We have to understand that the Bill has been prepared by public servants and it is natural that they will look after their own interests when drafting Bills. I do not doubt that that is a responsible attitude for them to take. But, while protecting their own interests, I do not think that there was any need for public servants to be given the power virtually to control the appointment of permanent heads. Their security of tenure can be protected- I think it is reasonably well protected- without giving them that extra power. I think they have enough control over the system now- too much in some ways. This power would really add to their control of the system and would allow them to manipulate it. They could do that in the following ways: Firstly, as I said, they could do it by means of the tremendous powers that would be vested in the  Chairman  of the Public Service Board. He would select the committee that would recommend permanent head appointments. Membership of that committee would be confined to permanent heads of departments. So a committee of permanent heads would recommend who should fill permanent head positions. The  Chairman  of the Public Service Board would control the short list of established candidates. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  confirmed in his second reading speech that a Prime Minister could suggest that other people be placed on the list, but he conceded that the  Chairman  of the Public Service Board would have the discretion to refuse to put those people on the list. He would have the right to veto the inclusion in that list of the nominations of the Prime Minister or the Government. I do not think that this is advisable. I think that it would create a very dangerous precedent. The  Chairman  of the Public Service Board would have great power over the established permanent heads and, as I said, he would virtually have power to veto the Prime Minister's proposals. I have no objection to permanent heads feeling secure in office. I think that it is a fundamental principle in the Public Service that they should feel secure in office. This can be done. This is a matter altogether different from that which gives the committee control over the appointment of permanent heads. 
I believe that under the guise of opening up the possibilities of people from outside the Public Service being appointed as permanent heads, this Bill in fact makes it very unlikely that any outstanding candidates from outside the Public Service will in fact even consider being attracted into the Service. The Prime Minister went on to say in his second reading speech that, notwithstanding the list that the committee prepares, a Prime Minister can appoint somebody over the head of the Public Service Board. The catch is, of course, that the conditions applying to such an appointment are so bad that no serious candidate would really have a second look. He would have no security of tenure at all. On the change of government he could be sacked. At the most he would have a 5-year term. I do not think this proposal is a reality. In fact the power still lies with the  Chairman  of the Public Service Board and the control he has over that committee. Not only does he have a substantive vote on the committee but also he has a casting vote which really strengthens his power. 
The way the candidates are to be drawn under this Bill is quite confusing. They can come from 3 sources. Firstly, they can come from the initial list of candidates prepared by the  Chairman  and his committee. If that is not satisfactory the position can be advertised and other names added to the list. Of course the Prime Minister can add further names to the list subject to the discretion of the  Chairman.  This is a quite ridiculous situation. I think a much cleaner approach to this question would have been achieved if the recommendation of the Coombs report had been followed. The Coombs report put up the proposition that there should be just the one list and that that list should include any nominees of the Government, the relevant Minister or the Prime Minister. This would have been a much cleaner approach and it would have put everybody on a much better basis. With the present suggestion an outsider has very little chance and very little going for him. The terms and conditions are just not attractive. The Coombs report said that there should be only one list. 

 Dr Coombs also made the important suggestion, which is at variance with this Bill, that the committee should be appointed by the Government and not by the  Chairman  of the Public Service Board. This would give a much better balance to the committee and would reflect the views of the Government to some extent. The suggestion was made that permanent heads should be statutory officers who would serve a fixed contract for a government and that when that contract comes to an end at the change of government, if the new government does not wish to renew the contracts, the officers would return to a pool and be guaranteed other positions. This would be a much cleaner approach and people would know where they stood. At the same time it would allow for outsiders to come in on a reasonable basis and not be at a disadvantage as they are under the provisions of this Bill. There is a guise of opening up positions to outsiders but in fact the practicalities are that the positions will be most unattractive to outsiders. This merely reinforces the mortgage that established permanent heads have on positions of permanent heads. I would be very surprised if outsiders came in in the same way as they did in the period of the Labor Government. I do not want to enter into debate whether that was good or bad, but I do not think it would happen under this new arrangement. 
I think the Coombs arrangements would have been much more desirable and much more democratic. They tended to keep the power in the hands of the Parliament- in the hands of the Government and in the hands of the elected people. The power was divided between the Prime Minister, the Cabinet and the Minister concerned. I think the Minister concerned in a particular department should play the principal role. I think this was accepted in our government. This Bill tends to take the power out of the hands of the elected Parliament and put it in the hands of public servants. The way the committee is constructed puts power in the hands of virtually a one-man band. The unknown quantity about this proposition is the effect that the other Bill proposed by the Government, the Commonwealth Employees (Redeployment and Retirement) Bill, will have on the Public Service. Here of course a grave threat is hanging over the heads of public servants because of the rather insidious proposal for management initiated retirement. 
While this Bill may protect the conditions and secure the tenure of permanent heads- there is a very small number of permanent heads in the bureaucracy- there are thousands of middle range officers who will be under threat if this other Bill is passed. I suggest that members of the House should look at this very closely. The concessions many senior public servants will be granted under this Bill could well be offset by disadvantages in the Bill concerning redeployment and retirment. I suggest that the overriding objection to this Bill is that it represents a further erosion of the control of the bureaucracy by the Parliament. I think this is a most important and fundamental aspect of the Bill. The provisions of the Bill take away some of the responsibility of elected people and give it to appointed people who are not responsible in the sense that they are not subject to recall. I think it is very important that these sorts of powers should remain very much in the hands of a government. This situation, of course, would present no problem where the basic philosophy of a government happens to coincide with the basic philosophies of senior public servants. If they are in agreement there will be no problem. But of course great problems could occur where there are different philosophies and where a reformist government has to deal possibly with conservative public servants. I recognise the other situation where sometimes very progressive permanent heads would have the problem of dealing with a very conservative government. It cuts both ways. I acknowledge this. I repeat that I think all members of this House should be very much aware that this Bill in fact represents an erosion of the power of the elected people, hands much more power than is necessary over to appointed permanent heads and gives them the opportunity of reinforcing their entrenched position within the bureaucracy. When one looks at the Bill carefully one sees that it merely strengthens their position and erodes the power of this Parliament. 
I want to speak fairly briefly about the Constitutional Alteration (Referendums) BUI which particularly concerns my constituency which encompasses the people of the Australian Capital Territory and of course the people of Jervis Bay which is a part of my electorate. The Bill also applies to the people of the Northern Territory who have never had the right to vote in referendums. I think it is very appropriate that this BUI should come forward now particularly in view of the recent High Court decision which stated in a ruling about the relationship between the number of electors and the number of seats in the House of Representatives that the people in the Territories could not be regarded as people of the Commonwealth. This is a most difficult ruling to understand but the learned gentlemen of the High Court made that ruling for the purpose of arriving at the number of seats for each State in the House of Representatives. The Court said that the people of Canberra, the 200 000 people here, and over 100 000 people in the Northern Territory were not people of the Commonwealth. 
This judgment highlighted a situation which was not generally understood by a lot of people in the Commonwealth at large but it was very well understood by the people in the Territories, particularly the people m Canberra, because we have always been very conscious of the fact that as far as the Constitution is concerned we are regarded as something less than full citizens. We have always had to fight very hard indeed for adequate representation in this Parliament and it was not until a Labor government came to office that we did get adequate representation and the principles covering representation were conceded. We have never had the right to express our point of view in the 30-odd referenda which have been presented to the other people- the real people of Australia- since Federation. We have never had that privilege. While the number of people in the Territories was insignificant the voices of their representatives could be ignored with political immunity but of course we have long passed that stage. 
There are now over 200 000 people in the Australian Capital Territory. There is more than half that number- over 100 000, I believe- in the Northern Territory. We applaud the Government's response in accepting a principle which, as I said, has been accepted by the Australian Labor Party for many years. Unfortunately, this principle was denied by the present Government when it was in Opposition. When we tried to pass this legislation earlier it was obstructed in the Senate. The population of Canberra is now approaching half the population of our smallest State, Tasmania. Tasmania has large numbers of elected people. It has 10 senators. Canberra has only two. I think it is a reasonable prediction that in the foreseeable future the Australian Capital Territory will catch up and possibly pass the population of Tasmania. I think it is inappropriate that such a large number of people should be ignored in the Constitution or should be regarded in any way as something less than full citizens. 
I take this opportunity of saying what a high regard I have for the wise and learned ruling that was given in this House yesterday by the  Speaker  in which he confirmed the status of myself and other elected Territorial representatives in this House. He removed, at least for the time being, any doubts which we may have had in this regard. I think that was a wise ruling. I have no doubt that it would be endorsed by the large majority of fair-minded Australians. I have some doubt, of course, that it would be accepted by some members of the High Court. They may have dissented from that ruling if they had had the opportunity. 
Yes. I must commend the  Speaker  on the very wise ruling he made yesterday and express our appreciation for it, even though we have been elected by people and we represent people who are regarded by the High Court as something less than Australian citizens. 
There is no doubt that all these issues should receive an affirmative response from the electorate at large. The first 3 issues have a direct interest for all Australian citizens. The right of a vote in a referendum for the Territorial citizens is of direct concern only to those people living in the Territories. I have heard it suggested that people in the more geographically remote or isolated States in Australia, such as Western Australia or Queensland, may be tempted to vote against this proposal simply as a means of registering some sort of political protest against the centralisation of power in Canberra. Whatever their justification may be for making such a protest against Canberra as the seat of the Parliament of the Commonwealth, whether it be directed against one or other of the political parties, most people would agree that there can be no genuine justification for using this issue to deny fellow citizens a fundamental right which they themselves have enjoyed since Federation. I have confidence that my fellow Australians in those States will be generous enough to concede that we should have that right. 
I am confident that most Australian citizens will see Canberra not only as the seat of the Commonwealth Parliament and the national capital but also as a community of 200 000 people, many of whom have moved here from other States. We live under much the same rules, conditions and laws as other people in Australia. Of course, some people think that everything is bright and beautiful in Canberra. I can assure them that it is not, especially since this Government has been in power. Many of the little perks that went with Canberra have disappeared and, in fact, the conditions we live under are in some instances much worse than in other parts. We pay more taxes per head than anybody else in Australia. The cost of living is the highest in Australia by far. People should not be fooled into believing that everything is bright and beautiful in Canberra. It might have been when the Labor Government was in power but it is certainly not that way now. 
Probably the most ironical aspect of the denial of the right of a referendum vote to citizens of the Territories is that many of the descendants of the original citizens of this country, the Aborigines, reside in those Territories and these people are being denied a vote in referenda. Many of them reside in the Northern Territory but I also have a group in my electorate at Wreck Bay in the Jervis Bay area who are included in this category. I appeal to all voting Australians to support this move to see that their fellow citizens in the Territories are given the right to vote in referenda so that they can exercise the same democratic rights as all other voting citizens and express their points of view of issues which concern them as much as they concern other citizens of the Commonwealth. While the acceptance of this proposition will remove one of the main obstacles to full citizens' rights to Territorial citizens it will not remove the doubt cast on the validity of Territorial representation which was implied in the remarks of the Chief Justice in the recent High Court judgment. In this regard I must commend and support the efforts of the honourable member for Canberra  (Mr Haslam),  and his colleagues to to have this doubt cleared up. I hope they will continue with their efforts and at some stage it may be considered by a future Constitutional Convention so that this doubt is removed altogether. 
Whenever we are debating Constitutional matters there is always a temptation to quote our founding fathers. In conclusion, I should like to quote briefly one of our greatest founding fathers, Alfred Deakin, whose name is commemorated in this city. It is appropriate in considering matters affecting the Constitution. He said: 
We should seek to erect a constitutional edifice which shall be a guarantee of liberty and union for all time to come to the whole people of this continent . . . 
I emphasise the stress he puts on the words union for all time for the whole people of this continent'. It is absolute nonsense that, as some members of the present Government said when they were in opposition, it was never intended by the founding fathers that people in Territories should be citizens of the Commonwealth. It was always intended. Many quotations of the founding fathers show that it was intended that that should be. We should be a union and that there should be no distinction and no such thing as first or second class citizens. Alfred Deakin also said: 
Wherever we can detect a Federal interest or power we should provide for it in advance without waiting for public clamour or the long agitation leading up to an amendment of the situation. We should provide in advance for all conceivable Federal contingencies, strengthen the Federal Government and trust the Federal Parliament to use its powers wisely. 
I suggest that the Federal Government is using its powers wisely in recommending to the people of Australia that they accept these 4 alterations to the Constitution. Obviously the Constitution was intended to be amended. We provided for these contingencies and we are now exercising those rights as laid down under the Constitution to make the amendments by way of referendum. I commend all these issues to the people of Australia. 
I address my question to the Minister for Health. I refer to recent allegations in the Canberra Press that the dispute between salaried and private specialists in the Australian Capital Territory is being resolved by the destruction of the salaried service and that the Capital Territory Health Commission could be in breach of the Trade Practices Act. As the Minister has not refuted these allegations, I ask him: Firstly, is he concerned that this is in fact the situation with regard to specialist services in the Australian Capital Territory? Secondly, does he intend to discuss this matter with representatives of the salaried specialists? 
I must say that it is a very welcome relief to hear the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher)  make quite a reasoned speech without resorting to union bashing. It has been quite sad to see so many Government supporters use the opportunity for debating this Bill to indulge in very blatant union bashing without any real consideration of the problems involved. I oppose this legislation precisely for that reason and the reason, of course, is contained in the objective as outlined by the honourable member for Hume. The legislation was designed to promote rule of law. With regard to the industrial aspects, I suggest that the Government should be looking at the causes of the problems in the industrial work force and not promoting the rule of law. I suggest to the Government that it cannot solve the deep social problems within the work force by repressive legislation. This is a completely negative approach which cannot possibly succeed and I have no doubt that it will exacerbate the existing very poor industrial relations which prevail between a government that is becoming more repressive every day and a work force which is becoming more disadvantaged and alienated every day. A more positive approach would be for the Government to have a serious look at the social problems facing the whole of Australian society but, more particularly, the industrial work force, due to the far reaching structural changes which are under way and which affect the size, the quality and the distribution of the work force. These are the real underlying problems but the Government chooses not to look at these problems but to apply some sort of repressive band-aid treatment to solve the problems. 
The point that I wish to make is that the industrial work force has enough to contend with as the present capitalist system continues on its inevitable path of squeezing the work force in its quest for profits without being subjected to deliberately provocative legislation of this nature. It has enough to put up with without this provocative law making. I suggest that a more positive approach to the problem would indicate some of the real structural problems facing Australia. I am sure, for instance, that it would indicate that there is a good deal of evidence available, particularly in other advanced industrial capitalist countries, that the industries in these societies will tend to employ a decreasing percentage of the work force in relation to productivity increases as industry becomes more highly monopolised, internationalised and automated. It is quite apparent to workers and to industrial spokesmen that wage restraint in a capitalist society results in enhanced opportunity for business to accumulate profits with which to automate further their operations and dispense with workers, thereby adding to the growing unemployment and, in fact, establishing a large permanent pool of unemployed. The other very disturbing trend in the work force is that not only does the relative size of the industrial work force tend to decline but that the relative skill of the work force tends to decline. Whilst we must acknowledge that in the Australian situation there are shortages of skilled labour in particular sectors and in particular geographical areas of the work force, there is also considerable evidence that as automation and technology progress and while the need for small numbers of highly skilled operators may increase, there is also a definite tendency for the skilled operators to be replaced by semi-skilled operators and for semiskilled operators to be replaced by unskilled operators in industry. So when we consider this situation, it is little wonder, with both the size and the skill of the work force being squeezed, that workers should be anxious and apprehensive about maintaining their hard won salary standards and their status in the work force. 
A further distressing aspect of this process is that it leaves large sectors of the work force in occupations which do not utilise the degree of skill to which they have been trained and which also leaves no scope for any advancement by utilising the latent skills which they may have as individuals. I suggest that these are very real problems facing the industrial work force in any capitalist society today, and these are the things that governments should be looking at. Governments need sympathy and understanding in order to develop a satisfactory industrial climate between the trade unions and government, and not repressive, union bashing legislation and stupid, unthinking, shallow speeches such as those which we have heard from the Government side today. 
I want to refer to proposed new section 45D, because that is the section which concerns the Opposition in particular. I believe it is a rather classic example of blatant repressive legislation which strikes a savage blow at the only real weapon which the worker has at his disposal, and that, of course, is his right to withdraw his labour, which is the only means by which working people can demonstrate their solidarity. It is the only real weapon that workers have against the combined forces that make up the entrenched power and dominance of the capitalist form of production. It is the only weapon they have against the monopolies and multinationals and their expert teams of legal eagles, accountants, consultants, their friends in the media and the whole paraphanalia that make up the system. It is the weapon which the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  wanted the dockyard workers in Newcastle to give up before he would give them government contracts. To their credit they did not fall for it. I believe that this provision is a very ugly big stick by which it is hoped to bludgeon workers into submission. 
Proposed new section 45D, of course, is concerned with secondary boycotts. Speaking of boycotts and people withholding their services, it might be of interest to honourable members opposite to know that members of the great and honourable medical profession, through their Canberra branch of the Australian Medical Association, have been effectively boycotting the salaried specialist services in Canberra hospitals by refusing to work with the people who provide those services, even to the extent of delaying urgently required medical services. What sort of boycott is that? We talk about trade union boycotts. This situation has been in existence in Canberra for more than 12 months and it is still continuing. I do not see that this sort of legislation will stop that sort of practice. 
The Medical Association is, in effect, a trade union and in certain circumstances it withholds its services because it does not want to see salaried specialists infringing on its little empire, which is a very wealthy empire of course. It is prepared to take that sort of action to the detriment of the public medical services. It has practised social ostracism and even racial discrimination and petty obstruction against highly skilled specialists in a way which is contrary to the so-called ethical standards of the medical profession and in total disregard of the interests of the public. If industrial unionists acted in that way they would be put in gaol; they would be socially ostracised. But the medical profession gets away with it. I would like to know whether the Minister thinks that this sort of legislation should be applied to that sort of conduct by a profession such as the medical profession. I have m mind the way in which it has been carrying on in the Australian Capital Territory. 
The only other aspect of the legislation I want to mention briefly is the threshold provisions. I know that there has been a lot of criticism of this aspect of the legislation. I think it is patently ridiculous to apply a $3m turnover threshold in controlling mergers. I understand that something like seven-eighths of all clearances in the past 12 months have concerned companies that fall within that category. Now, of course, they will be excluded. I suggest that it certainly leaves the way open for small, successful, fast-growing companies to be taken over and thus remove the competition which large companies fear and like to destroy. I think there is a very good case for the Commission, under well defined guidelines, to exercise discretionary power in relation to thresholds. But that should be left to the discretion of the Commission rather than be the subject of a cut-off point which is quite unrealistic. I believe that small companies, especially labour-intensive companies, have a very vital role to play in the Australian industrial scene. I think that they will continue to have that role while we have relatively small centres of population spread over very large areas. I think that the proposed threshold under this legislation will expose those companies to takeover and it will make it very difficult for them to survive. 
I do not want to comment any further, except to say that this legislation, especially proposed new section 4So, is very repugnant. It cannot possibly work. Its results will undoubtedly be the opposite to that which it is intended to achieve. I have no doubt that proposed new section 45D will be one of the first measures which will be repealed when the Australian Labor Party comes back to government next year. 
-I think there is no question that for once the Government and the Opposition are in agreement. The beef industry is m a terrible mess. We would not be completely in agreement about why it is in a mess, of course, but I am sure we are all in agreement on many of the underlying problems of the beef industry. The beef industry is in a mess because of inherent difficulties. It has long term problems, problems connected with economic selfsufficiency in other countries such as Japan which protect their farming communities, the same as we do here, and subsidise them. The beef industry is also in a terrible mess because it has two great liabilities. I refer of course to the two great political liabilities that the beef industry has in this Parliament. I mention firstly the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  who went to a dinner in America and was invited to talk about the beef industry. He did not initiate the discussion. Leaders opposite talk about the quantity of exports involved but do not know the figures. My colleague the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  pointed this fact out very well. This is gross incompetency on behalf of the leaders of this country who pretend to have the beef industry at heart but really are not well briefed on it. They are more concerned with other matters of direct interest to them and perform very badly in looking after the interests of the beef industry whenever they go overseas. 
The other big liability is the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair).  I think the great liability at the moment is the Minister's procrastination over a wide range of measures which could help the beef industry and which have been requested by a large number of organisations within the industry. A whole range of matters is involved but probably the matter which warrants the most urgent consideration is the failure to establish the Australian meat and livestock corporation. This proposal has been under consideration for some time. We get all sorts of excuses and delays, but nothing happens. At this time a whole range of rural publications and comments in the rural media is criticising the Minister. Members or organisations such as Federal and State livestock producers organisations, the Woolgrowers' and Graziers' Council, the Australian National Cattlemen's Council, the Australian Wool and Meat Producers Federation and the Australian Farmers Federation are all calling for a change in the structure of the Australian Meat Board. What has the Minister done? He has done nothing. 
The Minister has not taken any action regarding the promise to which he gave great prominence in the policy speech. I refer to the establishment of a national rural bank. All sorts of problems are associated with the establishment of a national rural bank. When it is established it will probably be seen to be in the form of some sort of window dressing without any real substance. He made the promise; he has not produced the goods, in the same way as he made the promise about restructuring the Australian Meat Corporation. He thought that devaluation would get him off the hook in relation to the beef industry. It may have, for a few weeks. Now the chickens have come home to roost. It is quite apparent that he has not been got off the hook. The huge differences between the returns and the cost of producing beef have not been offset by devaluation. Prices are still low. Producers continue to be exploited by meat processors. Devaluation has been merely a temporary expedient. It has done nothing to solve the long term problems of the industry. I quote from an article by  Mr Cameron,  the Executive Officer of the Australian National Cattlemen's Council: 
Low cattle prices throughout 1976-77, coupled with a substantial increase in farm costs, will result in beef dominant producers in the high rainfall zone receiving average net cash incomes of $3650 or the equivalent of $70 per week. This in turn is forcing producers to continue to offer cattle for sale that are either unfinished or could be retained until the market improved. 
That is a measure of the desperate straits which the beef industry is in. Last year when I spoke on this matter I tabled a document showing the excessive profits which all meat exporters were making. I understand that this trend is continuing. I substantiated my charges by showing the profits made by F. J. Walker Ltd, Tancred Bros Pty Ltd- of which the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume)  is a director; and the meat producers in Macarthur will be aware of his division of interests between Tancred Bros and the producers-Metropolitan Meat Co. Pty Ltd, J. C. Hutton Pty Ltd and T. A. Fields Pty Ltd. The figures are here. They have been well circulated. They have been reinforced by a letter which I received a few days ago from a producer at Hughenden, Queensland. This lady, who is an official of the local branch of the Cattlemen's Union of Australia, paints a very nice picture of the way in which the local meatworks, which produces a lot of meat, is manipulating the market in Townsville:  the practice of meatworks owning properties running thousands of head of cattle and their practice of using the fat and boner stock from these properties to flood the market at a time when most forest country cattle are coming into the auction yard could be transgressing some part of the Restrictive Trade Practices Act. 
It is good when one section of the industry practises restrictive trade agreements which manipulate the market to the disadvantage of the producer. She also wrote about a Townsville works, which I understand is mainly owned by F. J. Walker: 
. one Townsville works contemplates killing 2000 head per week from its properties for 2 months this season and will not be buying outside cattle. 
It is a wonderful situation in one of the largest cattle growing areas in Australia. The lady further wrote:  . . in most areas cattle can only be turned off in reasonable condition while the grass is still growing and hasn't gone to seed. Pan of this time, the early Wet, boggy conditions make it impossible either to muster or to transport cattle to the works. Hence on the more remote properties cattle are mustered after the Wet- end March- and reach the market in late April to early July, which is when the exporting companies have decided to move their own cattle. Naturally prices are depressed. 
This is a blatant case of a meatworks manipulating the market to its own advantage and to the disadvantage of the producer. I have no doubt that this situation is being duplicated in many meatworks throughout the country. If one looks at who owns the meatworks and the fingers that they have in the pie at the producing end, the number of cattle they own and the number of acres they control, one sees that they are in a very strong position to manipulate the market to the disadvantage of the producer. This lady to whom I referred also wrote about the big cattle property Stanbroke, which is owned by Thomas Borthwick and Sons Ltd, the Australian Mutual Provident Society and  Sir Sidney  Kidman. These are the big properties which manipulate the market. What chance has a small producer? 
All the information we have about the industry is that it is in a mess. On the other side, we have the very sorry picture of the Government doing nothing about it. The Minister for Primary Industry has let the industry down badly because he has a conflict of interest. Despite the fact that he represents a country seat, his background is very much Establishment and part of the commercial world. He certainly has a conflict of interest in trying to look after the interests of the producer and at the same time wanting to protect the interests of the meat processors who continue to make high profits at the expense of the producers. It is quite obvious that these people have been badly let down. I think the future of the meat industry is in many ways tied up with the future of the Minister for Primary Industry. He is in a dilemma. He has pressure from both sides. He does not know which way to jump. If he does not jump somewhere soon he will finish in the middle- he will finish on the floor- because the rural people are fed up with his procrastination and his failure to honour his promises. There is a wide range of things which he can do to assist primary industries, particularly the beef producers. He has done nothing. The people have just about had enough. 
y asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
1 ) What regulations made in New South Wales apply to teachers and schools in the Australian Capital Territory. 
Was N.S.W. legislation prior to 1911 continued in force in the Territory by section 6 of the Seat of Government (Acceptance) Act. 
If so, do the Public Instruction Act of 1880 of N.S.W. and the Free Education Act of 1 906 of N.S.W., together with regulations made under these Acts prior to 1911, have any application in the A.C.T. 
Bearing in mind that, in 1 937, an Education Ordinance was promulgated in the Territory and that section 3 of that Ordinance provided that 'This Ordinance shall be incorporated and read as one with the Public Instruction Act 1 880 and the Free Education Act 1906 of the State of N.S.W. and their application in the Territory', was the effect of section 3 to incorporate into the Ordinance, and therefore bring totally into effect in the Territory, the Public Instruction Act 1880 and the Free Education Act 1906 of N.S.W. and any regulations in existence in 1937 which were made under those 2 Acts. 
Does the exercise of legislative power in the area of education in 1937 preclude from application in the Territory of amendments to N.S. W. legislation on education, including regulations made under statute, after 1937. 
Does the repeal of the Public Instruction Act 1880 in 1970 mean that the Act no longer continues to be in force in the A.C.T.; and is the repealed Act replaced by the Teaching Service Act 1970 of the State of N.S.W. 
It was interesting to hear the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Burr)  equating big government and big business with big unions. What he did not say, of course, is that the inevitable process of big business and its move towards automation and technological progress in its manufacturing processes in the long term cannot fail to produce unemployment among workers. This process will not only reduce the number of people in the work force in terms of their productivity but also it will tend to reduce the skill of workers. As a result skilled jobs will become semi-skilled and semi-skilled jobs will become unskilled. This is a long term problem that has been created by these people. The problem will not be overcome by repressive legislation about which the honourable member has been talking. Sooner or later the Government will have to acknowledge the problem- not just the present problem of unemployment which it has created but the longer term problem of structural change. It will have to do something about creating employment. Big Brother will not help them in this respect. I endorse what the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  said by way of interjection about placing big brother in the Parliamentary Library so that members have to channel their requests through big brother. This arrangement will not help the democratic process in this Parliament either. 
It is hardly necessary to say that most Australians today are gravely concerned at the extremely high level of unemployment in Australia. I suggest that they are even more concerned with the forward projections of many responsible economists who consider that there is little prospect of a decline in unemployment. Many, of course, would go further and say that unfortunately the prospects are that unemployment is more likely to increase than to decline. I said 'most Australians' advisedly because while I know that most Australians are concerned about unemployment it is very apparent that there are many people in the Government who in their obsession with maintaining profits and reducing inflation in fact see increasing unemployment as a measure of the success of their misguided policies. Even though the policy of inducing unemployment has failed to contain inflation theardliners within the Government still persist with this misguided policy. 
I believe that the lack of sensitivity and the gross lack of compassion for the plight of the unemployed is the badge of distinction of the hardliners who now dominate the Government's thinking. Some members of course are genuinely concerned at the way events are unfolding in the economy in Australia, but their voices are being drowned out by the raucous cries of those strong men, those men of steel who want to flay the backs of the unemployed; the men who want to brand them as dole bludgers and malingerers; the men who want to deny the very lowest income people in our country, the people who really need full indexation, the benefits of full indexation; the men who are completely committed to the idea of survival of the fittest; the men who are utterly and completely lacking in compassion for people who happen to be less fortunate than themselves. 
To detract the attention of the Australian public from their lack of concern for the unemployed, Government Ministers have recently embarked on a deliberate campaign to discredit the unemployed by attempting to undermine the validity of their own figures in a most shameful and dishonest way. The Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  on 28 February in commenting on the 354 589 unemployed made the extraordinary statement that these figures are largely a myth. They may be a myth for the Minister, but I am sure that for the people who are suffering under the unemployment in this country it is not a myth; it is a reality, and a very stark and harsh reality. He went on to say that there are many people including young people who choose quite deliberately not to work. These statements were supposed to have been made on the basis of a Bureau of Statistics survey of November 1976 which was supposed to show that 147 600 people who left employment in 1976 did so voluntarily. This figure and the numbers concerned were given great prominence in the Press- large headlines in fact. But then a Department of Employment and Industrial Relations spokesman,  Mr Peter  Kirby, a First Assistant Secretary, a very senior man, let the cat out of the bag. He threw real light on the subject. He said: 
The information is quite incorrect. It is based on a misreading of freely available statistics. The survey conducted last year shows that 38. 1 per cent of those interviewed who had left or lost their jobs had resigned voluntarily. There is no basis for the assumption that these people were registered unemployed or receiving unemployment benefits. 
He gave the lie to the Minister's statement. He also said that such survey figures were suspect because many people who lost their jobs preferred saying that they left voluntarily to admitting that they were sacked. Probably the most pertinent point about these figures is that they were based on a very small sample survey from a small number of people who were interviewed and to translate that over to the whole field of the unemployment figure is quite misleading and deliberately dishonest. There are many reasons why people who leave a job may appear to do so voluntarily. People quite frequently are under pressure from their employers who want to pressure them to leave. Quite a few people come into my office, and I know other honourable members see them too, who say that their employers have made life unbearable for them, have abused them or have asked them to do all sorts of things that they are not qualified to do or are not supposed to do in their jobs. Undoubtedly a lot of pressure is put on people who for various reasons an employer may want to get rid of. Eventually the employees cannot stand the pressure and they leave the job supposedly voluntarily. There are the sorts of cases that these figures are built on. 
As could be anticipated,  Mr Kirby  's statement, which gave the he completely to the Minister's statement and to the headlines in the Press, was buried at the bottom of an article where only those who were reading every word of the article would have seen it. No headlines of course for 

 Mr Kirby 's statement. This is the sort of thing we have come to expect from the Press, which orchestrates its publicity to fit in with a deliberate policy of the Government to take attention away from the unemployment problems and to mislead the Australian people by deliberately using dishonest methods to undermine official statistics. 
I want to say a few words about the rural sector and the beef industry in particular because of the emphasis in the Queen's Speech of the need to sustain and support the private sector as it is always referred to and to increase those areas of productivity where there is some scope for increase. The beef industry is a complete disaster area. An industry spokesman said recently that low cattle prices throughout 1976-77 coupled with a substantial increase in farm costs will result in beef dominant producers in the high rainfall zone receiving average net incomes of $3650 per annum or the equivalent of $70 a week. This is the private sector which Ls supposed to be supported by this staunch supporter of private enterprise, the existing Government. This is forcing producers to continue to offer cattle for sale that are either unfinished or could be retained until the market improved. 
It is very interesting to look at the profit figures of meat exporters. I have tried to keep the House up to date with the very strong rising profit trend in every meat exporting company. It was interesting to read in the paper a couple of days ago that Anderson Meat Industries, one of the biggest meat exporters, recently announced a 39 per cent increase in profits. That was very good, but in the year concluded at the end of December 1975 it had a 102 per cent increase in profit. On top of that it now has a 39 per cent increase in profit. It would be all very well if the producers were sharing in this prosperity the meat exporters are experiencing, but, of course, they are not. The meat exporters are making their profit at the expense of the producers, and this Government is doing nothing about it. This Government is supposedly committed to sustaining the rural sector. 
Of course the beef industry leaders are up in arms because the Government is doing precisely nothing except offering gratuitous advice such as the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  gave to the beef producers last week. It is all so interesting to see a meat export company at Townsville manipulating the market by stopping its buying from the producers at certain stages and killing its own cattle, at the same time killing the demand in the market. There is a very limited time for people to market their stock. The meat company is manipulating and deliberately depressing the market. This is just another concrete example of the way meat exporters are exploiting producers and the way the Government is doing nothing about it. 
The Australian National Cattlemen's Council has called for a national inquiry into the marketing and distribution of beef in Australia and overseas. There is a crying need for this inquiry and the Government has been completely silent about it. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  will not be drawn about it. Obviously he is in a bind. He does not want to upset his friends in the meat exporting industry. He is not pre- 
Eared to do something for the producers whom e is supposed to represent. There has been an inordinate delay in restructuring the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation. There has been a delay in establishing a national rural bank which was promised by this Government. There is a standoff or an inability to do anything about the way beef is marketed in Australia which allows exporters to exploit the producers continually. 
The  Deputy  Prime Minister has suggested to producers that they withhold stocks from sale to increase prices. I suggest that primary producers do not need him to tell them when to sell thenstock or when to withhold it. Most of these people have been in the game for a long long time. They know the restrictions under which they operate. They know the pressures under which they are from their financial institutions. They do not need that rather stupid advice from  Mr Anthony  to withhold their stock to force up market prices. A lot of them, of course, cannot alford to withhold stock. Many of them have a bank breathing down their necks to meet their interest payments. They need a cash flow and there are very few avenues of credit available to them. I suggest that in order to follow up the Minister's suggestion the Government should agree to assist beef producers to meet interest charges which will mount up while they are withholding their stock. The attitude that the industry has to  Mr Anthony's  suggestion is summed up by  Mr Rod  Black, the  President  of the Australian Wool and Meat Producers Federation: 
The withholding of finished stock will not assist beef producers to meet their already crippling financial commitments. Indeed it will only increase the problem. 
Of course, it will increase the problem if it delays the time when large numbers of stock have to be put onto the market and upsets the normal ebb and flow of the market. 
To come nearer to home, I just want to refer to another disaster area in my electorate which has emerged as a result of Government policy. This is, of course, in the building industry in the Australian Capital Territory. In this area some very interesting and rather frightening statistics have emerged in the last few days. The number of people working in the industry fell 22 per cent last year. To bring these statistics further up to date, in the last 2 months building permits taken out in the Australian Capital Territory have dropped by 50 per cent. It is good to see that my colleague the honourable member for Canberra  (Mr Haslam)-the  independent member as some of us are calling him; he is a member of the Liberal Party but quite often I think he would much rather be an independent member and he might feel more secure if he were- has to his credit brought out the facts concerning the building industry in Canberra and described its deplorable condition. While building permits have dropped 50 per cent in January and February total unemployment in the Australian Capital Territory has increased by 235 per cent in the last 12 months. It has been the most rapid increase in unemployment in the whole of Australia and this is in a place which traditionally is free from unemployment problems. 
One of the greatest deterrents, of course, to the building industry in Canberra is the cutting back on Government spending particularly by the National Capital Development Commission. Most of the projects which it is now completing were initiated by the Labor Government. Very few new projects have been undertaken despite all sorts of promises by the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Staley)  that some great projects are just about to materialise; they are just about to come to fruition; they are just around the corner. They are still around the corner. I have not seen any major projects that have been initiated and brought forward by the present Minister for the Capital Territory. The other deterrent is the extremely high interest rates in the Australian Capital Territory on housing loans which prevent people who want to build houses from embarking on a construction program because they just cannot meet the extremely heavy commitments that are brought about by high interest rates. This is not helped by the increase in the statutory reserve deposits which the banks are called upon to meet from time to time. Every time they are increased this puts further pressure on the industry because it deprives the industry of some funds which are badly needed. 
I have tried to help the Minister for the Capital Territory. I have some sympathy for his situation but I find him very difficult to help. I suggested recently that it would be very easy to increase the pine planting program in Canberra by 50 per cent. There are ample seedlings available. The land has already been prepared. It is ready for planting. All that was wanted was money to employ a few more people. The Department did not want any more resources. It would not have had any influence on inflation. The equipment was there. The plants were there and the land was there. All that was wanted was the manpower. I suggested that another thirty people could be employed for a whole year or fifty or sixty people could be employed for half a year. This would have increased the program by 50 per cent. I do not know what is wrong with this proposition. The people are available. It would create a long term resource that this country undoubtedly needs. The land is ready. Everything is ready to go ahead, but so far I have had no response. I am quite pessimistic about it because I think once again the Minister has failed to convince the Government that it should in fact try to get a few people off the unemployment list. Here was an opportunity to get thirty or sixty families off unemployment and back into productive work but the answer apparently is no. I hope it is not no, but I put it to the Minister several weeks ago and I have not heard a word about it so I am beginning to fear the worst. 
In other areas there has been gross waste. The Department of Construction has embarked upon a policy of not employing a day labour force despite the fact that it has hundreds of thousands of dollars worth of heavy machinery for day labour jobs just sitting there- graders, bulldozers and these sorts of things. The Government has insisted that the work be let out to private enterprise. The Government finishes up paying a good deal more for the job because the private enterprise developer has to use his equipment and the Government is paying for that while its equipment is left to go rusty just because it has this crazy policy of cutting down on the day labour force. 
All the problems in Canberra have been deliberately induced by this Government. The staff ceilings set for the Public Service have contributed to a great deal of hardship. It has caused a drop in morale in the Public Service in Canberra. It will be very interesting to see the response of Canberra people in a few months time when the election for the local Legislative Assembly will be held. That will be the first opportunity that the people of Canberra will have to say what they think of the performance of this Government. I am quite confident that they will give a resounding vote to the Labor candidates and show the Government just what they think of its policies for Canberra- policies of deliberately inducing unemployment and hardship in an area in which there is no justification whatsoever. 
It is very difficult to decide just at what point to begin in discussing the foreign policy review of the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock).  It covers a very wide range of issues but it covers them to a very large degree in generalities. In my view it glosses over some of the most critical questions concerning our attitudes to foreign policy and, indeed, substitutes rhetoric for substance on most of the issues. It is so general that it is difficult to distil the actual policy content of the statement. To be fair, I think it should be said that at the level of general rhetoric it is a more sober and mature account of Australian foreign policy and of the wider aspects of national security than has been any previous statement made by a Liberal Foreign Minister. I am happy to concede that to the present Minister. It eschews the threatmongering that has characterised most previous ministerial statements as well as statements by some current Ministers, including the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  The statement implicitly rejects any possibility of returning to the old posture of the pre- 1972 period, despite the personal predilections of the Prime Minister. At least at the level of rhetoric the Government has to some extent come of age. For instance, it was heartening to hear the Minister at the beginning of his address acknowledge the general trend in the international system towards the break-up of the bi-polar structure and the increasing role of economic matters in international affairs. Of course, they were apparent some 5 to 10 years ago and were readily acknowledged and acted upon by the Labor Government. 
Where substantive policy content can be distilled from the statement, virtually all of the initiatives appear merely as the consequence of pressures of the Australian Labor Party and decisions by it when in government. 
-I shall spell them out for the honourable member: The initiatives in regard to Japan, the recognition of China, the withdrawal from Vietnam and the recognition of Vietnam, and the normalisation of relations with those neighbours. There is no question about this. These were Labor initiatives which this Government was glad enough to go along with. But we initiated them; not the present Government. The appreciation of the legitimate interests of the Third World and the recognition of the global issues and their implications for Australia are other such initiatives. However, what is different is that this rhetoric is not represented by the actions of the present Government. The Minister's discussion of the Government's intention to change our trade relations with the member countries of the Association of South East Asian Nations, is humbug. In practice, as the Minister said, any change is to be deferred until the Australian economy improves. When that may take place under the present Government is anybody's guess. Meanwhile, actions such as devaluation make the relations worse. There has been plenty of evidence of that in the reaction of Malaysia recently to the recent changes in our currency. 
The hollowness of Government policy when it comes to actual situations is revealed in a number of sections of the Minister's statement. The one to which I want to pay particular attention is that dealing with the question of Timor, about which so much has been said in this debate. I believe that the issue of Timor is quickly developing as the conscience of the Australian people in foreign affairs. Australia has turned its back on the wishes and aspirations of the Timorese. In fact, it has tried to forget the considerable sacrifices which the Timorese made for Australian servicemen during World War II. This is not just a matter of what we did or what the Government did; it is a question of Australia's interests in relation to our credibility and our standing in the community of nations on the question of the preservation of human rights and on the question of self-determination. In the area of the community of nations I suggest, from my own experience in addressing the United Nations Security Council, that our credibility was decreased considerably by our failure to take a moral stand on the Timor question. When many other nations looked to Australia for a lead Australia failed to give that lead, and that was noted by countries throughout the world. 
It is also a question of whether it is in our long term interests to have Indonesia in Portuguese East Timor rather than to have an independent nation such as the East Timorese want. Australia's present position threatens our own security interests. Most particularly, since any major threat to Australia is likely to come either from Indonesia or at least through Indonesia, it makes strategic sense to oppose Indonesian territorial encroachment in this region. More generally, it is an essential part of Australia's security posture to work for general acceptance of international principles of national sovereignty and non-intervention in the internal affairs of neighbouring states- principles simply violated by the recent Indonesian action. 
It is interesting to note that Indonesia is becoming so upset about  Mr Dunn's  appearance before the Donald Fraser Congressional Committee in America. That merely highlights the growing importance of this issue as a matter of principle. I suggest that it is highly insolent and impertinent of Indonesia to question the propriety of  Mr Dunn's  actions. These actions are concerned with discovering the truth of what went on in Timor, including the truth as to how 6 Australian citizens met a brutal death there. It is interesting to note that the Indonesians have invited  Mr Donald  Fraser to inspect the situation in Portuguese East Timor on behalf of the Committee. If he is prepared to do this, the Indonesians might be prepared to accept an inspection by an Australian parliamentary committee. It will be interesting to see whether the Minister for Foreign Affairs puts this proposition to the Indonesians. It would be consistent with the Indonesians inviting an American committee to have a look at the situation in Timor. 
I doubt that the Indonesians would accept that proposition, because we could not even get them to agree to let a member of the Australian Red Cross or the International Red Cross go to Timor to supervise what was happening to our aid. On the evidence that  Mr Dunn  has produced, our aid was used by Indonesians, not by Timorese. I think it is an even greater impertinence to call in the Australian Ambassador in order to ' reprimand ' him for his actions. If  Mr Woolcott  's status is such that he is regarded by the Indonesian Government as a servant who can be reprimanded, I think the Government must give consideration to recalling  Mr Woolcott  and replacing him with someone who will not be seen as being so identified with Indonesia on the Timor question and who is prepared to concentrate on explaining our point of view to the Indonesian Government rather than trying to tell the Australian Government the best way that it can accept the Indonesian point of view on Timor. 
It is highly desirable that we maintain good relations with Indonesia, but I suggest that these relations should be based on a mutual respect for basic human rights and the right of selfdetermination for all nations. We get no marks and no prestige at all from Indonesia by appeasing its territorial ambitions. It is only through the activities of a small band of people who have been prepared to speak up for basic human rights and particularly through the actions of  Mr Jim  Dunn- shame on those who seek to frustrate his actions- coupled with the advent of the Carter Administration that we now have been able to get the United States of America interested in the Timor question and in looking at the allegations of atrocities and of the use of American military aid in Timor. 
The other question, to which I want to refer briefly, is the Indian Ocean. Of course, on this the 
Government has been caught floundering in a very sad way. It has been government policy to try to commit the United States to a military presence in the area, as it tried previously through the instruments of the Vietnam war and the United States defence intelligence facilities in Australia. Manufacturing a Soviet threat is a basic ploy in trying to generate this commitment. Again this policy is short sighted. For one thing, it only antagonises the Soviet Union. There is no point in ignoring the realities of growing Soviet strategic power and internal repression, but nothing is to be gained by exaggerating the Soviet presence in the Indian Ocean, particularly in the scare-mongering terms sometimes used by Government Ministers. 
More importantly, it flies in the face of the direction of American policy developments.  President  Carter's recent call for super-power disengagement from the Indian Ocean while the Prime Minister and the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  have been arguing for an expanded American presence is outstanding only for the stark way in which it contrasts differences. These differences have been apparent for some time, as evidenced in the quite lukewarm response which the Minister for Defence received to his proposals last July for a joint United StatesAustralian naval presence in the Indian Ocean. The fact is that, apart from patrolling areas for its Poseidon submarines, the U.S. is not interested in a major presence in this region. The U.S. is having to take stock of its world-wide deployment and has realised that it must give greater attention to Europe and especially to the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation. The Indian Ocean and the South West Pacific are quite low in the American order of priorities, I suggest. I should like to refer to a recent publication by  Mr Malcolm  Booker, a senior officer of the Department of Foreign Affairs with some 35 years service. I shall quote a very significant passage at page 2 1 5 of his book,  The Last Domino.  It reads: 
The decline in American power in the Pacific must be expected to continue. It is becoming increasingly unacceptable politically- both at home and abroad- for United States bases to be maintained in Japan and the Philippines. Even in the Indian Ocean- where the Americans seemed at one time to have contemplated a forward policy- it would be rash to assume that they would wish to maintain major installations on a long-term basis. 
This next part is very significant: 
It seems unlikely for example that Diego Garcia will ever serve as the base for a major American fleet. 
Such bases have ceased to be strategically necessary to the defence of the United States. Although, because of the inertia of the United States defence establishment, the withdrawal may be gradual, the logic of new naval technologies may eventually be manifested in a virtual abandonment of  fixed establishments overseas. The safety of the United States rests upon the maintenance of superiority in nuclear striking power and upon that alone. 
America's reorientation away from South East Asia, the south-west Pacific and the Indian Ocean towards its more traditional centres of interest will not be immediate and may be subject to temporary reversals. But it will undoubtedly occur and any Australian policy which is based on other assumptions is doomed inevitably to failure. 
The Government has seen fit to introduce a new concept- that of balance at the lowest level of balance at low levels- in an attempt to adjust its desires for an American presence to the fact of an American withdrawal. The concepts of 'balance' and of 'low' have not been defined. What do they mean? I suggest that they are completely meaningless concepts. The first, that is, balance has been one of the most intractable terms in the history of international relations. It is doubtful whether this Government has produced a formulation which has any real meaning. Who is going to judge when balance is reached? Would it be that the Russians or the Americans would have the same idea about when a situation of balance is reached, or would somebody like General Suharto be called in to referee as to when the balance has been achieved? This is a ridiculous gimmick. It is an unreal concept. It is a form of words that has been dished up by the Department of Foreign Affairs to get the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  off the hook, to try to rationalise a statement that could not be substantiated about balance in the Indian Ocean. How can the Soviet balance the United States Poseiden submarine presence in the Indian Ocean? Putting some of its own submarines there is no answer. It may require a surface fleet including anti-submarine vessels which the United States must then respond to with carriers. Because of the quite different structures of the 2 navies and their different strategic interests in the region, the only balance which could work in practice is at a zero level. The Government should go all the way in this case with  President  Carter in his call for the Indian Ocean as a zone of peace and should stop talking about these meaningless concepts of balance at a low level. 
The third question to which I wish to refer briefly concerns the fact that east Africa, although it is a major focus of turmoil in the world today, hardly rated any reference in the Minister's statement. Obviously the Government has not realised the full significance of what is happening in south and east Africa. 
-We have genuinely some sympathy for the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck),  but really so many times has he threatened to cross the floor that it is becoming melodramatic. It never happens. He is always going to do it but he never takes the step and I think the people of Tasmania can be reasonably sure he never will take the step, despite all the huffings and puffings that go on. I can understand his dilemma and I am very sympathetic to it, but his blustering and blackguarding will not hide the fact that he will do a lot of talking but will not really cross the floor. 
I support the amendment moved by my colleague the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating).  It was moved in good faith and the Opposition stands by it. The amendment has 2 very important objectives. There is no inconsistency with our previous stand on this matter. We want to give growers an additional stabilisation payment of $ 1 a box for apples and 40c for pears to enable them to survive at a level of income which is not grossly out of step with the Australian community at large. That is a reasonable proposition. The second more positive approach is that we want to provide supplementary assistance to facilitate structural adjustments in the industry until long term measures can be put into effect which will put the industry on a stable basis. The honourable member for Franklin should be grateful that the Opposition has moved this amendment which he would love to have moved but for which he could not get the support of his Party. We are doing it for him. If he has any sense he will come over and vote with us. 
I can understand and appreciate his dilemma. He and his other colleagues whose constituents include significant numbers of pome fruit growers now face the unenviable choice either of supporting the amendment moved by the Australian Labor Party- an amendment which seeks to secure an increase in the subsidy for apple and pear growers in the honourable member's electorate and in the electorates of his fellow Tasmanian, Western Australian, Queensland and Victorian colleagues- or of voting to deprive them of this extra assistance to which we maintain they are entitled. I believe that the honourable member for Franklin and all the other honourable members from apple growing districts are men of principle who have a compassionate concern for the fruit growers in their electorates. So really the honourable member for Franklin and his colleagues should have no difficulty at all in supporting this amendment. He would know that if he and his colleagues take a stand in principle on this matter even if they cannot succeed in this House they will give moral support and encouragement to their colleagues in another place to an extent which may enable this amendment to be carried, thus enabling their constituents to obtain some relief from their problems. If the honourable members from Tasmania wish to oppose our amendment their choice is to go along meekly with the harsh handtomouth subsidy as proposed in the Bill with no real prospect of any long term remedies being applied to the industry. 
I wrote it. By doing this they will be rejecting the humanitarian and compassionate approach of the Labor Party. We have always been a humanitarian and compassionate party, as we have demonstrated. If they reject our approach they will be supporting the hard line  ad hoc  approach which is lacking in compassion and which is so typical of the Fraser Government. There is nothing inconsistent about the ALP approach. We have always questioned the wisdom of sustaining people in a situation in which there is no real prospect for improvement when other avenues of opportunity are available. We have always supported the stabilisation funds as an interim measure and we have always supported the view that everyone in a resource-rich country like Australia is entitled to receive at least an income which keeps them above the poverty line as generally accepted in the community. 
This is not a laughing matter. It is a serious matter. I worked in the apple industry for many years and I know what the industry is like. It has been estimated by grower representatives that to reach the equivalent assistance of $2 for apples which prevailed in 1976 the assistance this year would need to be $3.58 a box to take account of the increase in cash costs of production inputs and extra freight charges. So we are not asking for the full amount of $3.58 which would maintain the status quo from last year. We are suggesting $3. We have always maintained that the real solution is in sympathetic reconstruction procedures which move towards tailoring the production of apples and pears in Australia to the needs of the domestic market, plus any profitable export outlets which we may have or may reasonably expect to develop in the future. 
The only thing that has changed substantially in the last year is that this Government's economic policies are such that the opportunity for fruit growers to move to other avenues of employment or occupation has considerably declined. That is the Government's responsibility. It cannot be passed on to the Labor Party. If the opportunity for earning alternative or supplementary income has declined, and as Government policies have ensured that a high level of inflation will continue this year, there is strong justification to ease the burden on producers by increasing the stabilisation payments as a temporary measure. That is the negative side of this serious structural problem which confronts apple and pear producers in Australia, particularly in the export States. The situation is not as bad in New South Wales because producers there do not depend on exports to any extent and they are able to absorb their production within the State and within the Australian Capital Territory. 
The positive side, which we always prefer to emphasise, is the need for adjustment within the industry, which has been recommended consistently in Industries Assistance Commission reports and which has been avoided consistently by the Government. I am not suggesting that we need a radical and expensive policy of wholesale transfer of people out of those areas of production which are not viable. As a former orchardist myself I have great respect for the ability of orchardists to make adjustments in their operations to fit future market prospects. Over a period of time producers will undoubtedly tend to modify their production to market trends. This is much more difficult for some fruit growers than for people in other avenues of primary production because of the time lag and the capital investment involved between planting a tree and when it becomes productive. Sometimes eight or ten years elapse before that takes place. The pome fruit producer cannot operate on a short-term cycle. Nevertheless a self-regulating process is taking place each year, just by the relationship between the extent of new plantings and old plantings which cease to be commercially viable. If new plantings virtually cease for a few years or are substantially reduced at some time in the future as markets expand a shortage can be expected. 
I am not suggesting a wholesale pulling out of trees. There is evidence already that this selfregulating process is taking place in some States. The tree pull scheme has hastened this process to some extent but the tree pull scheme distorts this process when young trees are pulled rather than old trees. Further modification is going on in respect to new varieties and changing consumer demands. It is well know that some varieties, particularly the red delicious variety, usually sell at a premium, which virtually eliminates the need for a stabilisation fund. It is also well known within the industry that Asian markets tend to prefer sweeter varieties of apples rather than the more tart flavour preferred by European markets. Unfortunately, sometimes these varieties with preferred flavours lack the handling and keeping qualities of less popular varieties. It then becomes the responsibility of government to see that our research facilities such as the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, with its plant breeding and other technical resources such as cold storage research resources, are given the necessary financial resources to solve these technological problems. The time taken to do this will depend upon the amount of resources which we are prepared to put into it. 
Other techniques, such as the move to hedgerow planting, undoubtedly reduce labour costs in the orchard and place our producers in a better position to compete. New cold storage techniques extend the shelf life of export fruit after it is taken out of cold storage. All these developments are on-going processes. I believe that our growers are not backward in adopting new techniques. By world standards they are quite up to date. These processes are shared by producers and government to bring the industry to a viable position in relation to its competitors in overseas markets and to keep its products within reach of the domestic consumer. Undoubtedly fruit exporters will receive some benefit from the Government's devaluation decision, but this should not be overstated as obviously any increase in gross receipts is offset significantly by increases in freight charges, by equivalent increases in the costs of imported inputs such as chemical sprays, wrapping material and imported orchard machinery, not to mention the continuing effect of inflation fed by the devaluation decision. As I pointed out earlier, all of these changes take time to develop and emerge. We believe that in the meantime fruitgrowers are entitled to sympathetic consideration and support by Government to maintain reasonable living standards. To my personal knowledge fruit growers are not people who traditionally look for Government handouts as a long term solution to their problems. In fact, by the very nature of their occupation they are independent and resourceful people who prefer to stand on their own feet but there are circumstances which prevail today which justify special consideration and our amendment merely acknowledges these special circumstances. I believe that the latest market intelligence which I have received regarding apples and pears is in fact much more optimistic than at this time last year. 
I will tell you why. The indications are that world supplies of apples and pears are considerably lower than they were last year- no doubt this is due to climatic conditions in some of the bigger producing countries- and that the market is much more buoyant with expectations of higher prices for Australian exports this season quite high. 
Tasmanian members, as well as members from other apple and pear export States, will undoubtedly be pleased to know that all State grower organisations have, I believe, indicated within the last 24 hours that they fully support the proposed amendment which has been moved by the Labor Party. The vulnerable position of the export States as shown in a table in the report of the Industries Assistance Commission indicates that in New South Wales where growers are not dependent on export markets the average net farm income of the large apple and pear farms in 1974-75 was $10,5 13. At the other end of the scale the average in Tasmania was only $954. This was a projection, a forecast. In Western Australia the average was $3,031. In South Australia it was $4,424 and in Queensland $3,845. It is quite obvious that the growers in these States are in a very vulnerable situation and they need support. I appeal particularly to honourable members like the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck),  who represents a significant number of fruit producers, the honourable member for Forrest  (Mr Drummond),  the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  and the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  not to miss the opportunity to support this amendment to increase the subsidy to $3 for apples and $1.20 for pears so as to give the producers in their electorates some relief from the crippling financial burdens under which they are attempting to survive. I recommend the amendment to the House. 
Is the Minister for Primary Industry concerned that meat exporters are continuing to increase their profits while beef producers' returns are still deplorably low? Is the Minister aware that Anderson Meat Industries Ltd, which had a profit increase of over 100 per cent in 1 975, recently announced a further increase of 39 per cent in profits for 1976? Is the Minister concerned that some exporting firms use stock from their own properties to manipulate the market to the detriment of other producers? In view of these considerations, will the Minister consider a full-scale government inquiry into meat marketing in Australia which has been suggested by some producer organisations and which may lead to measures to curb the exploitation of beef producers by meat processors? 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General. I refer to the continued criticism by chief magistrates in the Australian Capital Territory of the Government's failure to introduce law reform in the Australian Capital Territory in respect of 2 matters. The first is the Government's failure to amend breathalyser laws. This was criticised on 1 1 February. The second matter, referred to yesterday, is the Government's failure to introduce an ordinance approved last December by the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly relating to giving independent statutory office to magistrates. I ask: Why has the Government failed to act in these urgent matters and why is it giving such a low priority to law reform in the Australian Capital Territory? 
I am very pleased to join my colleague, the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  and the honourable member for Canberra  (Mr Haslem)  in taking part in this debate. I find it really hard to believe that, after responsible government has been in existence for so long in this country and after the democratic battles of the past, which went on for so long in this country and in other countries, we now have to start all over again and start fighting for the same basic democratic rights involving something like 300 000 Australian citizens. I find it hard to believe that people are now saying to me: 'Do we have to go back and start arguing that there should be no taxation without representation'. I think it is a fair enough argument. It was an argument which was the basis of our representation over 100 years ago in Australia- in the 1840s and in the 1850s- when we secured a measure of selfgovernment and, of course, the question was behind the great struggle in America for independence. They won that battle 200 years ago; we won it 100 years ago. 
There is now a group of people whom I can only describe as political troglodytes or power hungry legal eagles who seek to turn the clock back and play petty politics with people's basic rights, people who for the sake of some cheap political advantage, for the sake of influencing a referendum result are prepared to deny basic rights to or disenfranchise 300 000 Australian citizens. We are not going to take it. We have been pushed around a lot in the last couple of years and I can assure the people who are interested in that exercise that the people of the Australian Capital Territory will not sit back and take kindly this attempt to deny them their rights. They will be out in the streets if necessary. They will be over at this Parliament House demanding their rights as have the people of Australia throughout history. It is turning the clock back in a most shameful way and we are not going to stand for it. 
The basis of our representation is quite plainly spelled out to the layman. There does not seem to be any doubt at all. People have heard section 122 of the Constitution repeated  ad nauseum.  I again repeat it: 
The Parliament may make laws for the government of any territory surrendered by any State . . . and may allow the representation of such territory in either House of the Parliament to the extent and on the terms which it thinks fit. 
There is nothing ambiguous about that. It is quite clear. What I contend is based on a plain reading of the Constitution. If we have any doubt about what the founding fathers' intentions were we do not have to look very far. I go back to the 1890s to quote Alfred Deakin who was one of our most famous founding fathers and one of the wisest, I believe. He said: 
We should seek to erect a constitutional edifice which shall be a guarantee of liberty and union for all time to come to the whole people of this continent . . . 
Most of the debate about the Constitution these days is about State rights or about federalism. But the founding fathers were concerned with the people and that is why Alfred Deakin refers to 'liberty and union for all time to come to the whole people of this continent'. If our Constitution does not protect the people in their basic rights it is time we had a Bill of Rights which did protect them. As I said, the debate has not been about individuals rights; it has been about State rights and about Federal powers. I think we have to start interpreting the Constitution more in terms of the rights of the individual and if it is deficient it is time that we wrote something into it or adopted a Bill of Rights which would cover these things. Alfred Deakin went on to say: 
Wherever we can detect a Federal interest or power we should provide for it in advance, without waiting for public clamour or the long agitation leading up to an amendment of the situation. We should provide in advance for all conceivable Federal contingencies, strengthen the Federal Government and trust the Federal Parliament to use its powers wisely. 
I think we tried to do that. There is one thing that worries me about legal aid for the representatives of the Territories. I must say that I was very pleased at the decision, announced this afternoon, to give the Territorial representatives legal aid. It has always been in our minds that the Government which will be going in to defend the validity of the Act which provides for our representation is made up of the same people, the same parties, who opposed the legislation most vigorously in 1974. Those people fought tooth and nail against Territorial representation in the Senate. Of course, it was only by holding a joint sitting of both Houses that we were able to succeed in gaining that representation. The people who opposed that proposition are now saying that they will defend the laws of the Commonwealth. I hope they do. I feel more confident in the knowledge that the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  is allowing the representatives concerned to have their own counsel at the High Court hearing. I appreciate that. 
I think most people are aware that the first representative for the Australian Capital Territory in the Federal Parliament was  Dr Nott.  He was here for a short time, and then the people of the Australian Capital Territory were represented by the late Jim Fraser who served them with great distinction for about 20 years. He set a very high standard of service to the people of Canberra- a standard which my colleagues and I have found very difficult to emulate. He looked after the people of Canberra extremely well indeed and he set a standard which was greatly appreciated by them. Representation for the people of the Australian Capital Territory came about by a deputation led by  Sir Robert  Garran, who was the only surviving member of the founding fathers at that time, going soon after the Second World War to the Prime Minister,  Mr Curtin,  and pressing the case for such representation. That deputation pointed out that that is what the Constitution had intended. It was as a result of that approach that representation was granted. I do not know of anybody now who would doubt the need for such representation in Canberra. I am sure that the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Staley)  would not like to receive all the representations that are made to the honourable member for Canberra, the 2 senators representing the Australian Capital Territory, and myself. I am sure that he would not want to see the documentation landed on his desk. He gets enough of them landed on his desk now after they have filtered through our offices. 
We have to face up to the fact that we have no State government representation in Canberra; we have only an emerging local government which does not have any real powers at this stage. So the only real power that the people of the Australian Capital Territory have is through their elected representatives in this Parliament. They avail themselves of the services of those representatives quite freely, and I think that they get a reasonably good service. It would be quite unacceptable if the people of Canberra and the people of the Northern Territory were suddenly to have that service completely removed. To do so would leave them open to abuse by greedy professional people who wanted to amass for themselves huge profits at the expense of the people, and through arbitrary bureaucratic decisions from which they would have no recourse at all. 
As the honourable member for Canberra pointed out, the people of the Territories are mostly people who lived originally in the States. When those people arrive in the Territory they are not asked to give up the rights they have enjoyed in other parts of the Commonwealth; and why should they? They are no different from anybody else. 
Let us look at the degree of representation in the various parts of the Commonwealth. I have heard people say that we are over-represented because we have 2 members of the House of Representatives, 2 senators and 18 elected members of the Legislative Assembly. There is one elected representative in Canberra for approximately every 6000 electors or people on the electoral roll. None of the States comes anywhere near that small degree of representation. The smallest degree of representation is to be found in New South Wales which has one elected person for every 1182 electors. Let us look at the situation in the States which have the smallest populations and which squeal about the situation. I refer to Tasmania, Queensland and Western Australia where the position is even worse than that of New South Wales. Tasmania has one elected representative for every 480 electors. Western Australia has one elected representative for every 387 electors. As I said, the position here is that we have one elected representative for every 6000 electors. Yet this man from Western Australia wants to deprive us even of that amount of representation, when in his State there is one elected representative for every 387 electors. In Queensland- our friend, the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  should listen to this- there is one elected person for every 791 electors. I repeat that we have one elected representative for almost every 6000 electors. So let us not hear any of this nonsense about our being overrepresented. 
The people should also be made aware that the politicians in the States, who are using this challenge as a cheap political device by which to gain some political advantage and possibly to influence the results of the referendum, are using taxpayers' money. Some of that money has been collected from the people of Canberra who pay their taxes just the same as anybody else. That money is being used for the purpose of making a phoney legal challenge to the rights of the people of Canberra. I can assure those political troglodytes, as I call them, and legal eagles who seek to deprive the people of the Australian Capital Territory of their rights that we will not take such a challenge lying down. We have been pushed around long enough by the policies of this Government. The people are not in the mood to have taken from them rights which have been hard won after years and years of struggle. As I have said, I am sure that the people of Canberra will be prepared to speak up for themselves and will demand that those people who seek to take away their rights justify their actions, if they can do that. Of course, such people never can do that. 
I agree with the view expressed by the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  when he said that people are getting fed up with the cheap political posturing that goes on between the States and the Commonwealth, the lack of principle which underlies their actions, the complete disregard for basic human rights, and the concentration on some cheap temporary political gain at the expense of other people. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice, on 9 March 1 977: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to a report appearing in the  Canberra Times  of 1 1 December 1976 that  Mr Neil  Macphillamy, a Canberra solicitor, has been appointed a director of the Commonwealth Brickworks Ltd: if so, is the report correct. 
Is the company wholly owned by the Commonwealth. 
Can he say whether  Mr Macphillamy  is a prominent member of the Liberal Party. 
Is it considered that any conflict of interest could occur between  Mr Macphillamy  's private interests and those of the company. 
Is it a fact that the company is to be sold to a consortia of competitors in Canberra and New South Wales. 
If so, what are the terms of the sale of the company to the consortia and what companies and persons are represented in the consortia. 
What is the present value of assets and liabilities of the company and what profits have been earned in each of the last 5 years. 
8 ) What action is being taken to protect the rights of the employees of the company. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
1 ) How many scientists in the Plant Industry Division of CSIRO are employed in the field generally referred to as genetic engineering. 
What funds were provided for this work in the 1976-77 Budget. 
How much is expected to be provided in the 1977-78 Budget. 
How long is it estimated it will be before the benefits of this work will have any effect on primary production in Australia. 
In what particular areas of primary production are benefits expected. 
Can the Minister say how the CSIRO's progress in genetic engineering techniques compares with the achievements in other countries. 
I refer the Minister for Foreign Affairs to a reply he gave to a question on notice asked by the Leader of the Opposition last year concerning a visit which he made to Bali in September 1 975. In the reply the Minister referred to discussions with 2 Indonesian officials,  Mr Harry  Tjan and  Mr Lim  Bian Kie. I now ask the Minister: Did he convey to those gentlemen, firstly, that  President  Suharto was regarded as a wise statesman and was much admired by the Liberal leadership which gave high priority to relations with Indonesia; secondly, that it was planned to deny supply to the Whitlam Government in November 1975, which would probably lead to the fall of the Government and that the present Minister would then become foreign minister; thirdly, that if that happened the new Government would not obstruct Indonesia in its takeover of Timor and that the Minister hoped Indonesia would act swiftly and efficiently? Finally, would it be true to say that as a result of the Minister's discussions with these 2 gentlemen the Indonesian generals were able to overcome objections - 
I rise today to speak on a matter which has been of great concern to me, to many of my colleagues and, I believe, to most Australians. I refer to the tragic disaster wrought upon the people of East Timor by the Indonesian armed forces which stand condemned in the eyes of the world including the United Nations. There have been recent allegations of massive atrocities and these have compounded the basic fears we have all had since that fateful morning in December 1 975- a morning when a despicable chapter was written in blood in the history of our region, a morning when tanks, guns and bombardment served as the curtain upon the basic rights of a people to self-determination. What troubles me greatly is how this invasion so close to our shores was allowed to occur. What policy failures in our approach to the East Timor question perhaps contributed to or failed to prevent such a drastic and brutal act of aggression? 
Earlier this month I received information from a source which I believe to be credible and accurate. In this information are several charges which disturb me a great deal. The information I have received concerns the visit of  Mr Peacock  to Bali between 24 and 28 September 1975.  Mr 
Peacock was then the Opposition shadow Minister for Foreign Affairs. Last year  Mr Peacock  referred to his visit in answer to question No. 488 by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam). Mr Whitlam  asked: 
1 ) On which dates did he visit Bali during 1 975? 
With which officials or advisers of the Indonesian Government did he have discussions on any of those dates? 
And  Mr Peacock  replied: 
My wife and I visited Bali from 24-28 September 1975. 
To the second question he replied: 
The only officials or advisers of the Indonesian Government with whom I had any contact during the visit were  Mr Lim  Bian Kie and  Mr Harry  Tjan who were at the airport when we arrived.  Mr Lim  Bian Kie is private secretary to General Ali Murtopo,  Chairman  of the Centre for Strategic and International Studies, and  Mr Tjan  is a member of the staff of the Centre for Strategic and International Studies. We also saw them again later the same day. No other discussions were held during the remaining portion of our visit. 
It must be noted that  Mr Harry  Tjan and  Mr Lim  Bian Kie are closely associated with General Ali Murtopo, the architect of the act of butchery in East Timor. What is of deep concern to me is what was the subject matter of the discussion  Mr Peacock  had with  Mr Tjan  and  Mr Kie  on 24 September. The information received by me discloses that  Mr Peacock,  the then shadow Minister for Foreign Affairs, said to the 2 Indonesian officials the following: 
A Liberal Government would not complain about Indonesian incorporation of East Timor. 
The Australian Liberal Party gave highest priority to relations with Indonesia. 
Suharto was a wise statesman and much admired by the Liberal leadership. 
He hoped Indonesia would act swiftly and efficiently. 
He also said that it was planned to block Supply shortly and that the Whitlam Government would probably fall and that he,  Mr Peacock,  would then become Foreign Minister. The information I have received states that it was this information by the then shadow Minister that was used to persuade  President  Suharto to agree to an invasion of East Timor. It is argued that  President  Suharto had held out against the other more hawkish generals. This was due to the promise that  President  Suharto had made to the then Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  at Wonosobo in 1974 and at Townsville in 1975, that Indonesia would not militarily intervene in East Timor. I believe that these allegations concerning the activities of the Minister in Bali on 24 September 1975 require a detailed examination. My own close contact with the tragic events of that time lead me to believe that the information 
I have received is correct. I ask: Are any documents held by the Department of Foreign Affairs which support the view I have given of the Minister's discussions in Bali? If so, they should be tabled in the Parliament. I raise these matters in the spirit of seeking the truth. We all have little to be proud of in relation to East Timor. However, if we can finally get to the centre of how this terrible tragedy occurred, we can hopefully prevent this ever eventuating again. The very grave questions which hang over this matter concern me greatly. Did the Minister say these things and did he, in effect, give the green light to the Indonesians to invade Timor? 
I shall be fairly brief but I want to speak particularly about our involvement in East Africa, about which very little has been said and about which any mention was notably absent from the recent speech by the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  on foreign policy. The Labor Government went to considerable pains to develop relations with East Africa and we made some very significant contributions there about which I want to speak, but unfortunately the present Government tends to be turning the clock back on the small advance that we made. Generally placing the new aid bureau directly under the control of the Department of Foreign Affairs introduces the opportunity of making aid an instrument or a weapon of foreign policy. This is the thing that really concerns me. 
Under the old system the Government had to make the decision. Under the Labor Government when we had a separate aid agency the aid agency could put up a point of view, the Department of Foreign Affairs could put up a point of view and the Government made the decision. They may have been quite conflicting points of view. I think it was quite appropriate that the decision was up to the politicians. But now we have a situation in which it is not at all certain that a separate point of view of the aid agency will come to the Government. It will tend to be subsumed into the foreign policy point of view. It will be argued within foreign policy but may never be seen by the eyes of the Government. The Government will have the foreign policy point of view to look at and will not be able to make the same sort of balanced decision that it could have made under the old arrangements. 
I believe also that there is a tendency within the Department of Foreign Affairs to see money which is budgeted for aid programs as money which is not available for defence programs and for foreign affairs programs. I suggest that money spent on aid is much more conducive to the peace and future welfare of this nation than money spent on defence in many respects. I would like to quote very briefly an author for whom I have great respect,  Mr Malcolm  Booker, who recently produced a book called  The Last Domino.  He says in his introduction: 
A realistic foreign policy is not an unscrupulous or unprincipled one. 
That is an interesting statement when applied to our sorry record in Timor. He continued: 
Genuine goodwill between peoples is one of the few elements making for international stability. 
Of course that is what aid is all about. Genuine aid programs produce genuine goodwill between people of different nations and make for international stability. He goes on to say: 
The more vulnerable the country the more it needs such goodwill and if it sacrifices it by intolerant or fraudulent policies it will find itself without friends when it needs them most. Any aggressive government must still persuade its people that a war into which they are being led is a just one, and it is easier for it to attack a country which can be presented as morally deficient. 
I think that these are very wise words. What  Mr Booker,  who is a Foreign Affairs diplomat of 35 years experience, is saying is that our best defence is to develop good relations with our neighbours, particularly with the developing countries with whom we have an opportunity to develop good relations through aid programs. I would like to see that emphasis continue but I have no confidence that, under the present policies and by the way in which the Government has reacted in situations such as Timor, this sort of policy will be pursued even though it is one recommended by a very experienced diplomat who is generally considered to be a conservative diplomat and not a radical one. 
I believe that in placing the Bureau within the Department of Foreign Affairs the Government is making it more difficult for the public to be made aware of the reasons behind aid decisions. As we well know, the Department of Foreign Affairs is normally one of the most secretive departments. This secrecy will tend to stifle public debate, and the Australian community will not be aware of the policies from which Australia's aid programs emanate. Development assistance should not only be removed but should be seen to be removed from foreign policy influences. The best way to do this is to have a strongly independent and autonomous aid administration such as the Australian Development Assistance Agency. I agree with that part of the Minister's second reading speech in which he said that effective administration of our foreign policy requires that officers concerned with aid should be given opportunities to make an appropriate input into thinking about our foreign relations as well as being fully conscious of the manner in which those relations bear upon their responsibilities. Our aid organisation was developing those skills. It was reaching the stage where it could make positive contributions to our policy. But now the career structure has been broken down and severely stifled. It is interesting to recall that on 10 February this year the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  in speaking about the new international economic order, said: 
Governments that purport to give aid but do so in the form of tied loans are in reality providing an indirect subsidy to their own industries. If all the developed countries had followed the lead provided by the Australia-Papua New Guinea relationship the enormous Third World debt burden would not have emerged. If our lead were followed now the magnitude of the debt problem would be substantially diminished. 
It is disturbing therefore that the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  in a major address at Swinburne College last November announced that the Government is looking at using some aid money for loans to developing countries as trade credits. Loans not only add to the debt burden of developing countries but also give an incorrect picture of the amount of aid given by donor countries as the repayments of the loan go straight back into Consolidated Revenue while the loan itself is shown in the Budget as aid. It is also rather alarming to see that the Government intends using the aid budget for trade credits. It seems that this Bill indicates not only the absorption of the Australian Development Assistance Agency back into the Department of Foreign Affairs but that its operations will now be highly influenced by the Department of Overseas Trade as well. 
With the increasing solidarity of the Third World and the strengthening and acceptance of concepts inherent in the 'new international economic order' donor countries which subvert their aid programs for short term diplomatic benefit over long term development objectives will become increasingly isolated and subject to international derision. 
I now want to refer to our aid projects in East Africa. I had the opportunity of making a short visit there last year. One of the most lasting impressions on my memory of that visit was the tremendous impact of the village well program in Tanzania which was initiated by the Australian Labor Party Government and which I hope is still proceeding. The people who came from the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation were great ambassadors for Australia. As soon as one mentioned one came from Australia the people would say: 'They are the people putting down our village well'. The village well is the lynch pin of the program for bringing people into the villages. The governments want to give them health care and education but cannot do so unless they can get water to start a hygiene program. Water is the focal point for the village. These programs are very impressive, very important but they are not very expensive. They involve the local people. Our men go in, take their shirts off and work with the local people. They train the Tanzanians to operate the wells and to install the wells themselves. It is a very rewarding aid project. 
What concerns me is whether, if we were asked to provide that sort of aid to a country such as Mozambique which is not a former Commonwealth country and which has a marxist government, our Department of Foreign Affairs would agree to devote $ 1 m for a village well program in Mozambique. I suggest that it would not agree. I hope that it would but certainly there is no indication that it would agree. When I was there the Mozambique government officials were most insistent that they would accept aid from any country but they would not accept tied aid irrespective or whether it came from China, Russia or anywhere else. These countries all maintained that they had non-aligned foreign policies irrespective of whether their governments were socialist, marxist, military dictatorships or anything else. What I am suggesting is that the aid which we normally provide on a needs basis may now be subsumed in political considerations of whether a political regime fits our vision of what a legitimate government should be. We may now make political decisions which do not consider the real needs of the people and the way in which we can help them. 
The ground water project in Tanzania is proceeding. I understand that more money is wanted now to keep it going. It has been very valuable. The program requires an additional 135 pump sets- diesel pumps and windmills- to be installed over a 3-year period. It requires an additional Australian technical officer to supervise and train Tanzanian crews in the installation and maintenance of pump sets, the existing training program to be extended for a minimum of 2 years, and 3 project awards to be provided for training in the planning and logistical aspects of drilling programs. This is the way in which we can really help people to create an infrastructure around which very rewarding programs can be built. 
These people do not want handouts of food. They do not want our surplus wheat, milk powder or anything else. They do not even want our livestock. They want the technical knowhow to develop their own livestock. They want to be able to establish research farms. They want geneticists to set up breeding programs so that they can develop their own productivity and not be dependent on food imports from other countries. I suggest that that should be the direction of our aid. We should be developing stronger relations with African countries. I was very disappointed to find that in the 40 independent nations in black Africa the Australian Government has representatives in only four of them. In other countries we have no presence at all. Those countries know nothing about Australia. 
It is significant to note also that wherever we have developed aid programs and have established a presence through our high commissioners we have also developed trade. Such countries tend to trade with those countries which help them. They do not necessarily trade with the cheapest supplier. They develop very close and friendly relations with those countries which seek to supply aid, on an infrastructure basis, without strings. I should like to suggest that we should pursue those sorts of projects. If we did we would win many friends in black Africa. There are 1000 million people living around the Indian Ocean. Traditionally we have looked across the Pacific towards America or to the north towards South East Asia. Of course, South East Asia also is an extremely important area. However, I think that we should be looking further to the west across the Indian Ocean. Those countries are coming much closer to us. They look upon us as being a source of great resources and a source of technical aid, and we should embrace the opportunity of contributing to their progress. 
The other thing that concerns me about the Minister's second reading speech is the suggestion that the private sector should become more involved in the aid program. He did not indicate just how that involvement should take shape, nor did he indicate the reason why that added to the force of the argument that the Australian Development Assistance Agency should be incorporated in the Department of Foreign Affairs. I do not see any reason why the private sector could not be involved just as effectively or possibly even more effectively if the ADAA had been retained. I understand that the private sector had already been considerably involved. It always has to be considered, of course, that the private sector is legitimately concerned with the profit motive, but that does not disqualify its involvement in aid programs. I am not against the suggestion in principle but I just make the point that it should not be used as an argument for the incorporation of the ADAA into the Department of Foreign Affairs. The further involvement of the private sector could have been carried out just as effectively under the old program. 
I do not want to say anything further in the debate, except to reiterate the point that the writings of  Mr Booker  have very strong appeal for me. He says that we cannot hope to defend our country militarily; in many ways it would be quite beyond our means to do so. He says that it would be a much more effective contribution, both to the development of the third world countries and to our own security, if we were to concentrate on developing friendly relations with those countries. One can see from the extent of our defence budget and our aid budget that that policy has not been followed in the past by any means whatever. I would like to see a shift in our policy away from token expenditure on military hardware, which is terribly expensive, and a substantial move towards establishing constructive aid programs such as that which we have in Tanzania. By doing so we will be building long lasting bridges with the new developing countries of the Third World. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice, on 10 March 1977: 
1 ) What are the total net assets of the Foundation for Youth. 
) Over what period has this money been accumulated. 
Precisely when is it planned to utilise these assets for the purpose for which the money was raised . 
What is the proposed location and estimated cost of any Youth Foundation building project under consideration. 
What basic amenities and facilities will such a project provide. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 3 1 March 1 977: 
1 ) Did the A.C.T. Electricity Authority state in paragraph 5.2. 1 . on page 6 1 of its Environmental Impact Statement on the North Canberra 1 32 kv Sub-transmission Development and Extension to Ainslie/Kingston that little information is available on native mammals in the area. 
Has his attention been drawn to the fact that a wealth of information is available and that the Department of the Capital Territory published a booklet in 1976 on the mammals etc. in the Ainslie-Majura Reserve. 
Is it a fact that environmental impact statements presented to the public for comment by Commonwealth instrumentalities are considered to be drafts and no serious attempt is made to present a finished statement. 
If so, is he satisfied with this situation. 
I want to speak very briefly in support of the Agricultural Tractors Bounty Amendment Bill and of my colleague the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young).  Before doing so I must say that I agree entirely with the commendation of the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  of the principle of the bounty. There is no doubt at all that it is a preferable way of adding support to our industry to many of the other methods. It is open. One knows what is going on. But, above all, it is flexible and it can be amended and altered to fit changing patterns within a particular industry. That is what is happening in this case. 
We commend the Government for the way in which it is harmonising the changes in the bounty to fit in with the changing patterns of demand within the industry. The basic changes, of course, are that the reduction of the bounty will be at one per cent instead of 1.5 per cent for each percentage drop in local content. More importantly, the reduction will start from a 100 per cent local content rather than the 90 per cent situation under the old arrangement. So there is now a greater incentive to keep the content at 100 per cent, which rather extends the incentive in that direction. 
The honourable member for Port Adelaide referred to the justification for the request by manufacturers for a freeze in their bounty in view of the present policies of the Government. On reading the proposition I think it is virtually frozen for 3 years. They will get plenty of notice of change. The change will take place over one 2-year period and then a further 3-year period. So there will not be a sudden change. The industry will have plenty of time to adapt itself to the proposed changes. 
Another interesting aspect of the Bill is that it provides for indexation of the bounty to take account of changes in import prices. That indicates that the Government is acknowledging in this Bill the harmful effects of devaluation in feeding inflation into rural sector inputs. Farmers realise very well that, although they get an immediate benefit from devaluation in the form of a more rapid gross return for their produce, at the other end of the scale they have to pay for it. It is now becoming apparent how the bad effects of devaluation work against the rural industry. Of course at the other end some of the customers for our export products are now tending to threaten retaliation for our devaluation by putting up barriers against some of our rural exports to their countries. So it is not all pluses for the rural sector when we have a devaluation. The minuses are starting to come home to roost. 
One of the most interesting features of this subsidy is the multinational relationship of the 2 companies concerned. Of course, we know that the Chamberlain company is still an Australian company, although only just. I understand that it had some amalgamation arrangement with the John Deere company, which is a multinational company, and that John Deere now owns 49 per cent of that company. The other company- the Harvester company- is, of course, a 100 per cent multinational company. If one looks at their profit situation one finds that, as is usual with multinational companies, they never make any money in Australia. A multinational company has the means at its disposal to fiddle with the cost of the import content of its product so that it does not make a profit and its profit is taken at some other stage or in some other country. This presents quite a problem for Australia in relation to agricultural machinery manufacture because, although it is mostly based on local production and mainly based on the wheat industry, we do have opportunities from time to time to develop export markets. 
There is some reference in the report of the Industries Assistance Commission to there having been exports to some Asian and African countries. One of the sad facts is that quite often when an Australian trade commissioner succeeds in getting an order for an Australian tractor or what one thinks is an Australian tractor one finds that the multinational company concerned redirects the order to some other country where it can be bought a bit cheaper. This is a problem that has been mentioned to me when I have been overseas talking to our trade commissioners in undeveloped countries. Perhaps some technique should be developed whereby these countries can specify that they want an Australian tractor, which may have features that appeal to them or suit their conditions of operation. They should insist that it comes from Australia because quite often they are responding to aid programs that we provide to those countries. The price is not everything to them. For the sake of reciprocating they would like to do business with Australia but, because of the multinational set-up the business is directed away from Australia. 
The honourable member for Port Adelaide referred to the problem of the scale of operation, as did the honourable member for Wakefield. I understand that, as a rule, the average tractor production operation is at least 10 times greater than the scale of operation in Australia. Of course it will be a long time before we overcome this aspect of the problem, if we ever do. I suppose the compensating factor, if there is any, is that the smaller operation tends to be more labour intensive and less automated. A good comparison is our car industry and the car industry in Japan. We intend to employ more skilled and semi-skilled people per unit than another country which is producing the same sort of product in a highly automated situation. 
The quality of the product has been referred to, particularly in the IAC report. I should like to make a couple of comments about that. In terms of servicing, availability of spare parts and certainly in some technical aspects of our local product we score some pretty handsome pluses, which is natural. The product is designed to suit our particular conditions and it should be more adaptable than other makes. At the same time, there are a couple of pretty prominent minuses. One concerns safety. It seems to be the practice in 
Australia to buy the safety cabin from a different manufacturer and separate from the purchase of the tractor. Then it has to be adapted to fit the model. This would tend to add to the cost of the unit. Perhaps manufacturers should be looking to produce a wider range of safety cabins for their own product so that people do not have to go to another source. The more important matter I want to mention is the lack of comfort in the Australian tractors. This is often referred to. Certainly there seems to be a growing demand for more consideration of this aspect. It is high time that this came about. Why should a farmer, because he happens to be on the land, put up with sitting on a very rough tractor for hours and hours on end, probably doing permanent damage to his health? 
That is a very good move but there is still room for improvement. A lot of ex-farmers come to live in Canberra. Half of them have worn out discs in their back because of sitting on tractors for hours and hours. More attention should be given to the safety, comfort and health of the operator. Driving a tractor is a bit like shearing. All shearers are not as robust as my colleague, the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young).  He survived during the shearing period. 
He goes to a physiotherapist every year. More comfort has been introduced to the shearing industry. I do not know to what extent. Certainly comfort is something that should be looked at more closely. More attention should be given to insulation from both weather and noise, perhaps even to air-conditioning and to devices to relieve monotony. Some tractors even have provision for playing tapes. It may sound a bit far fetched, but I do not think it is. Why should people in that situation have to work in less comfortable conditions than people in other industries. I commend moves towards a more comfortable and safer tractor. 
Generally we tend to think that the future of the tractor industry is very closely tied to the wheat industry. This is fair enough, particularly in Western Australia; but a note of warning should be sounded here. While the prospects for wheat are reasonably good, we should take note of the fact that most developing countries do not want to buy our wheat. They want to grow their own grain, whatever it may be. Perhaps we should be paying more attention to the prospects of exporting tractors to third world developing countries. I do not think this is pursued very strongly by this Government. As I have mentioned before, there are something like 40 new independent states in Africa and we have representation in only four of them. Wherever we have representation we have been able to develop trade in farm machinery. Conditions in some of these countries are very comparable with ours, and our machinery has great appeal to them. We should be pursuing the possibility of exporting farm machinery. We have greater possibilities for expanding trade in these areas than is generally recognised. Previously we have tended to look at them as outlets for our primary products. We have to forget about that because they do not want handouts of wheat or other grain. They want the technology to be able to grow their own, and we can play a valuable role. Apart from these few features, there is some future for the tractor industry in Australia. We should continue our flexible approach to the terms of bounties which may be adapted from time to time to fit in with changes that are taking place in the industry. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Peter  Johnson) adjourned. 
I address my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer the Minister to the question I asked him on 31 March 1977 regarding his meeting in Bali with 2 senior Indonesian officials. I ask the Minister: Did he state in answer to my question that the meeting in Bali took place without his prior knowledge? I also ask: In the light of the report of the secret telegram between  Mr Woolcott  and  Mr Renouf,  will the Minister again state that this meeting was arranged without his knowledge? As the Minister did not refer to his own notes taken at the meeting in his reply to my previous question, I ask the Minister: When did he recall that he had made such notes? Finally, will the Minister make a statement to this House on his meeting in Bali and on the grave issues that have been raised about that meeting following the publication during the last 3 days of important documents concerning the meeting? 
I refer the Minister for Foreign Affairs to an answer he gave to a question asked by me yesterday and to a cable from Singapore which he tabled at the conclusion of his answer. Did the Minister ask the Australian High Commissioner at Singapore to speak to the Indonesian Ambassador at Singapore about the arrangements the latter had made for his visit to Bali in September 1975? Also, was the Minister correctly quoted by the  National Times  on Sunday when it was stated that he said that: 
He kept his own record of conversation and his wife was present and would support him on this and that there were other cabled communications that refute the allegations. 
Will the Minister table his record of conversation and the other cabled communications he referred to, and will he tell the House precisely what his wife is prepared to say about the discussions at Bali? 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 24 March 1977: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to a report on the Australian Broadcasting Commission on Sunday 20 March 1 977, that the Shire of Yarrowlumla, New South Wales, has been unable to obtain any grant of funds for the Youth Community Employment Scheme; if so, is the report accurate. 
How many projects have been approved under the Scheme. 
What (a) sum has been spent, (b) has been the value, (c) has been the location and (d) is the name of the administering authority of each project. 
I am pleased to support my colleague the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  in this matter of public importance which relates to the reduction and delays in services to the public caused by Public Service staff ceilings. It is a very serious matter to the people of Canberra- both the public and the people working in the Public Service- but I certainly do not want to confine my remarks to the Australian Capital Territory because the problems which have been created are widespread. They are not restricted to Canberra. After listening to the Minister for Productivity  (Mr Macphee)  I am sure that neither the public nor the public servants will get any satisfaction from the platitudes expressed by the Minister who was representing the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Public Service Matters (  Mr Street). 
Nor will we get any satisfaction from the sorts of answers which the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  gave in another place today. She was asked about this problem and she used terms like 'negotiations are proceeding'. She said she hoped the negotiations would resolve staffing problems and that the Government was looking at ways of re-organising staff rather than getting more staff. These are just platitudes. They mean nothing. The Minister said she was very concerned that members of the staff had withdrawn certain services. If there was nothing wrong with the services we would not have need to ask these questions and we would not get these meaningless responses from the Ministers concerned. I believe that the imposition of Public Service staff ceilings by the Fraser Government soon after it took office was not only a very spiteful and vindictive act but also a very hasty and ill-advised decision in plain economic terms. 
I believe it is a decision which has had a widespread effect in exacerbating the economic ills of Australia. It ensured not only that the high standard of service which the public had come to expect from the Australian Public Service would decline, but also that opportunities for young people to undertake a worthwhile career in the Australian Public Service would be seriously diminished, while the growing list of unemployed would be swelled by the addition of thousands of young school leavers to the ranks of the unemployed. The Government's decision also ensured that Canberra, because of its degree of dependence on government expenditure, suffered more than any other place in Australia because of these misguided economic policies. Of course, the Government's action also ensured that morale in the Australian Public Service would sink to an all-time low. This has had repercussions on the quality of service extended to the public. I wonder whether the Minister will deny that morale is at an all-time low. If it is not, why are people in the Department of Social Security imposing work bans? That is an act of desperation. It is a last resort to try to correct something which has repeatedly been drawn to the attention of the government and repeatedly ignored. We have that admission in answers given in the Senate today. 
The reduction in the quality of service and the delays in the delivery of the service have been widely felt over an extensive range of services throughout the whole of Australia, even to the services traditionally available to Australians overseas. I was rather amused that the Minister should question my colleague the honourable member for Corio for not being specific. Of course, the Minister was specific about nothing. He spoke in broad generalities about the total cutback in the Public Service, about how many public servants there were, and about how many there would be at a certain date. The whole problem is the totality of the ceilings. That has caused all the problems. It is the across the board nature of the ceilings. 
If the ceilings had been applied in a more selective way I have no doubt that there would have been well justified reductions in staff in some areas and an increase in staff in other areas, brought about by an increase in our obligations because of the increasing workload due to increasing unemployment. But that is not how this was done. It was done in a very clumsy, unscientific and across the board way. It was a clean cut right across the board and it fell very unevenly on public servants. It resulted in a very uneven standard of service to the public at the receiving end. Unfortunately, the areas in which the standard of service declined most dramatically were those which were concerned most closely with dispensing welfare to people in most need such as pensioners, the sick, the handicapped people and, above all, the people who were made unemployed by the Government's ill-advised economic policy of cutting back government expenditure. 
In the area of looking after the unemployed the complaints of delays in the processing of unemployment registrations and in investigating employment prospects have been widespread and persistent right around Australia. They are still going on. I think it was inconsiderate in the extreme to expect the staff of the Commonwealth Employment Service to handle this vastly increased workload without a substantial increase in the staff. It was only very recently that this serious shortage was acknowledged, and something has been done about it. However, despite what has been done the problems have not been solved by any means. There are still grave deficiencies in the area of field service. People who are supposed to be out in the field investigating job opportunities are tied to desks interviewing people and trying to keep records up to date. The records are spectacularly out of date in most cases. It is a very disagreeable job. It is a difficult job at the best of times, but when the work load is doubled and the staff is not the job becomes impossible to perform effectively. That is the sort of situation with which the Commonwealth Employment Service has had to contend. 
In the Family Court the advantages of the new legislation have been largely negated by the failure to provide adequate staff. I understand that in Parramatta the number of judges was recently increased from two to four, but there was no increase in the clerical staff. In some places in Sydney delays in the Family Court are up to 2 years, and there is a substantial backlog even in Canberra. In the field of education there is no question that the great advances made during the period of the Whitlam Government have been negated to some degree by staff ceilings in the teaching profession and by the availability of ancillary staff. In a junior college in my own electorate, fifth and sixth form students were unable to undertake any laboratory work in their science course due to lack of ancillary staff. Difficulties are still being experienced in many schools. Class sizes have tended to increase and difficulties have been experienced in providing teachers for children with language difficulties and for other disadvantaged groups. 
It is not only private citizens who have been disadvantaged by the staff ceiling. Private enterprise and business and commerce, who should be able to expect prompt responses to a wide range of inquiries for information concerning tariffs and bounties and trade prospects in overseas markets such as the European Economic Community, Scandinavia and Asia, as well as in relation to new technology in manufacturing industries, have not been able to obtain quick responses because the staff ceilings have not enabled the public servants to get on with the job. In regard to Aboriginal affairs, staff ceilings have meant that critical social and rural programs have been abandoned and urgently needed research has not been undertaken. The Australian Development Assistance Agency has lost its autonomy and has been integrated into the Department of Foreign Affairs. This has seriously weakened the independence and integrity of our role in overseas aid. 
Closer to home, there are all sorts of problems in the Department of the Capital Territory. Accounting and the collection of revenue has fallen behind. The field services and counselling services of the child welfare branch have been delayed. The standard of cleaning in the city, which in the national capital we expect to be of a high standard, has not been maintained. The Department staff's ceilings have resulted in a general lowering of the standard. 
I conclude by saying that the Government's policy has failed dismally. The idea of transferring reserves from the government to the private sector has not worked out. The Government's action in cutting back on government spending has effectively reduced consumer demand in the private sector. The Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Staley),  who is at the table, would know that manufacturing industry is now using less labour and will continue to use less labour. Sooner or later the Government must recognise that its policy has failed and that it must get back to a reasonable growth rate in the Australian Public Service. The sooner it does that the sooner economic recovery will get under way. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 23 March 1977: 
1 ) Who was the prime American contractor or contractors for the Joint Defence Space Communications Station. Woomera, South Australia, commonly known as Nurrungar. 
What was the cost of establishing the facility and what are its annual operating costs. 
What proportion of these costs has been met by the Australian Government. 
What has been the Australian industrial participation in the construction and operation of the facility. 
-On behalf of the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory I bring up the following report: 
Report on Proposals for Variations of the Plan of the Layout of the City of Canberra and its Environs- Sixty-third Series. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I ask for leave to make a short statement in connection with the report. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 23 March 1977: 
1 ) Is it a fact that certain legislation relating to piracy dating back to the time of Henry VIII still applies m the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. 
Did Attorney-General Murphy propose a new modification of laws relating to offences at sea. If so, what is the current state of work on this matter. 
What imperial and State Acts relating to offences at sea still apply in the A.C.T. and the N.T. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 23 March 1977: 
Does the Imperial Statute of Limitations 1823 still apply in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. 
If so, are there any proposals to replace this legislation taking into account the work of (a) the English Law Commission, (b) the Scottish Law Commission, (c) the New South Wales Law Reform Commission, (d) the Queensland Law Reform Commission, (e) the South Australian Law Reform Committee and  (0  the Alberta Law Reform Commission. 
If so, will the new legislation also take into account the situation arising at present where a person is prevented from bringing an action if the injury or disease suffered does not become apparent until after the expiration of the limitation period. 
Will he consider referring the subject of limitations of actions to the Law Reform Commission for investigation and report. 
Did the Minister for Primary Industry tell Queensland cattle producers at Rockhampton recently that their action in withholding cattle from the Gracemere sale yards was shortsighted, foolish and not conductive to any long term improvements in the beef producers' position? Were not the producers who were withholding their cattle simply acting on his Leader's advice of 8 March when he suggested to producers that they withhold cattle from market to force exporters to pay higher prices? Is he contradicting his Leader? If not, what is he doing? 
I support the Phosphate Fertilizers Bounty Amendment Bill, which extends the payment of the bounty on the use of phosphate for a further period of 5 years as recommended by the Industries Assistance Commission. It is inevitable that the Government will say that the Australian Labor Party has changed its mind about the bounty. Of course, this disregards the very large number of issues on which the Government has changed its mind, including the very important recent issues of the referendum in which the Government recently did a complete turnabout. However, although the Opposition does not formally oppose the Bill this does not mean that we are admitting that our previous criticism was not valid. I still think that the criticism we made of the inequitable way in which the bounty operated is still very valid. Certainly, the assistance in the form in which it has been given in the past has not been of material benefit to the majority of farmers. It has been of particular benefit to a notorious few farmers and of very little benefit to those who have been in the greatest need. It is a well known fact that those farmers at the lower end of the scale are not in a position to use superphosphate at all. 
The bounty is regressive in that the big companies and big land holders, including the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  are the people who profit most from this bounty. 
For example, the bounty has not assisted the 50 000 farmers who have left the land in the last 10 years. It can hardly be claimed that it has assisted those farmers who received on average less than $150 a year from the operation of the scheme when other measures would have been more effective. Of course, when the ALP Government moved for the removal of the bounty, farm incomes were much different from what they are now. They were at an all time high of $15,902. Average yearly earnings at the time were $6,136. In other words, average weekly earnings represented only 38.59 per cent of farm income. By 1975-76, however, the position had changed drastically. The change primarily was caused by the severe drop in farm income which in no way could be attributed to the superphosphate bounty. Farm income in dollar terms dropped to $9,194 which in real terms represented a much greater fall. By comparison, average weekly earnings rose to $8,814, still below farm income and in real terms not a substantial increase. Average weekly earnings represented 95.87 per cent of farm income for that year. These figures quite clearly support the case for a fundamental re-think of the existing measures designed to assist farmers. The existing measures are not doing what they set out to do. 
It is unfortunate that so much emphasis has been placed on the continuation of the bounty that it has hindered the formulation of alternative or supplementary policies of assistance which would provide genuine assistance to our rural industries. Farmers are fighting to maintain their viability not because in any way they can be said to be inefficient but because of the forces, especially those of the international sphere, which are continuing to dominate the economy. Farmers are aware of the diminishing terms of trade that they are fighting against and that the type of assistance offered by governments in the form of bounties on use or production have not been really significant. What has been more significant is the international market situation for Australian agricultural products. 
Since attaining office the Fraser Government has illustrated beyond any doubt that it has no special relationship with our major trading partners. Instead of the Government's promoting our agricultural products, the Australian people are confronted with the spectacle of Minister after Minister, mostly the farming Ministers and particularly the Leader of the National Country 
Party,  (Mr Anthony)  tripping overseas with the objective of selling our minerals as cheaply as they can. The significance of these endeavours bears directly on the situation of the rural sector. The demands of international economic pressures are for our minerals. These pressures nave relegated out rural exports to a secondary role. It would appear that the role Australia is being increasingly asked to play is that of a major mineral exporter and a very minor agricultural exporter confined to quota systems with our traditional markets, which means a further reduction in the living standards of people living on the land. To provide assistance on the basis of a substance which increases production is only true assistance if there is a market at a sufficient price for the extra production. In some instances there is a market and in those cases the bounty can be said to provide an economic return to producers. Of course, this is not always the case and that is why the Opposition while not opposing the Bill would like to draw the attention of the House to the opinion of the dissenting commissioner,  Mr Robinson. Mr Robinson  proposed a full scale inquiry aimed at co-ordinating existing assistance measures and recommending new measures where justified in order to develop an effective and efficient framework within which rural industry could continue to develop as a low cost, nationally valuable activity. While farmer organisations have displayed little interest in this proposal, I have found that individual farmers are quite receptive to it. Perhaps the farmer organisations should consider the wishes of thenrank and file and at least look at this suggestion in a serious way. 
Returning to the detail of the Bill, I would like to make a few points. The Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  in his second reading speech misled the Parliament. The rate of bounty is not in accordance with the Industries Assistance Commission report. The IAC recommended that the bounty be paid on an ad valorem rate of 20 per cent of the manufacturers' ex-works price. Setting the bounty on a fixed rate of $12 per tonne, whilst in round terms it approximates 20 per cent of the current price, does not take into consideration future fluctuations in price. The prospect is that the price of phosphate will rise. The existing iniquitous arrangements for exploiting rock phosphate from Christmas Island no doubt will be terminated and the workers and people of the island compensated. The result will be increased pressure for rises in the price of superphosphate. Thus the Government, by not adopting the letter of the IAC recommendation, has adopted a basis which will become less significant as the price of phosphate undoubtedly rises. No provision is made to adjust these rises in price. 
I believe that there is a strong case for reviewing the bounty when conditions improve in the rural sector. I have no doubt that conditions will improve in the rural sector and that the present slump in the beef industry will be followed by a boom in a year or two. That would be the appropriate time to consider reviewing this bounty, not when conditions in the industry are bad. The continuation of the bounty now is a justifiable protection in much the same way as we justify similar protection of the manufacturing sector. I support the Bill. 
I am pleased to support the Australian Meat and Live-Stock Corporation Bill as its introduction recognises the very dire straits that the beef industry is in and also the way in which the Government has let down the beef industry. The Government, with these belated efforts, is trying to overcome those deficiencies. There is no doubt that the Government has let the beef industry down. We have seen a unique situation. It is something which happens very rarely in Australia. We have seen primary producers in Australia adopting a militant attitude and organising themselves accordingly. To indicate my interest in the industry I point out that a couple of weeks ago I was invited to address a meeting of Victorian farmers at a little place called Merino which is in the heart of Wannon, the electorate of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  We had a very successful meeting. It was a unique occasion where 60 or 70 farmers- a lot of them militant-sat down and talked across the table with 3 Australian Labor Party politicians. They were very glad to listen to us because they knew that we were sympathetic to their problems. They knew that we understood their problems. They found us much more sympathetic and understanding than some of the politicians on the Government side. 
It was an interesting experience. Of course, it was the militant farmers from Hamilton who organised the first boycott of the meat and livestock auctions at Hamilton. Whose co-operation did they seek in order to make that boycott successful? They sought the co-operation of the trade union movement. With the assistance of the trade union movement- particularly the Transport Workers Union- the boycott was successful. It was so successful at Hamilton that some livestock producers in Queensland were encouraged to do the same thing. They showed their disgust at the way in which the Government was handling their situation by putting on a boycott at Rockhampton. Last week we had another boycott at Horsham. These are indications of the dissatisfaction of the producers at the way in which the Government has misled the industry, has not looked after industry interests and at the contrary advice which it is getting from the Government. 
Only a few weeks ago the Leader of the National Country Party of Australia,  Mr Anthony,  was telling the producers to withhold their stocks. That is what they did. But when they did what the Leader of the National Country Party told them, the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  turned around and criticised them for doing that. No wonder they have lost confidence in the Government. When one looks at the results that the meat exporters have achieved one can see who has been profiting from the bad management of the Government. We all know that the meat exporters have been showing increased profits for the last two or three years at the expense of the producers. 
Returning to the meeting, I must tell the House of the concern these farmers have about the Meat and Live-stock Corporation. Firstly, they were very concerned about the inconsistency of the advice they were getting from the leaders,  Mr Anthony  and  Mr Sinclair,  who were putting opposing views. There were very concerned about the overriding authority of the Minister and about the lack of clarity in the selection of the consultative committees. They were very concerned about all the things which have not been set out in this legislation and which are to be left to the regulations. A very wide ranging set of conditions are to be left to the regulations over which this Parliament will have not control whatsoever. They were concerned about the lack of producer representation and they were particularly concerned about the timing. I hope I am wrong but I cannot see how this Corporation is going to get off the ground before next March. The Government has not said how the consultative committees are to be selected. It has not outlined the basis on which representation is to be based and it will take a long time for the producers to get their representatives into the field, and for all the other sectors of the industry which need to be represented to organise themselves. 
These people had reached the stage where they realised that to do anything about thenindustry they had to accept some form of government intervention in the marketing of meat. They had to accept a degree of socialisation, not in the production of meat but in the marketing of meat. They are prepared to accept that. That is what they want, but it took the Government a long time to respond to the needs and requests of the industry. It will be interesting to see whether the producers still think that their marketing needs to be socialised in 18 months or 2 years time, when the beef industry starts to recover, and I have no doubt at all that it will recover. In view of the experience of the last couple of years, I hope that when the industry does recover the producers will have the good sense to set up a levy and put aside some money in the boom times to carry them through the sorts of bad times they have experienced recently, when they have had no levy to support them and no support from the Government. I am convinced that some people at least will learn from their experience. They will have learned that sometimes through frustration militant action is justified. Even though they have been very ready to criticise trade unionists who take militant action, when they see that it is in their interests to take such action they do so. I commend them for doing that. I commend them also for asking the trade union movement to support them because when they work together they can be very successful. The occasion when primary producers combined with trade unionists to achieve some relief from their problems was a very interesting event. 
I was interested to read what was said by the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Sainsbury).  He must have been in a great dilemma when he had to come to the rescue of the Minister and defend him against the criticism of some of his own constituents and of some of the organisations in his electorate. The United Farmers and Woolgrowers Association objected very strongly to not having enough producer representation and the honourable member for Eden-Monaro had to come in and defend the Minister. I do not know that I admire his judgment but certainly I admire his courage in doing that. Whether he showed good judgment or not we will be able to tell at the next election. There is no doubt that the way this matter has been handled has caused great divisions in the beef industry, divisions which I hope have taught the industry a lesson. I hope too that the producers will learn that lesson. I hope that when the good times come along they will remember the occasions when they called on the support of the trade union movement to help them overcome their problems. I hope that they will remember the days when their returns were very low; that they will put aside some money during the boom times so that they do not have to ask the Government for assistance but can be strong and independent. I think they can do that if they are prepared to set up export levies when times are good to protect themselves against downturns in the market. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Bourchier)  adjourned. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 4 May 1977: 
1 ) At what local time and by what airline did he and his wife arrive at Bali on 24 September 1 975? 
Where, when and with whom did he have dinner on that day? 
Where and when did he attend the monkey dance? 
To what motel were he and his wife taken, and at what time were they taken there? 
5 ) Where, when and for how long did he have discussions with the two Indonesian officials who met him? 
Who was present at those discussions? 
Did he make a record or note of his discussions? 
Does his Depanment have any record or note of his discussions? 
Was he in touch with Indonesian authorities about his visit to Bali before he arrived there? 
-Most of the debate on the International Development Association (Further Payment) Bill and the International Fund for Agricultural Development Bill has emphasised the disappointments in our aid programs. Many people have tried to analyse the cause of the disappointments. Some speakers have been rather cynical about the results because of the disappointments. More recently, people concerned with aid have been analysing the reasons for failure much more deeply, particularly academic investigators. A lot more useful knowledge is being made available to people concerned with aid to give a better understanding of what is required and why aid programs consistently fail. Generally, most aid programs can be said to have failed. At best they have had a very limited impact. Certainly, there have been some successes through technological breakthroughs and the development of special breeds and more productive varieties of wheat and rice in Asia and some African countries. 
Generally, the overall picture of aid to rural development is one of failure. I have seen recent figures which show that per capita food production in Asian countries has declined. This is not because the actual amount of food produced has declined but because the increase in production of food has not kept pace with the increase in population. As a result, the opportunities for employment in the rural sector have not increased whereas the available resource for rural employment has increased. The work force has increased consistently. The rural sector has not been able to absorb it. Neither has the industrial sector in many countries been able to develop to the extent that it can absorb the surplus rural work force. Although there may not be a lot of obvious unemployment there is certainly a lot of underemployment. If there were opportunities for industrial employment a lot of the work force could be removed from the rural sector into the industrial area. This happened in 
Japan where the process went on over a long period from about 1 930 onwards. 
There is a wide range of reasons for the failure of aid programs. A lot of them stem from misdirected motivation in the donor countries. Countries have used aid as a propaganda tool. They have donated surplus production from their own countries to a less developed country which has had a reverse effect and discouraged rural production in that country. Fortunately, those days are past, but we went through a period when that was practised widely. Other programs fail because of corruption either in the donor country or the recipient country. From my brief contact with these countries it seems to me that corruption is much more likely to be found in capitalist countries than in socialist countries. The ruling elite tend to use aid not in the interests of the people at the bottom of the scale but in their own interests and for speculation. This has been a considerable factor in the reasons for failure of aid programs. 
Failure to control the population in countries overrides any significant positive effect that aid might have. The huge increase in population, particularly in the rural areas, outstrips any increase in productivity which may be taking place. One of* the factors which is being looked at more closely now but which has not been looked at enough in the past to see why these programs have failed is the failure to alter the structural and institutional constraints in the recipient country. We tend to try to operate in the environment in which we are experienced in our own country and not adapt our programs to the environment of the recipient country. I believe that this is a major reason why various aid programs have failed. 
Technology is terribly important. This is mainly the function of research and extension institutions and not the aid organisations. The institutional problems cover a wide range of factors. They cover political factors, the ruling elite and the interest groups they represent, the extent to which rural interests are represented and the sons of problems we have in our own country with interest groups within politics. Here again these problems are more acute in capitalist countries than in socialist countries. Socialist governments tend to operate in the interests of the people as a whole and not for special vested interests. 
Another problem which has the same connotation is land tenure. It is very difficult to get land tenure reform in capitalist countries because so much vested interest is involved. In socialist countries it is much easier to change the system of land tenure to a system which benefits people at the bottom of the rung. I invite honourable members to compare newly independent countries in Africa like Kenya and Tanzania. In Kenya there has been very little change, although it is a newly independent country, because of the tremendous capital investment in the land. In Tanzania there was much less capital investment in the land. It did not have an entrenched capital structure. The investment was much lower and therefore it was much easier to alter the land tenure system and to direct production in a particular way. 
The prices policy of a government is terribly important. One of the main problems in a lot of countries is that the prices policies are aimed at producing cheap foodstuffs for the masses. This destroys incentive for the rural sector and results in a lack of balance in prices policy. If you are going to sell cheap rice without subsidising the growers you are not going to get any incentive to produce rice. Members of the National Country Party in this place would appreciate that point. Import policies also are important. Countries have to determine whether or not they are prepared to import cheap foodstuffs and sell them in competition with local production. Taxation policies are terribly important when considering aid programs, particularly if the emphasis in a particular country is on indirect taxation. People on very low incomes often pay a much higher proportion of their income in tax than do people on higher incomes. This has a very strong bearing on agricultural development in particular countries. 
Trade policies, the attitude towards imports and the extent to which a country is prepared to protect its industries are important matters. These are all institutional problems within recipient countries and the people devising aid programs must understand them. They must be knowledgeable about them; they must be prepared to research them and to approach the governments of the countries concerned with a view to making adjustments within the institutional structure so that aid programs can be more effective. 
It is terribly important that aid programs should not be seen as an outlet for rural surpluses by donor countries as some honourable members have suggested. We should not give aid in the hope that at some future date we may be able to export more rural products. This is a very dangerous basis for aid. Certainly we cannot accept the view that there is no self interest in aid. We are political realists. There has to be self interest. If the self interest is based on developing closer relations with a lesser developed country, the ultimate aim being increased trade at some future date, not necessarily in rural products because generally the situation is reversed, well and good. If the aid is aimed at improving the education or health standards in a country with which we want to develop friendly relations, or if it is aimed at promoting peaceful co-existence in the world, the motivation is still self interest but as far as I am concerned the motivation is acceptable. I do not accept the view that we should give aid in the hope of being able to flog off more of our agricultural produce at some future date. I think this is quite misleading. This just will not happen. Basically it is essential that we develop the local technical competence and professionalism in the agricultural field in recipient countries. I think that Australia can play a very vital role in this area. We should not send people to another country to manage a project and then walk out; we should train people there to manage the project so that in turn they can train their own people, develop their research facilities and provide a strong infrastructure for a sound growth program in whatever field is involved. 
It is essential that all lesser developed recipient countries become more self reliant in their rural sectors. We will not accomplish that be sending them our surplus produce but we can do it by sharing our technology, our knowledge and our experience that we have built up over many years. We have to recognise that although many newly independent countries have achieved political independence they certainly have not achieved economic independence. They are still dominated by outside economic forces which have them trapped. Unless we can break through with institutional changes they are also trapped within the institutions in their own countries. Unless we can break through these institutional constraints and establish institutional arrangements which can make the aid programs work we are not going to achieve a great deal. I commend the Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice, on 3 1 March 1 977: 
1 ) Did the proposal to residentiary develop the Mount Ainslie-Majura foothills emanate from (a) him, (b) his Department, (c) the National Capital Development Commission or (d) some other source; if it emanated from some other source, what was that source. 
Did the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development announce on 12 August 1976 that the Government had decided that the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Act will not be applied to the Australian Capital Territory; if so, and in view of the inadequacy of the existing Public Parks Ordinance 1933 of the Australian Capital Territory, what steps does he intend to take to ensure the protection for the benefit of future generations of Australians of areas of national importance such as the Mount Ainslie-Majura foothills. 
When is it expected that the NCDC will complete its analysis of the submissions on the Mount Ainslie-Majura foothills. 
Will the analysis be made public. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice, on 6 September 1977: 
1 ) Does the Government intend to increase rentals on Government housing to the same level as commercial rents. 
If so, over what period of time does it intend to achieve this objective. 
On what basis have rental increases been assessed during 1976-77. 
What percentage increases have taken place in the various categories of Government rental accommodation during 1976-77. 
How are commercial rentals assessed for comparative purposes. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice, on 6 September 1977: 
Was the tender submitted by Lachlan Constructions Pry Ltd for boomgate parking in Canberra acknowledged, and was a receipt issued for the company's deposit; if not, why not. 
Was the company advised directly that it was not successful with its tender; if not, why not. 
) Was the company only made aware that it was unsuccessful through media reports. 
How many tenderers were interviewed. 
Why were tenderers not listed in order of price, and why was the list not put on public display. 
6 ) Did the successful tenderer offer alternatives. 
What consideration was given to local tenderers so that the revenue from the project could be retained in the Australian Capital Territory. 
8 ) Is it intended to call tenders for other parking areas. 
If so, will he give an assurance that sympathetic consideration will be given to local tenderers with the appropriate background, experience and resources. 
It is now quite apparent to anyone with any discernment at all about the Australian economy generally that the Government's policies have failed miserably. It is also becoming more apparent every day that the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  is quite inadequate to his task and, of course, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  is becoming more and more discredited every day. These are not my judgments or assertions; they are the statements of former Liberals- former Ministers and honourable members opposite- who do not intend to stand for election in the next general election. 
It has been quite apparent from statements made by the honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon),  the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp),  the honourable member for Tangney  (Dr Richardson)  and, more recently, the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  that they have all come to the conclusion that the Government's policies have failed and they have condemned those policies. Daily the list of disenchanted members on the Government back bench grows. The splits over new legislation or changes in policy are quite apparently growing daily also. Even in the past 24 hours the newspapers have reported strong opposition to the proposal of the Prime Minister to deny income support to the innocent victims of industrial disputes. Back benchers have yet again rejected the new broadcasting legislation proposed by the Government. 
In November 1975 the Prime Minister promised that only under a Liberal-National Country Party government would there be jobs for all who wanted them, lower inflation and a return of business confidence. He has failed miserably. He cannot see that he has failed but many of his colleagues can. As early as September 1976 a joint parties meeting rang with criticism about the Government's failure to deal with the problem of unemployment. The Tasmanian members led the attack. It continued on 8 November, and on that notable date the honourable member for Lowe, the honourable member for Mackellar and the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  attacked the Government's economic policies. They argued about the Government's obsession with the deficit and they argued for greater stimulus for the economy. 
On 12 February at a party meeting the Government's failure to lower interest rates and taxation levels was strongly attacked. The honourable member for Mackellar said that the Government can raise large amounts of money to finance the deficit without raising interest rates and it can do so in a way which could lead to their reduction. The honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck),  from Tasmania, expressed concern about the economy. After spending the Christmas recess in his electorate, he was reported to have said: 
We are all getting the same message- tax levels are too high and pensioners are finding it difficult to pay taxation because of inflation. Businessmen are complaining about the state of the economy. 
Then, of course, the honourable member for Hotham felt that he could not continue on the Government benches while the Prime Minister prevailed. He resigned from the Liberal Parry and criticised the Government's policies. He criticised the 25 per cent cut in overseas aid, the abolition of the Australian Assistance Plan, the proposed abolition of funeral benefits for pensioners, the original breach of the promise by the Prime Minister to index pensions and, finally, the Government's decision to devalue the currency and, once that decision was taken, the refusal of the Government to lower tariffs to contain the inflationary effects of the devaluation. The honourable member for Hotham said: 
I cannot agree with the Government's current economic policy. Particularly, I am concerned with its failure to honour the promise to the private sector ... I believe the private businessman, especially the small businessman who employs the bulk of the work force of this country, is more confused, more in the dark about the future, and less confident than he was IS months ago. 
It is no wonder that small businesses have had to organise themselves into bureaus et cetera, about which the honourable member for Leichhardt  (Mr Thomson)  spoke, in order to protect themselves from the policies of this Government. The honourable member for Hotham continued: 
I am very critical of the lack of consultation between the Government and the trade union movement. It would be cruel and unfair to ask the worker to be the sole bearer of the cost of reducing inflation; but wages are too high and taxes are too high to provide incentive for increased productivity by both workers and management. Interest rates are devastating, especially to the young . . . 
Those were the words of the former Liberal member for Hotham. Finally, on Tuesday we had the retirement from the Liberal Party of the honourable member for Mackellar, who said: 
But neither can I continue to support the economic doctrine of salvation through stagnation- the doctrine which the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  seems to have espoused. It is a doctrine which, so he tells us, he has learned overseas; but it is none the better for that. In fact none of its devotees has applied the doctrine as rigorously as has their Australian convert, and most of them are now quietly adjuring it 
Certainly this was confirmed in a recent visit I made overseas. I had a look at the economic situation in most central European countries. The general consensus was that at best the European economy is stagnant and, at worst, it is declining in some areas, and there were very definite indications of this. The rate of unemployment is still high in West Germany- 4 per cent, excluding the guest workers who have to return to their countries. So, in fact, its rate of unemployment is much the same as it is in Australia. Other indications of failure of economic recovery in Europe, which Ministers of this Government fail to see but for which there is real background, are declining orders in West Germany; declining projections of steel production in many European countries; and growth targets which have been set by many governments in Europe to try to stimulate their economies have just not been met. There is growing concern at the trade deficit in America, which is quite serious by European standards. 
The Government's policies in Canberra have been quite disastrous. They are of great concern to the Government supporters in Canberra. In fact, the honourable member for Canberra  (Mr Haslem)  has virtually given up the ghost about his prospects of being re-elected. Even the Government senator,  Senator Knight,  who has to get only a third of the vote, is concerned now about his prospects of re-election; he is greatly concerned that he will not get a third of the vote. There is a real prospect that the Labor Party will win two Australian Capital Territory Senate seats in the next Senate election. Honourable members should just look at what  Senator Knight  has been saying in his concern to the Government. We have an unprecedented level of unemployment in Canberra- about 5,000 people. Young people who have trained themselves in particular skills for careers in the Public Service have been denied an opportunity to use those skills. Thousands of young people are out of work. Morale in the Public Service is at an all time low. That has had serious repercussions throughout the whole of the Public Service. 
The building industry has been wrecked. Small businesses in Canberra are in a shambles. T was interested to hear the honourable member for Leichhardt talk about small business. He should talk to small business in Canberra. The big boys are doing nicely. The other day J. B. Young Ltd announced a tremendous increase in its profit- a 24 per cent increase in its profit. Businesses such as David Jones Ltd and Woolworths Ltd do nicely in Canberra, with thenmass buying capacity and their automated services which enable them to dispense with labour. The little people are suffering. I receive complaints daily from people who are in desperate straits because of the economic policies of the Government. All the new shops in the Civic area, including those in the Boulevarde, have their problems; that is a disaster area. People who have been in business in Canberra for 12, IS or 20 years have had to close their doors. 
The whole Budget displayed a vindictive attitude towards Canberra. The Government intends to raise another $ 16m from the people of Canberra by way of increased charges. That $16m means that every person in Canberra will be paying $75, or every person in the Canberra work force will be paying $160, to meet the new charges imposed on Canberra by the Government. The Government has failed to come to any sort of arrangement with the Loan Council in regard to making grants to Canberra on the same per capita basis as they are made to the States. Instead of doing that the Government has decided to hit the local people. No formula is set down for making grants to Canberra on a per capita basis. The tab has to be picked up by the people of Canberra in the form of excessive rates and increased rent charges. Pensioners have been hit by changes in the rebated rent allowance. 
-Before I make a few uncomplimentary remarks about the Budget provisions for Canberra, I think the people of Canberra should know that the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Staley)  is not interested enough to be in the House tonight to hear what a really hamfisted job he has made of the administration of Canberra. 
He has not got any votes here but he affects the lives of a lot of people in Canberra and he should be here in the Committee to hear what people have to say about the mess he has made of the administration of Canberra. My colleagues have mentioned a lot of the details of what has happened to Canberra, but looking at the total figure it is quite apparent that the Government has set out to raise another $ 16m in revenue from the people of Canberra through the Budget. The figure of $ 16m might not sound a lot to people in the wealthy States, but there are only 200,000 people in Canberra and only about 100,000 in the workforce. A bit of simple arithmetic will show that that revenue increase will mean $160 a head for every person in the Canberra workforce to meet the extra charges in the Budget, apart from the normal increases in costs and indirect charges. These have taken the form of increases in a whole range of services, particularly in rentals on government houses, bus fares, liquor licences, parking fees and infringements, rates, adjustments in rental rebates- that will fall very heavily on people on low incomes- car registrations and licences. It is quite amazing that at a time when we are trying to conserve energy and encourage people to have small cars, the Government more than doubled the cost of registration of small cars and brought it up to the cost of registering big cars. The cost of registering a Honda Civic went from $21 to $57. I do not know how that squares with government policy on the provision of incentives to people to drive smaller cars. In Canberra the incentive is to drive bigger cars. 
There is no question of the people in Canberra expecting things for nothing. They want to pay their way, but they want to know where they stand. They do not know where they stand when the Government uses the Australian Capital Territory in the most cynical and blatant way to play politics in the Australian electorate. It is very good politics for the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and his Ministers to go around Queensland and Western Australia and say: 'Look at what we have done to Canberra. We have cut these Canberra people back to size'. It is good politics, but it is a very blatant and cynical way to treat two electorates which are supposed to have the same rights and privileges as any other electorate in Australia. 
The Government has failed to come to some definite arrangement or some formula by which Canberra receives some sort of subsidy which is in some way comparable with the per capita grants received by the States. It has been pointed out on many occasions that if Canberra received a somewhat similar subsidy to that received by the less populous States such as Tasmania, Western Australia or even South Australia, and if due allowances were made for national capital elements of costs in Canberra, we in Canberra would pay our way. We would know where we stood. The local administrators, the members of the Legislative Assembly, would be in a better position to levy rates. They would know where they stood. They would know how much they had to make up. The people would be able to decide whether they could afford to pay for those extra services or not. Under the present system we never know. We are used as a political football. Savage cuts are made, not to save money but to get political mileage in the States. I think that is a most blatant and disgraceful thing to do. 
Morale in the Public Service has never been lower. Public Service ceilings have placed severe strains on members of the Service. Above all, the ceilings have destroyed the employment opportunities for thousands of young people in Canberra. Opportunities for people to train themselves to acquire certain skills for particular positions in the Public Service have been practically closed off. The building industry has been sacrificed and thousands of tradesmen have left Canberra. The unemployment rate here has not been heard of previously and is as high as anywhere in Australia. Traditionally there has not been much unemployment here. Now we have something like 5,000 people unemployed. These cuts in the Public Service and the building industry have had a devastating effect on small businesses in Canberra. Hardly a day goes by when I do not have a small businessman ring up and say: 'Can't you do something? We are ruined. We put all our savings in this little business. Our rents are extremely high. The Government has done nothing for us. It has destroyed our prospects of growth. It has destroyed the building industry. It has cut down overtime and has cut staff ceilings in the Public Service. We are going into liquidation'. It is not only small businesses; quite substantial businesses in Civic Centre, Canberra, which have been there for many years have been forced to close their doors or go into liquidation. 
The Government has been particularly remiss on the question of self-government. It is all right for my colleague  Mr Haslem  to say 'shortly' or 'soon'. The Government has been saying this from the day it was elected. Self-government is as far away as ever. It is always going to happen next year. The Liberal and National Country parties have been saying that since I was a member of the Advisory Council, before I was elected to this Parliament. There has been a series of broken promises, one after the other. I have no confidence at all that the Minister will be able to sell a substantial form of self-government to his colleagues in Cabinet. They are really not interested in giving to the people of Canberra the rights that other people enjoy. 
I recently did a trip through Europe where I looked at the economies and spoke to government people. The philosophy of this Government is out of step with that of every country in the world. Every country in Europe that I visited is attempting reflation. They are not deflating; they are reflating. Those governments are trying to stimulate investment. Some of them have left it for too long. That is what I am afraid will happen in this country. If you leave it too long, the people lose confidence and no matter what you do they will not invest- certainly not just because the Government wants them to, or offers them some minor concession by way of rebates or allowances for the purchase of new plant. Once people lose confidence it is very hard to re-instil confidence in them. That has been the problem in other countries: They have set targets to stimulate growth and expansion but the targets simply have not been met because, although the money is there the people will not invest. I am afraid that that is what is happening in this country also. It is time the Government began trying to reflate the economy. It is already too late to expect quick results. I am afraid, that much as in Europe we are in for a time before there will be any real recovery in this country. European economists say there will be no real recovery there until 1980 or even later, and I think Australia's recovery could come even later. 
The only thing on which I would like to congratulate the Government is the fact that it has ensured that the Labor Party will win back the seat of Canberra at the next election. I have a great deal of sympathy for my colleague, John Haslem, because he does not deserve to have that happen, but he must bear the odium that has resulted from the disgraceful way that the Government has treated the people of Canberra. I have no doubt at all that the people will express their opinion of the Government very strongly indeed through the ballot box at the very first opportunity, and the sooner the better as far as they are concerned. 
I direct my question to the Minister for the Capital Territory. He will be aware that the three-year term of the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly expired recently and that members of the old Assembly consider that they no longer have a mandate to speak on behalf of the people of Canberra, their election having been for three years and that term having expired. Why has the Minister not ordered another election? Is he concerned that an election for the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly would produce a result unpalatable to the Government? 
-I am pleased to support my colleague in lending the Opposition's support to the Oilseeds Levy Bill and the Oilseeds Levy Collection and Research Bill. I must say how pleasing it is to see the Government taking a positive initiative in the rural areas for a change. Rather than talking about getting people out of agriculture and subsidising and retraining them, here we have a positive approach to one of the very few growth sectors left in the rural industry. I have said many times that we need a much more positive approach to our rural problems and that we should not always be talking about cutting down and getting people out of the rural industry: We should be looking for alternatives, and this is one of them. 
Looking back over the last 20 years of Australian agriculture, there have been several examples of newly emerging growth sectors which we did not anticipate, but which came about through changing technology or changing demands in people's eating habits. I cite the chicken industry, the fruit juice industry, the mushroom industry, the pet food industry and all those industries which hardly existed 20 years ago but which now make a positive contribution to the Australian rural sector. Here is another industry- the oilseed industry- which has definite growth prospects. It has these growth prospects in two very important areas. One relates to the terms of import replacement in that we still import substantial quantities of vegetable oil, particularly soya bean. We import about 8 1 ,000 tonnes a year, about 30 per cent of which, I understand, is soya bean. We also import about 10,000 tonnes of oil seeds for birdseed and various other uses and about 15,000 tonnes of oil meals and cakes for stock food. These are substantial figures. There is considerable scope for import replacement in these areas. 
We also export some particular crops. There is scope for improvement here. It seems that world demand for vegetable oil and vegetable oil products is increasing at about 4 per cent a year. I have no doubt that when some of the underdeveloped countries are able to raise even marginally their living standards they will benefit not only by consuming more vegetable oil products but also by exporting vegetable oil products. This is a very favourable area in which we should be investing. The only sad thing is that the scheme has taken so long to be introduced. I remember going to an agricultural college in the 1930s. The story was told that all we had to do in Australia to establish a soya bean industry was to breed varieties that were adaptable to Australian conditions. That was 40 years ago. No direct funds have been made available for that purpose. We have only nibbled at the problem. Now we have a fund directed specifically towards these ends. It is peculiar to crops such as soya bean that the technology or the seed cannot just be imported. The crops do not grow in the same way under our conditions. 
One of the great problems for this fund is that not only will it need to be proliferated over a wide geographic area in order to represent State interests but also it will have to cover quite a wide range of crops. The main crops in this field are soya bean, sunflower, rapeseed, linseed and, to a lesser extent, safflower and lupins. These substantial areas have completely different terms of adaptability and environment which have to be catered for in any breeding program. It will not be easy to decide priorities on where the money should be spent, to which State it should go or on which crop it should be spent. A great problem of the fund will be seeing that interstate or inter-crop or inter-industry rivalries do not proliferate the fund to such an extent that it has no real effect on the industry itself. 
We have been pursuing this problem for many years particularly in relation to soya bean. Even last year we had people overseas looking for crops which may be adaptable to Australian conditions. We have started 40 years behind. We should have undertaken this scheme years ago. At least now we are on the right track. There is a need to cover a wide range of crops and conditions. A variety which may be bred for Queensland may not be suitable for Victoria, or vice versa. I think there would have been great merit in this scheme if in fact in the early years of the levy the Government had contributed $2 for $ 1 instead of on a dollar for dollar basis. This would have got some volume into the industry so that it would have reached the stage fairly quickly where it would have been contributing more to its own fund. I think the amount made available is rather parsimonious. It will be very difficult for the people. charged with determining priorities to see where the money goes and just how it is spent. 
One of the most pleasing prospects is that through genetic breeding we will be able to increase yields. We will be able to increase drought resistance and resistance to disease and things like that which overall reduce the cost to the farmer. This is another positive approach. Farmers will not have to scream to the Government about subsidising costs. We will effectively and positively reduce costs. We can produce more with the same amount of money. It is the positive approach to our rural problems that I applaud rather than the negative approach. 
I think it is a very fine move. I think many scientists in Australia are capable of applying this research. We have some of the outstanding plant breeders in Australia in our State agricultural departments and the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation. They know what the problem is. They know how to overcome it. They have never had the funds to do so. One of the great tragedies of this country is that our priorities are such that we have virtually wasted potential resources by not devoting small amounts of money initially to this type of project. Therefore I commend the scheme most widely. I feel that it will pay off. We should look at how the scheme is paying off. It should be reviewed in terms of how it is working. Possibly, if it seems to be a good investment, we should increase the levy in the early stages so that this industry can gather momentum much more quickly than it would if the present subsidy of a dollar for dollar were to apply. 
There will be problems of responsibility for determining priorities, but I am sure that they will be overcome. The proposal to set up an agricultural research committee is an admirable one. There is a further proposal that there should be a bureau of rural research to co-ordinate all these projects and to establish priorities to see that scientific and technical considerations are not over-ridden by State jealousies or conflict between various sectors of the industry. I commend the Government on its positive action. I hope the scheme will be kept under close supervision. If it is found to be paying off some consideration should be given to actually increasing the rate of the levy. 
-On behalf of the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory I present the following report: 
Report on proposals for variations of the plan of layout of the City of Canberra and its environs, 64th series. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I seek leave to make a short statement in connection with the report. 
-I will be very brief. I want to respond to a few comments made by the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh),  particularly when he challenged the Opposition to state whether it thought primary producers should have equal rights with other citizens. From our record, it is quite apparent that, we believe that. Our record will indicate that. On the other hand, primary industries in their present state are a disaster area. The honourable member should not be asking that question of us; he should be asking that question of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair).  Does he think primary producers are entitled to an equal stake in our society? Of course, the answer is in the reception he has been receiving at public meetings all over the country. People are demanding his resignation. Of course, it is not all his fault. If he were left to himself he might make a better fist of it, but unfortunately his policies often are contradicted by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Anthony).  The whole situation is in a shambles. The people in the country know that it is. 
I have no doubt that on the eve of an election little handouts such as a nitrogenous fertiliser subsidy are being made in an endeavour to win back people who have been alienated from the National Country Party. I have no doubt that people in Leichhardt, Dawson and Capricornia m Queensland, in Eden-Monaro, Calare and Riverina in New South Wales, and in a few electorates in other States will express their opinion on how this Government has performed in the interests of primary producers. They will know that historically all the sound market stabilisation schemes have been set up under Labor legislation. Of course, the sound position of the wool industry at the moment is the result of progressive legislation introduced - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! I appreciate that the honourable member for Fraser is making a few passing comments. I point out that the next item of business is the Appropriation Bill and the estimates for the Department of Primary Industry. Some of the comments being made by the honourable memberthis would apply also to the honourable member for Darling Downs-might be made more suitably in the debate on the estimates than in this debate. 
I appreciate your advice,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  Just to put the record straight for the benefit of those people in the Government parties who do not know what the Australian Labor Party's attitude is, I have here a statement on our rural and fisheries policy from our last national Conference. I seek approval to table it and to have it incorporated in  Hansard. 
-Yesterday I had cause to congratulate the Government on its initiative in introducing a positive approach to a real problem. I refer to the research levy on oilseeds. This was a good initiative, but it was a belated although welcome positive approach to a small and insignificant sector of rural production. It was a token response to the problems. When we look at the big issues we can only conclude, as the farmers have concluded, that this Government has failed the farmers lamentably, and that the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair has failed them lamentably. The most glaring failure, and one which has been well expressed right throughout the rural sectors, is in the beef industry where not only has the Government failed the producers but also in the process it has not raised a finger against the continuing exploitation of low prices for beef by the meat processors. The honourable member for Macarthur (Mr Baume)  is a member of one of the leading export companies, Tancred Bros Pty Ltd. 
The meat producers have made unashamedly high profits at the expense of the producers. We are all well aware of the extent they went to to exploit the producers, even dumping meat, supposedly unbeknown to the government, on the American market. This has greatly embarrassed the Government and brought great discredit to our business ethics that our meat exporters should have indulged in that sort of practice. But, it was condoned by the Government. The Government did nothing about it. It let it go on. It let the processors exploit the producers. That is the continuing sorry story of the beef industry. 
The latest effort, of course, is an admission of defeat. I refer to the Government's bankrupt policy of spaying young heifers. This flies in the face of all predictions about the beef industry. We all know that the beef industry is subject to fairly long swings and cycles of supply and demand. We have been advised by many people that the cycle is in the process of swinging back and that in two or three years time it looks as though there will be a shortage of beef. Yet we are spaying our young heifers, the young breeding stock of tomorrow. We are paying people to render them in such a way that they cannot be bred from. They will be able only to be fattened and sent to the markets. This is a bankrupt policy, a short sighted policy. The whole beef industry must run on a long, planning cycle of something like five years. Yet we are paying people to spay cattle so that the cattle cannot be bred from. 
I suggest that producers should not accept this proposition. I do not think many will. I think they have a bit more sense, foresight and experience in the game to know that this is a desperate effort and one that is bound to fail. Other problems have been loaded on to primary producers. The prospect of increased fuel costs is one which must be faced by the whole of the country, of course, but there is an inbuilt inelasticity of demand for fuel on the farm. There is not much that the man on the land can do to save fuel. It is part and parcel of his daily operations in running the farm and in communicating in his area. Whilst people in metropolitan areas may have the opportunity to save fuel, people on the land have not. I certainly think some consideration must be given to this matter. 
One of the most notable failures or examples of indecision or of different points of view in respect of rural problems is in the Government's handling of the anticipated national rural bank. The whole thing is in disarray. The statement by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  this morning did not clarify the position at all. The Prime Minister in his electorate talk in September, and subsequently  Senator Cotton  in answer to a question on 1 3 October, made it clear that the bank would be an independent statutory authority which would have to operate on its own account and which could not be an institution managed within the trading banks. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  and the trading banks, of course, have other ideas. He has said that the bank should be a refinancing institution, administered by the banks and not by a separate institution. Where does the Government stand on this matter? Perhaps I am being unfair to the Minister for Primary Industry. I think if he had a fair go he would make a better fist of the job. How can he succeed when he is being contradicted and overridden by the Leader of the National Country Party and the Prime Minister? They should make up their minds and work out beforehand what they intend to do, before they start confusing everybody with these conflicting statements. 
No statement has been made as to where the funds will come from. No statement has been made as to whether the bank will supply low interest loans. No statement has been made as to whether it will work through the Commonwealth Development Bank or on the relationship the Development Bank will have with the statutory authority or the refinancing institution. It appears that the decision on whether to lend to a producer will rest with the manager of a private bank, as it always has. I have always maintained that where government money is made available for special purposes we should have specially trained government valuers, as the Rural Bank of New South Wales and the Commonwealth Development Bank have. They go out, look at each case on its merits and do forward projections for several years. They exercise expert knowledge of farm management and the latest technology. By doing that, those banks are able to lend to a much wider margin than the manager who applies some rule of thumb method. He sits in his office and decides on a certain value, and then he decides that he can lend up to 60 per cent of that value. If it is done in a more sophisticated or more expert way, I think it is quite valid to lend to a much closer margin- up to 70 per cent or 75 per cent of the value. This can be done only on the basis of expert advice. That expert advice is in the hands of the specialist valuing staff of those banks. It is not in the hands of the commercial banks. From my reading of the legislation, the intention is that the manager of a private bank will have the ultimate say. I do not think that will be very helpful to primary producers. 
The Government has tremendous electoral problems. With an election possibly coming up very soon, it can look to many of its rural seats only with a great deal of trepidation following the confusion and mishandling of the rural sector. It has the problem of the Chipp party which will make inroads into the Senate prospects of the National Country Party. There is no doubt that there is a great threat to Country Party held seats in New South Wales such as Eden-Monaro, Calare and Paterson. Several Liberal held seats in New South Wales and Victoria are under threat. They include Bendigo, Ballaarat and McMillan in Victoria. Also under threat are the seats of Kalgoorlie in Western Australia, Herbert, Capricornia, Leichhardt and Dawson in Queensland. All of these are under threat because of the mishandling of the rural sector by the Government These members will pay the price. 
I tried to table our policy today. Leave was refused. It is all in the policy. It is a very progressive policy. The policy sets out to do something for rural industries on a long term basis. 
You had plenty of time to do what you wanted to do, and you made a mess of it. 
Look at our policy, and you will see what we would do. We have adopted a positive approach. We have attempted long term solutions to these problems, not the band-aid measures which have been applied by this Government. Another serious problem to rural industries has been devaluation and the prospect of further devaluation. Whilst this may be seen as being of some temporary advantage to the exporters, it is a very short term advantage. It is soon offset by retaliation by countries which put up barriers to our exports to those countries where we hope to sell more. Of course the devaluation has contributed to the massive rise in domestic costs referred to by the honourable member for Macarthur. He did not say why these massive rises were brought about. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drummond)  -Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

 Mr BAUME (Macarthur)-Mr  Deputy Chairman,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
I want to speak briefly about the proposed Williamsburg Conference which is planned to be held in Canberra between 1 November and 4 November at the Lakeside Hotel. Originally it was planned that this conference would be held at the Australian National University but there was such an outcry from the student and staff associations that the organisers wisely withdrew from the ANU and decided to hold it at the Lakeside Hotel. 
These conferences are held each year and they bring together top military and government officials, and heads of multinational corporations from the United States of America and noncommunist Asian countries. This top level think tank is sponsored by the Asia Society, an organisation based in New York and Washington and started by multimillionaire John D. Rockefeller I, who built the colonial town of Williamsburg where the first conference was held in 1971. These conferences usually are held away from main cities and out of the public eye. They are highly secretive and exclusive get-togethers which allow lobbying and person to person contact between individuals in top positions. Hence a high proportion of chairmen and presidents of multinational corporations from the United States and Japan, and top people of influence from South East Asia have been invited to Williamsburg 7, the conference planned to be held in Canberra. Although it is claimed that this is only a way of bringing together key decision makers, the Asia Society has a recent history of involvement in providing important research facilities for the United States war effort in Vietnam. 
If one looks at the guest list of those coming to Williamsburg 7 it speaks for itself. From Indonesia there is General Ali Murtopo, Chief of Indonesia's security and the man who was the project officer for the acquistion of East Timor. This man was responsible for the invasion of East Timor where up to 100,000 Timorese have been killed. Others are Rachmat Saleh, Governor of the Bank of Indonesia and Julius Tahaya of Caltex Indonesia. They are all very interesting personalities. From Australia there is to be Rod Carnegie, of Conzinc Riotinto, John Reid of James Hardie Asbestos who is also a director of the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd as well as being  chairman  of the Australian-Indonesian Business Co-operation Committee and who applauded the Indonesian takeover of East Timor. Another is Nicholas Parkinson, Secretary of the Department of Foreign Affairs, which has helped to sponsor this conference and which has put up some $15,000 provided by the Australian taxpayer. Another is  Sir Laurence  Mclntyre, former Ambassador to the United Nations and now director of the Australian Institute of International Affairs which is co-sponsor of Williamsburg 7. 
From South Korea there is to be Kyung-won Kim, the assistant to dictator President Park and the man responsible for the imprisonment of thousands of political prisoners. From Malaysia we are to have Ghazali Shane, the Minister for 
Home Affairs and the man in charge of mass detentions. 
-If the honourable member for Riverina would listen he might learn something. Another guest is Alejandro Melchor, the Executive Director of the Asian Development Bank. He is from the Philippines. Also to come from the Philippines is Cesar Virata, Minister for Finance in the Marcos martial law regime. From Thailand we are to have Thanat Khoman, former minister and top Central Intelligence Agency man. From Canada we are to have Maurice Strong of Petro-Canada. 
The honourable member might learn something. From the United States we are to have John D. Rockefeller III, who calls himself a philanthropist. We are also to have George Ball, former United States Secretary of Defence during the Vietnam period and who is now with Lehman Brothers Corporation; William Agee,  Chairman  of the Bendix Corporation; and Herbert Cornuelle,  Chairman  of the Dillingham Corporation. And so I could go on. The guest list speaks for itself. It is a conservative elitist group and its main aim is to perpetuate American and Japanese imperialism in Australia. 
This organisation is strongly opposed by many groups in Australia, including the East Timor Association, the Aboriginal land rights groups, the Campaign Against Racial Exploitation, the Australian independence movement and the Australian Union of Students. I suggest that we do not need the Williamsburg Conference in Australia. I hope that all the organisations I have named will take the opportunity to make thenvoices heard in protest against this secret meeting being held in Australia. 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Public Service Matters, upon notice, on 6 September 1977: 
Does the Public Service Board intend to institute a 'nopoaching' policy which will inhibit the transfer or promotional opportunities of civilian Defence Department personnel to positions in other Public Service departments. 
I direct my question to the Minister for the Capital Territory. I ask: Is the Minister aware that planning procedures have broken down through a lack of staff resources to police and enforce residential lease conditions in the inner city area of Canberra? Does the Minister know how many holders of residential leases are breaching the purpose clauses of their leases by using them for commercial purposes? When does the Minister intend to take action against these breaches which are forcing up the valuations and the rates of genuine residential lease holders in the inner city area? 
-On behalf of the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory I present the following report: 
Report on the proposal for a variation of the plan of the layout of the City of Canberra and its environs, 64a series. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I seek leave to make a short statement in connection with the report. 
Will the Minister for Foreign Affairs indicate what action, if any, the Government has taken to confirm reports that the Indonesian invaders of East Timor have used napalm and chemical defoliants against the civilian population in East Timor and that there have been shipments of live Australian beef cattle from Darwin to Timor for use by Indonesian armed forces who are systematically wiping out the village people? Will the Minister also indicate whether the Australian Government intends to support the United Nations resolution condemning the Indonesian aggression in East Timor? 
-On behalf of the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory, I present the following reports: 
Report on Action taken on the Report of the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory on Canberra City wastes-a long-term strategy for collection and disposal. 
Report that the Committee is unable to complete its Inquiry into Planning Procedures and Processes in the Australian Capital Territory. 
Ordered that the reports be printed. 
-by leave-The two reports that I have tabled relate to the work of the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory in the Thirtieth Parliament. The first refers to the inquiry currently being undertaken by the Committee into planning procedures in the Territory. The second is a report from the Committee on a matter referred by the Senate on the extent to which the Committee's report of last December on 'Canberra City Wastes- a Long Term Strategy for Collection and Disposal' has been implemented. 
The work of the Committee is now, however, limited to investigations and inquiries referred by the Minister for the Capital Territory or by the Parliament. Members will be familiar with the Committee 's reports on proposals to vary the plan of lay-out of the City of Canberra and its environs. In this Parliament the Committee has examined proposals relating to the 60th, 61st, 62nd, 63rd and 64th series of such proposals and has presented reports to the House on each series. As well as providing a source of information to Parliament about the planning of the national capital, the reports also provide a useful source of information for the local community. It also permits a degree of involvement by the Parliament in the overall planning of the national capital. 
The decision taken by the Committee earlier this year to conduct meetings in public, at which the National Capital Development Commission and the Department brief it on proposals, rather than in closed session means that details of proposals contained in the transcript of these proceedings are readily available for immediate and future use by Press, public and others concerned with or interested in Canberra's planning. The Inquiry into Planning Procedures and Processes in the Australian Capital Territory is well advanced and the Committee would have reported early in the next autumn session if the duration of this Parliament had allowed. Evidence has now been taken from 34 of the 63 persons and organisations who have made submissions to the Inquiry. The Committee also visited Darwin, Adelaide and Albury-Wodonga to obtain relevant background information for the Inquiry and had proposed to extend this to include other capital cities. 
The report I have just tabled contains a strong recommendation that the inquiry into Planning Procedures and Processes in the Australian Capital Territory be again referred to the Committee if it is re-appointed by the thirty-first Parliament. An election for the Legislative Assembly will take place in 1978 at which issues of future constitutional development for the Territory will be widely canvassed. The role that the Legislative Assembly should plan in planning and development is a central point in this Inquiry and will be an important consideration in the debate proceeding that election. The Australian Capital Territory Committee's conclusions and recommendations on the role that the National Parliament should play, the future role and structure of the NCDC and its relation with the Legislative Assembly and the community, as well as relations between the various bodies involved in the planning process and their various relationships with the community should be available for consideration by those involved in that debate. I would therefore emphasise this Committee's view that the re-appointment of the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory after the election, and the referral of this matter to it again, should be a matter of priority. 
I have also tabled a short report dealing with steps that have been taken to implement the report from this Committee of last DecemberCanberra City Wastes- a Long Term Strategy for Collection and Disposal'. This report simply informs Parliament of the actions that various Ministers and their departments have taken to implement recommendations made in the main report. Annexed to the report itself are copies of replies from Ministers to letters from the  Chairman  of the Committee, detailing the actions so far taken. 
The Committee notes in the report its general satisfaction with progress so far made on the recommendations in its report but expresses the view that proposals which have not been implemented should be matters for continuing review by the departments concerned, and that further action should be taken where appropriate. Particular matters which still concern the Committee are: 
The failure so far to implement the Committee's recommendation for a pilot scheme to test the feasibility of a household-based waste collection system that would involve segregation of waste so that as much paper, metal, glass and other valuable products can be recovered from the waste stream; 
Continued delays to enact the Air Pollution (Stationary Sources) Ordinance and Regulations. Air pollution in Canberra needs to be regulated by legislation and everything possible should be done to expedite the draft ordinance. 
In relation to the Committee's recommendations for the establishment of a waste authority to integrate various aspects of collection and disposal in the Territory, the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Staley)  has commented that, in view of possible transfer of this function to the control of the Legislative Assembly, it would be wrong to pre-empt the Assembly by making a decision about future arrangements and authorities. The Minister has, however, established an interdepartmental co-ordinating committee as an interim measure. In the Committee's view, as an interim step, this is a satisfactory compromise but it holds to its earlier view that a waste authority is necessary if this matter is to receive the expert and co-ordinated attention that it requires in a city such as Canberra. 
Finally, I should like to express my thanks to all members and senators who have served on the Committee during this Parliament for the support they have given me as the  Deputy Chairman  and the contributions they have made to the work of the Committee. Like the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly),  I pay particular tribute to the honourable member for Melbourne Ports,  Mr Frank  Crean, for his contribution to this Committee. He has been on the Committee for only a very short time, but we were very pleased to have the benefit of his wide experience and knowledge. He made a conscientious and valuable contribution in that time. I should also like to thank the  Clerk  to this Committee,  Mr Nairn,  and the Committee's Research Officer,  Mr Watson,  for the work they have done for the Committee during this session. I commend the report to the House. 
-I ask the Minister for the Capital Territory whether he has refused to meet a deputation of Canberra people concerned at the proposal to develop medium density housing near the shores of Lake Burley Griffin at section 22, Yarralumla. Has the National Capital Development Commission been instructed not to discuss this matter with the residents concerned? Does the Minister agree that the foreshores of Lake Burley Griffin should be preserved for parklands, consistent with the Burley Griffin original concept of the national capital? Will the Minister take action to proclaim section 22, Yarralumla, as open space parkland area? 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 20 October 1977: 
How many persons were registered as unemployed in the Commonwealth Employment Service offices covering the electoral divisions of (a) Canberra, and (b) Northern Territory as at the end of (i) August 1965, (ii) August 1976, and (iii) August 1977. 
What percentage of those registered was (a) male, (b) female, (c) under 21 years of age, and (d) 21 years of age and over. 
What were the principal work categories of the persons registered as unemployed. 
I direct the attention of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs to the continuing deplorable over-crowding and lack of maintenance of Aboriginal housing at Wreck Bay. Will the Minister confirm that the plan of the Australian Labor Government to build 30 new homes in Wreck Bay was reduced to twenty, and then to six in the current Budget, none of which houses has been built? I understand that allocations in the 1978-79 Budget will allow for only two houses to be built. In view of the delay, will the Minister consider handing this project over to the Department of Construction with the proviso that it uses only the skilled or semi-skilled labour that is available amongst the unemployed at Wreck Bay? Secondly, will he consider his Department's taking over the responsibility for maintenance of the buildings to avoid the delays which are caused by the responsibility being divided between his Department and the Department of the Capital Territory? 
-I support the amendment. I was rather amused to hear the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  claim that we are acting in our own interests. My word we are. If we do not act in our own interests, we can be quite sure that the Government will not. It has demonstrated quite clearly ever since it has been in power that it is out to get Canberra. It has done this very effectively. This is just another example of the way in which this Government wants to discriminate against the people of Canberra. Its action is discriminatory because I have no doubt that in every State of the Commonwealth- certainly, this is so in the State of New South Wales with which I am more familiar- there is a whole range of semi-government and government projects which do not attract tax. The local government sponsored shopping centre at Campbelltown was mentioned as an example, but there are dozens of others also. For example, I refer to parking lots that are operated by local government authorities and which do not pay tax on their profits. Many local government bodies indulge in land development. They buy land, sub-divide it and make nice profits out of it when they sell the land to the public. They do not pay tax on the profit from this operation. In the same way, this enterprise should not pay tax. 
The Government has used every opportunity to discriminate against the people of Canberra. The previous Labor Government tried to encourage this sort of enterprise in Canberra. It tried to encourage the people of Canberra to undertake initiatives and innovative ideas in order to overcome the basic disadvantages the people have in relation to self-government. Many people are not aware of this position. My colleague, the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes),  pointed out that if the Australian Capital Territory had the same sort of subvention equivalent per head of population to Tasmania, the Territory would be more than able to pay its way. I understand that now we would need considerably less subvention than Tasmania to pay our way because we are moving to a stage at which we are getting very close to paying our way. This would be the case if we received a normal subvention in the way of loans from the Government. 
The Labor Government encouraged people to undertake these projects. It is not something that was done overnight. It has been part of the platform of the local branch of the Australian Labor Party for many years. The whole idea was to break through this monopoly- this David JonesLend Lease syndrome- that has existed in Canberra for many years. For many years there was no general department store in Canberra apart from that operated by David Jones Pty Ltd. Fortunately, the Canberra Commercial Development Authority has ensured that Myers Ltd will move in. People will have some variety and there will be some competition. I have heard complaints from hundreds of housewives in Canberra about the lack of variety in these big stores because they just do not have the competition. We wanted to break through that monopoly and we thought we had succeeded, until these people proposed this tax impost at a time when, as my colleague said, the whole question of the finances of the Australian Capital Territory is up for consideration in relation to the movement towards self-government. I think it is most inappropriate that this sort of tax should be introduced at this time. I do not think that the idea was initiated out of the Government's desire to tax the Authority. I am quite sure that pressure came from the vested interests in Canberra- from the local chamber of commerce. 
It is interesting to see that the honourable member for Canberra  (Mr Haslem)  is not taking part in this debate. I understand that through his family trust- it is quite legitimate- he has commercial interests in Canberra and the passing of this legislation would be in his interests. The amendment which the Opposition is moving would not be in his interests. He obviously agrees with this proposition to tax the Authority. I think that people should be clear on what taxing the Authority means. It is not a retailing agent. It is a landlord. Hundreds of shops operate in that shopping centre which will be paying tax in the same way as any other business. The argument was advanced that those shopkeepers would be receiving an unfair advantage. Nobody has explained to me what unfair advantage they would be receiving. They pay commercial rents the same as any other business and they pay taxes in the same manner. The legislation means that a great proportion of the Authority's net profit will go back to the Government in some form or another. I do not know what the amount will be because it is not spelt out. But if the normal taxation that applies to proprietary companies or public companies were applied, the Authority would be losing about 50 per cent of its net profit. I think that the taxation rate is about 46c in the dollar. This merely means that half of the profit which normally would have been invested in community facilities will go back to the Government and the Government will be under pressure to provide those facilities. 
People should be quite clear on this point. The whole idea of this Authority is that the net profit from the operations of the landlord and the developer should go back into the community. It is contemplated that the profits would provide occasional child care centres at shopping centres and recreational facilities which have not been supplied by the Government in the Belconnen area. It is notably devoid of any of these sorts of facilities. The profits of the Authority would provide general recreational and child care facilities and any other facilities or amenities that are not supplied by the Government which has let the people of Canberra down very badly in that respect. When we try to do something on our own initiative to generate funds to do these things that the Government is not doing, it moves in and says that it wants to take half of the profit. That money goes back into Consolidated Revenue. The people do not see it at all. There seems to be some misapprehension that the Authority has some advantage by receiving cheap funds from the Government. 
The Authority received only a very small grant from the Government. I understand that there are provisions for that money to be paid back. But the great majority of the funds- something like $30m- was raised through normal banking channels. The Authority pays interest on the money in the same way as any other business. It is a lot of nonsense to say that these people have a particular advantage and that they should be taxed because of that. 
If the honourable member wants the people of Canberra to stand on their own feet and pay their own way, he should give them a fair go. If they develop some initiative or some innovative idea- I think that this is a very innovative proposition they have carried outthey should be encouraged to carry it out and devote the funds to the interests of the people. I would like to pay a tribute to the people who have got this Authority under way. They have had all sorts of obstacles to overcome from the Government and from the National Capital Development Commission in relation to parking. It has taken years to get the project under way. I must pay a tribute to the  Chairman  of the Authority,  Mr Jim  Pead, who has borne the brunt of this work for many years at great personal loss to himself and to his health. I must say that Jim Pead has been a great servant of the people of Canberra for many years. He should be encouraged in these operations, not discouraged and paid the discourtesy of not being consulted, either in respect to the Legislative Assembly or the Authority, on this matter. 
The honourable member for the Northern Territory agreed that there should be consultation. But, of course, there has been no consultation, despite the undertakings given at different times by various Ministers of the Government. In November 1977 the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Mr Adermann)  gave a pledge that there would be full consultation before any legislation was contemplated. Even on 23 February 1978  Mr Eric  Robinson the then Minister assisting the Treasurer, said: 
In view of the advance towards self-government in the Territories there will be appropriate consultation with the authorities prescribed under this Act. 
He just has not fulfilled that undertaking. I think it is the height of discourtesy to try to push this Bill through the Parliament without any consultation with the Assembly, or the Authority itself, at a time when the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Ellicott)  is calling for the closest consultation with the people of Canberra in order to bring forth an acceptable standard of selfgovernment for those people. I think the amendment is a fair one and I am pleased to support it. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, would you convey to  Mr Speaker  and  Mr Deputy Speaker  Millar my very warm congratulations on their appointment to their high offices? They can be assured of my full cooperation when carrying out their duties. Unfortunately, I was not able to be present for the opening of the Parliament and the delivery of the Governor-General's Speech. However, having read it I can only agree with the remarks of many of my colleagues, who have described it variously as vacuous, complacent, irresponsible, and even an insult to the people of Australia. As we would expect, it was studded with platitudes and cliches. I believe that the Speech was an attempt by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to express the rather paternalistic view that he and the establishment he represents would like the ordinary men and women of Australia to have of him and his Government. I rather thought, after reading the GovernorGeneral's Speech, that missing its delivery was somewhat akin to missing the latest issue of the Reader's Digest, and I say that without any disrespect to the Governor-General, whose unfortunate duty it was to deliver the Speech. 
The basic dishonesty of the Speech lay in the manner in which the real issues and problems confronting Australia today were studiously avoided on the one hand and the phoney or manufactured issues played up on the other hand. Whilst terrorism and security were played up, the urgent problem of surveillance of our 200-mile economic zone coastline did not rate a mention, despite the remarks today by the Prime Minister to the Governor-General of Papua New Guinea about aid to overseas countries. There was no mention of that in the GovernorGeneral's Speech, which makes one wonder about the sincerity of what the Prime Minister said today. 
The immediate problem of escalating health costs, due mainly to the blatant exploitation of Medibank by certain members of the medical profession was completely ignored in the GovernorGeneral's Speech. As usual great emphasis was placed on inflation and very little on unemployment, despite the reality that inflation now is a receding problem in Australia, as in most other Western countries, whilst unemployment is a growing problem in most Western democracies. I find it rather frightening that this Government continues to accept the rather simplistic view that unemployment will disappear when inflation is brought under control. In fact the record is that unemployment in Australia continues to increase at a rapid rate as inflation recedes. Our strongest trading partner, Japan, brought inflation under control very effectively many years ago. The Japanese economy is rapidly slowing down and unemployment is a growing problem. I read recently that last year there were 18,000 liquidations of businesses in Japan, including some very big businesses. One company owed the Government $5 60m. I read also that six major shipyards in Japan are expected to close down in the next six months. So there is a considerable body of evidence to refute the suggestion that because inflation is under control unemployment will disappear. The record in many nations is quite the opposite. 
There was no indication in the GovernorGeneral's Speech that the Government intends to take any positive action to come to grips with the urgent need for structural readjustment in manufacturing industries, one of the major problems confronting Australia today. On the contrary, the Speech contained a direct threat to the Industries Assistance Commission which can only inhibit that body in carrying out its functions in the long term interests of Australia. 
The shameful and blatant attempt by the Prime Minister to exploit the bomb tragedy outside Sydney's Hilton Hotel and to carry this gross over-reaction into the Governor-General's Speech can be seen only as a crude attempt to detract attention from the continuing and escalating failure of the Government's economic policies. Looked at objectively and in the less emotive atmosphere of today there is no real evidence to support the view that Australia has suddenly come under siege from the threat of terrorist activity or that there is an urgent need for a rapid expansion of our security forces. I do not see any evidence of this. The Hilton episode indicates rather- if we have learnt anything from itthat our existing security forces need to be made more effective, not necessarily increased, so that if somebody plants a bomb in a garbage can outside the door of an important conference we should have a reasonable expectation that the security forces will lift the lid and look into the garbage can. Of course, such a precaution in Sydney would have been much more effective than calling out the Army after the bomb had exploded killing three innocent victims. 
To attempt to transfer the emotive overreaction to the Hilton Hotel tragedy to Parliament House in Canberra was the height of absurdity. Unfortunately I was not present for the opening of Parliament, but the absurdity of overreaction was borne out by many reports that long-standing employees were delayed, harassed and searched before they were allowed into Parliament House whilst complete strangers gained entry without any check whatever. It is well known that most of the victims of political terrorism- the few cases that there have been in Australia- have been members of the Australian Labor Party or generally to the left of politics. Quite often those who perpetrated the terror were from the right of Australian politics. 
Listening to those defending the GovernorGeneral's Speech, I have been appalled by the number of Government supporters who have seen fit to launch scurrilous attacks on the courtesy and dedication of the staffs of the Commonwealth Employment Service and the Department of Social Security. These much maligned public servants have the unenviable task of managing the huge increase in the level of unemployment caused by the Government's mismanagement of the economy. They have been given a task for which they do not have the resources. In Canberra during the three year period from November 1974 to November 1977 unemployment rose by 212 per cent whilst staff increased by only 62 per cent. I have only contempt for those people who criticise public servants in these circumstances. Within my office we have received nothing but courtesy and the fullest cooperation from the staffs of these departments. Very rarely do we get any complaints from our constituents in this regard. It is fair to say, certainly in my experience, that the Public Service is not lacking in compassion as some government supporters have tried to claim. It is lacking in resources to do its job competently. This has come about from irrational and arbitrary staff ceilings which have been imposed on the Public Service by this incompetent Government. 
I believe that one of the most pressing problems confronting the people of Australia today is undoubtedly the sharply escalating cost of health services. This affects every wage and salary earner in Australia. While some Government supporters have endeavoured to lay the blame on the users, there is no doubt at all in my mind that some members of the medical profession have much to answer for. I am sorry to say that this once most highly respected profession, based on the highest ethical conduct embodied in the Hypocratic oath and surrounded until recently with a certain degree of mysticism, has now fallen from grace in the eyes of many Australians. This is a great pity because I am sure that the majority of members of the profession are still men and women who act with the highest integrity and ethics in the pursuit of their profession. I exclude that majority of the medical profession from my remarks. Unfortunately there is a minority of members- I believe a significant minority- within the medical profession who have debased the ethics of their profession and for whom the practice of medicine has tended to become a business rather than a profession. To the Government's credit it has come down very heavily on those medicos who have been detected making false claims on Medibank. I understand that about 160 of these people have been brought before the courts. Of course, we do not know how many have not been apprehended. We do not know exactly the extent of that crime. 
I find it very difficult to understand how people who are engaged in such a lucrative profession should succumb to the temptation to cheat in this way. I have been told- I do not know whether the position is the same in other areas- that in the Australian Capital Territory an energetic general practitioner can gross $ 1 00,000 per annum. This seems to be regarded as the norm. If some practitioners are not getting that amount, they think they are not getting their share of the revenue. Specialists are capable of earning much more. I have no doubt that much the same position exists in the capital cities of Australia. Those statements are not based on my knowledge; they are based on knowledge, information or opinion which has been expressed to me by people in the profession. These people who falsify claims can be regarded as white collar criminals who steal from the public purse. The best that can be said of these types of crimes is that they do not involve violence. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
Before the suspension of the sitting for dinner, I was referring to the fact that one of the most pressing problems confronting the people of Australia today is the very sharply escalating cost of health services. I was commending the Government for the way in which people who falsified Medibank claims had been brought before the courts and prosecuted. I want to make the point that these people are white collar criminals who steal from the public purse. The best we can say about them is that their crimes do not involve violence and that there are no innocent victims of their crimes in an individual sense. 
But the thing that really concerns me and which I think should concern all Australians is the growing body of information which is available- much of it is based on professional research and professional opinion- that day after day throughout Australia, hundreds of unnecessary operations are being carried out at a tremendous cost to the community. I suggest to the House that this constitutes not only robbery of the public purse, but criminal assault on the patient as well. In extreme cases of course, it can result in the loss of the life of the patient. These are the undetected crimes of the medical profession. In my view, doctors who perform unnecessary and unjustified operations are guilty of a much greater crime than those who falsify claims on Medibank, despicable as that crime might be. 
I do not make these accusations lightly. A good deal of research is available to support this view that many ill-advised operations are being carried out, particularly in the more common areas of surgery such as tonsillectomies, appendicectomies and hysterectomies, and things of that nature. To justify this view I should like to cite a few examples of material that is available in these research projects. An interesting report from the United Mineworkers of America states: . . . when group practice teams of salaried physicians provided services for beneficiaries hospital admissions declined by 32.5 per cent, all surgery by 16.S per cent and appendectomy by S9.4 per cent. 
A similar report states that a special study of 1.25 million steel workers and their families in the United States of America found that hospital admissions declined from 135 per 1,000 beneficiaries for fee for service to 90 per 1,000 under salaried services and surgical cases from 69 to 33 per 1,000, that is, more than a 50 per cent decrease. 
More recently, in January 1976, the  New York Times  reported: . . . hysterectomies under salaried services in England and Wales were 60 per cent less than in the United States of America where most surgeons were paid for the operation. 
Regarding the Australian experience,  Dr Lawson  cited to the 1969 Congress of the Australian Hospitals Association figures which indicated that the number of tonsillectomy, appendicectomy and hysterectomy operations in Australia were all about 100 per cent higher than the number carried out in the United Kingdom and the United States of America under salaried services. The number of appendicectomies in Australia was even 100 per cent higher than those under fee for service in the United States.  Dr Lawson  went on to estimate that in 1967-68 52,000 unnecessary operations were performed in Australia. Applying a conservative mortality rate of 0.5 per cent for elective surgery, this means that probably 260 patients died from unnecessary surgery which at that stage was subsidised by government. That was 10 years ago. One wonders what that figure would be today. It could be as high as 50,000 operations a year. 
More recently, Marlene Lugg, Chief Health Statistician in the Western Australian Department of Public Health, in a paper to the American Public Health Association in 1975, gave figures showing that the total operation rate in Western Australia under fee for service was for males, 105 per cent and for females 1 12 per cent higher than the operation rates in England and Wales under salaried services. These are significant figures about which we should think a great deal. 
We must acknowledge, of course, that there may be important social differences between the countries I have mentioned. This would account for some of the variations. But even if we allow for these and take a most conservative view, there is overwhelming evidence that under the fee for service system now dominating the Australian profession there is an extremely strong incentive to operate with the certainty of being paid, rather than not to operate. I have no doubt that many general practitioners and surgeons either consciously, or perhaps unconsciously, succumb to this incentive to operate unnecessarily. 
-That is right. Unfortunately, other medicos appear to take the view that because they do not agree philosophically with Medibank or with the Government's involvement, this gives them licence to exploit the system and undermine it at every opportunity. I regard the exploitation of Medibank by some members of the medical profession as the greatest public scandal in Australia today. It is encouraging to hear the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  starting to speak out at last more strongly on this particular problem. Unfortunately, present indications are that the approach to the problem appears to be concentrating on the patients rather than on restructuring our overall approach to health care. 
In recent debates I have heard some Government supporters suggesting that the blame for the increased costs lies with the patients. This is patently absurd. It is the doctors who put people in hospital and it is only the surgeons who operate. I have never heard of a patient who enjoyed having an operation. I had surgery recently and I can assure honourable members that I did not enjoy it and I am still not enjoying it. There are effective answers to the problem, but they require radical and resolute action by government. 
I have already mentioned the benefits to the public from the extension of salaried services. This has been fought against tooth and nail by the Australian Medical Association. However, with so many university students clamouring to enter the lucrative medical faculties this year in the universities, there is some hope that we may have so many doctors that they may be prepared to work for a salary more readily than they have in the past. I believe that the introduction of effective surgical audit within our hospitals is an urgent need in Australia today. Undoubtedly, the most effective long-term approach to the problem is to restructure our health services so that a much larger share of the resources is directed towards preventive health programs. 
I direct my question to the Prime Minister and refer to the Press report on 4 March that the Prime Minister had received an invitation from the Soviet Embassy in Canberra to visit Moscow. Whilst I am pleased that the Prime Minister is anxious to visit Moscow to improve his knowledge and understanding - 
-A feature of this debate on the Softwood Forestry Agreements Bill has been the lack of a global view of the situation of forestry and timber resources generally. The whole debate has centred on the domestic environment- domestic supply and demandwithout any regard whatsoever for the global view. To support my view that we should be looking at the matter more broadly, that we are a part of the south-east region of the world, and that we do not live in isolation, even in terms of timber resources, I quote from a recent article which appeared in the  Canberra Times  on 14 March. It deals with a report by the World Bank on the developing world. Its headline is interesting; it reads: 'Forests "will vanish" if trends continue '. The article states: 
The World Bank said yesterday that the developing world would have no forests left in 60 years if present trends were not reversed. 
The article goes on to point out that the area of land devoted to forests has declined by 50 per cent since the turn of the century. These are rather staggering statistics. To talk about cutting back on our rather small plantings is to suggest something which would be quite contrary to world trends. That does not mean to say that we will have a shortage here because there is a shortage throughout the world, but it does mean that as the years go by there will be more pressure on forest resources throughout the world. We are not isolated from other countries in terms of trade. We import quite a lot of softwood timber products in the form of fruit racks, milk cartons and items of that nature. We will not be isolated in any way from this trend throughout the world for forest resources to decline unless something is done. 
The World Bank takes the issue so seriously that it will devote $440m over the next five years to halt this decline in forest resources. I suggest that that is food for thought. In considering our forest resources we certainly cannot afford to disregard what is going on in the rest of the world. The newspaper article continued: 
The report said there must be a change in policies that would result in a bigger share of resources being allocated to rural afforestation programs, which would directly benefit these small farmers. 
As part of its forestry program, the World Bank would attempt to make developing countries more aware of the ecological consequences of the development of these valuable resources. 
I suggest that, whenever we are considering our forest resources, we must keep our eye on the resources of the Western world and on what the trends are likely to be. It is very difficult, if not impossible, to project what our needs are going to be in 20 or 30 years time to plan the planting of forests. I concede that in certain circumstances there could be a surplus of timber, but I think it is much more likely that there will be a shortage. 
It is rather trite to point out that a surplus can be responded to by delaying the harvesting of the timber- it does not matter a great deal to the forest whether it is harvested at 25, 35 or even 40 years of age; the timber is still there and will continue to grow up to a point- but that it is very difficult to respond to a shortage. If we respond by planting more timber we have a 25-year lag before we can get much benefit from it. So, I think that where we are in doubt we should play it safe and maintain our plantings. This is apparent when we look at what has happened in the past. 
One of the most unpredictable factors is the effect which changing technology might have on demand and on the use of timber. It is interesting to observe that here in the Australian Capital Territory we have Integrated Forest Products Pty Ltd Inc., a rather big enterprise on Cooma Road, which is harvesting all the big pine logs in 
Canberra at the moment. I do not think that the sort of technology that is being employed there was heard of- it certainly was not in general practice- when these forests were planted back in the 1930s and 1940s. There is a complete new technology which widens the possibilities for timber use. I have no doubt that in another 20 or 30 years there will be different technology- new innovations- which will put a very different colour on our need for timber resources. 
Another angle is to what extent timber is going to be called upon to substitute for other resources which are running out or are in short supply throughout the world. In the past the reverse has happened. Many uses of timber have fallen aside because they have been replaced by other products- by plastics or metals of various sorts. For instance, in the furniture industry and the toy industry, where traditionally a lot of timber was used, all sorts of other materials such as plastics and metals are being used. Indications are that those resources will not be available forever. In 20 or 30 years there might be a move in the other direction. Timber will be brought back to substitute for scarce metals and other resources which are running out throughout the world. 
Another angle to be considered is import replacement. As I said, we import a lot of our softwood products. We do not have the necessary type of timber or technology to avoid making these imports at the moment, but in a number of years time we might have. We might not have the need to import all these products; we might be able to utilise our own product in these areas if we have the product and the technology. Whilst conceding that there is a possibility of a temporary surplus of timber in some areas, I think that to play it safe we should presume that it is much more likely that there will be a shortage and that we should try to provide for it. As I said, a surplus can be responded to by flexibility in harvesting arrangements, but a shortage in the timber industry cannot be responded to quickly. 
Turning to the Bill, although a number of Government speakers have maintained that this legislation is very favourable from the point of view of the environment, I suggest that this view indicates a very shallow analysis of the situation. On deeper analysis one finds that in fact this legislation is anti the environment in many aspects. I refer particularly to the fact that the Bill does not provide funds for the purchase of cleared land. Immediately pressure will be put on organisations to obtain uncleared land. State forestry organisations have planned for a certain number of plantings this year or for the next Budget year. They have planned to have so many hundreds of thousands of seedlings available to plant out. They have the equipment and the manpower. The State governments are trying to improve their employment levels, and they will want to go on with these projects. If they do not have the funds to buy cleared land, which may have been earmarked for purchase, there will be pressure on them to use timbered land or to lease other land such as Crown land on which there is already hardwood timber. I am certainly not an advocate of the replacing of hardwood forests with softwood forests, but that may be the effect of this Bill and what may happen if funds are denied to the States to enable them to buy cleared land. 
The other very important defect in the Bill relates to management. Anybody who has had much to do with forestry would know that when funds are short management practices tend to decline or the most desirable practices tend to go by the board. I refer particularly to the thinning process. People who are familar with forestry procedures would know that in the normal management process the smallest or the bent trees are thinned out and the best specimens are left to grow and be harvested so that at any time there is only a certain plateau of umber standing in a forest. When pruning or thinning does not take place forest areas become overstocked, the quality of the timber declines and there is a surplus of small logs. Small logs are the bane of the industry. Nobody wants small logs; everybody wants large logs. Large logs can be produced only as a result of sound management practices which go by the board when funds are restricted, which is what will happen in this case. Other management practices such as pruning also go by the board. The practice of fertilisation, which is becoming more prevalent in forests these days, will also go by the board if there is a shortage of funds, which is what will be imposed by the Government's policy as expounded in this Bill. 
I want to refer briefly to the position in the Australian Capital Territory. There is a separate forests branch in the Department of the Capital Territory. It is harvesting enough timber these days to fund any expansion program. There is a standard expansion program. There are 2,000 acres of cleared land- land which has been grazed for many years, but not very wisely in some cases. It has been overgrazed; it has been overcleared. The hilltops have been cleared off. It is most desirable from an environmental point of view and from a resources point of view that we should replant this area with softwood timber. We have the funds to do it. We have the equipment. We have the trees, but we cannot do it- not because we are dependent on this Bill for funds but because of the staff ceilings. Because prospective employees would become public servants we are not allowed to employ some of the unemployed people in Canberra today, to step up our forestry planting program. That is a result of these rather doctrinaire staff ceilings which this Government has imposed. Although the Government is not denying us the funds- we have the funds- it is achieving the same purpose by the imposition of unreal and doctrinaire staff ceilings which deny us the opportunity to plant seedlings for timber, thus taking up some of the unemployment in Canberra. 
That is all I have to say. I support the amendment. I think it has to be supported from the point of view that it would alleviate the unemployment problem. The cutback in funds for forest projects certainly will affect employment opportunities. The States are anxious to step up their programs, but they are getting no cooperation and no support from this Government. I support the amendment from an environmental point of view, as I have said, because it puts pressure on forestry organisations to purchase timbered land instead of cleared land. I also think the amendment should be supported from the point of view of the need to build up our timber resources because of the long-term possibility in relation to resources generally. 
-I support the Apple and Pear Corporation Amendment Bill. It is in keeping with the Australian Labor Party's policy of generally supporting the stabilisation and orderly marketing of primary products. Indeed, the Labor Party is truly the pioneer of much of the stabilisation and orderly marketing schemes that embrace rural industries today. Many of them were initiated by Labor governments as far back as the Chifley Government. We support the legislation also in the interests of the pome fruit industry which has gone through very difficult times in recent years. As the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck)  said, it is going through a period of self-adjustment and it needs help and sympathetic support in getting through that period. Like him I am confident that in a few years the industry will be stable and able to stand on its own feet. 
One of the difficulties of the industry is the slowness with which it has adapted itself to innovations. I refer particularly to the hedgerow planting of trees, which I understand is done in still only a fairly small sector of the industry in Tasmania. Last year I went to a parliamentary conference in Bulgaria, one of the communist bloc countries. On one of our days off we were taken on a tour of one of the rich agricultural regions of Bulgaria. We saw thousands of acres of apple trees planted according to a hedgerow system. They looked to be in very fine fettle indeed. They were well managed and pruned and very highly producing. These are the sorts of techniques with which we have to compete if we want to sell our fruit overseas. Obviously these trees had been planted ten or IS years ago. It appears that those countries had adopted these new techniques and innovations much more quickly than we have. That is one of the big problems within the apple industry today. 
This amending Bill bears out some of the misgivings we voiced when the Bill dealing with the Apple and Pear Corporation was going through the Parliament in December 1976. At that stage we anticipated budgetary problems because by putting the levy on the product rather than basing it on hectares or the number of trees planted it meant that the Corporation could not know what its budget would be because it did not know what its revenue from the levy would be. The estimate was that it would be from $700,000 to $800,000 but nobody really knew. And this is what has come about. The Corporation does not know what its income will be. It does not get the income from this year's crop until about January next year and so in the interim period it will have no income. 
I think that the Government should have foreseen this difficulty. If it had based the levy on acreage or the number of trees this problem would not have arisen. The Corporation would have been able to impose the levy, knowing what revenue it would get from year to year, and would have been able to use it. This amendment bears out some of the misgivings we voiced at the time. It indicates that the Corporation is having difficulties with budgeting. The Bill does not state to what extent the Corporation is having difficulties or the nature of them. Giving the Corporation power to borrow money means that the Corporation has to pay interest on the money borrowed and ultimately this comes out of the pockets of the producers. I am saying that this should have been foreseen, as we suggested it would cause problems, but unfortunately it was not. 
In relation to the industry generally this year, I cannot agree altogether with some of the previous speakers about the prospects. Fortunately there will be less pressure on promotion and expenditure this year mainly because the domestic crop is down. I understand that it is down by about  Vh  million bushels on what it was last year- about 20 per cent- and this, of course, will have a very significant effect on the local market. That 20 per cent reduction in the quality going on the domestic market should mean better prices all round for producers. I understand that this is the expectation for this year. The other aspect about the levy which we criticised was that by putting it on the product there were greater possibilities for evasion of the levy. I think that the fact that the Corporation did not get the money it anticipated now bears this out too. At the time we wondered how the Corporation could apply the levy to apples that were sold in bulk- say apples that are brought from orchards at Batlow to a market like Canberra. Substantial quantities are brought to Canberra in bulk bins, and the levy is imposed on a bushel basis. I do not know whether the levy is being paid on those apples. The fact that the Corporation has not received the revenue it expected indicates that possibly there is considerable evasion of the levy on the product which would not have come about if the acerage or number of trees had been levied. 
As I said, the expectations on the domestic front are good. This of course does not help the Tasmanian producers who are so dependent on the export market. I believe that the export market is reasonable but not as good as last year. Producers do not expect to get quite the same prices they got last year. There is heavy competition from European areas of production and we have the extra freight costs to bear. We are in a difficult situation in that respect. But in the export area there are some favourable signs, particularly the development of new markets in the Middle East. I understand that the Corporation has been successful in air-freighting fruit to the Middle East. There seems to be some buyers there who feel that the price is not so important. The Middle East countries seem to have a lot of money to pay for all sorts of things these days. With a little enterprise from our Apple and Pear Corporation in promotion and hard selling that market has considerable potential and we should like to see it exploited. The other area where we have had fairly substantial markets is Asia, particularly Hong Kong, but I believe that now we are coming under more competition from South American countries, particularly Chile. Wherever we go we run into competition. We have to sell on price, quality, service and presentation. We have to be right on the ball about all these things or we just do not get the sales. Fortunately our Corporation seems to be moving in that direction. 
The other element in the export market which has to be considered is the effect of currency variations. We tend to be devaluing from week to week, or day to day sometimes. There is a certain amount of instability in our currency. This may make our product easier to sell in some areas but against that we have the extra costs on those parts of production costs which are associated with imports. This means that we have to pay more for apple wraps, spray chemicals and machinery that we import. So really there is no great benefit when we devalue. We get some benefit but it is offset to some extent by our import bill. 
To conclude, I solidly support this amendment as being another aid to the marketing legislation. We always support such legislation in the interest of the producers and the consumers, particularly the producers because these people are locked into the industry. They have a lot of capital invested in it and cannot just walk out. There was a day when a person could walk out of the industry, cut his losses and get a job somewhere. Now, because the general economic strategy of this Government has failed and fewer alternative employment opportunities are becoming available from day to day, these people do not have the choice of opting out of their apple growing and getting into something else. There is nothing else to get into, particularly in Tasmania where the employment position is so bad. The employment situation generally is another reason why we must strongly support these measures, which aim to assist the producer and stabilise the industry. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
I ask the Minister for Post and Telecommunications whether the Government is planning to issue television licences. Is the proposed charge to be $140 for a colour television set? When does the Government plan to introduce this imposition on the people of Australia? 
I want to add a few remarks to those made by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bo wen)  and to support the amendment which he moved. At the conclusion of his second reading speech the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  said that he was satisfied that with its present membership this Agreement offers the Australian sugar industry the prospect of more prosperous and stable years ahead. Unfortunately I cannot share his optimism and I know that there are many people in the industry who cannot share it. In addition there are many people in Queensland who do not share his optimism. I can conclude only that the Minister is very easily satisfied or has a misconception of the real problems confronting the industry or is hiding the facts about the industry from the producers. Reading between the lines and taking account of some factors which the Minister has omitted to mention, I can find many reasons for the industry being far from satisfied that there are prospects for more prosperous and stable years ahead. It seems to me that the optimistic predictions of the Minister for Primary Industry can come about only if certain events eventuate. 
These in fact are very unlikely to come about. I should like to refer to just some of them. The Minister has made a number of public statements about the sugar industry recently and some of them are worth recalling. In the  Sydney Morning Herald  of 2 December 1977 he was reported as saying, without any equivocation  or  doubt: 
When the sugar agreement started to operate the market would tighten and sugar prices would begin to rise. 
I do not know on what basis he said that. I do not know what he means. Usually when one says that a market is tightening it means the product is getting harder to sell. But that apparently is not his interpretation. He said: . . . the market would tighten and sugar prices would begin to rise. 
It is just a bald statement without any rational argument as to why prices should rise. Throughout the Minister's speech there seems to be a hopeful assumption that the 11c per lb floor price represents some sort of a guaranteed minimum price. It represents no such thing. It is merely a price below which sugar, under the Agreement, will move out of the market into stock in certain circumstances. Conversely, the ceiling price is merely a trigger price to indicate that sugar should move out of stock and on to the free world market in certain circumstances. While the Minister claimed that the International Sugar Agreement would lift the return to the world sugar industry- note that he said the world sugar industry- by about $200m, the  Australian Financial Review  of 7 October 1977 noted very pertinently: 
He did not detail the effect of the agreement on the Australian sugar industry. 
He deliberately avoided, in his speech and in statements, being in any way specific about the precise effect of the Agreement in hard cash on the Australian industry. The Minister was very ready to point out in his second reading speech that the 37 sugar exporting countries and 11 sugar importing countries which have signed the International Sugar Agreement account for 84 per cent of the free market sugar trade. What he did not point out and what he should have pointed out, and what is much more pertinent, is the fact that the free sugar market, which excludes the European Economic Community, comprises less than 20 per cent of the total world trade in sugar. The implication of course is that the Minister expresses the pious hope that the tail will wag the dog, that by their 20 per cent representation the people who have signed the Agreement will in some way be able to control the world sugar market price and to manipulate the market in a way which will ensure that the price will rise. There is no way that this can happen. The EEC is seen as the nigger in the woodpile. The Minister is saying: 'If only it would make decisions in our interest instead of in its own interest'. We know that this does not happen. It has not happened despite all the running about of our trade envoys all over the world, despite the Minister for Special Trade Representations  (Mr Garland)  going to Europe to talk to the EEC and despite Ministers going off to Japan. We have to face up to the reality of declining world trade in commodities and act accordingly and tell our producers what is the real situation. 
There are some long-standing relations between the EEC and other European countries with many of the sugar exporting countries such as those in Africa, Mauritius and the Carribean These relations will not be distorted or upset by countries which have signed the International Sugar Agreement because they represent only a minority of the world sugar trade, only 20 per cent. There is no way that those people can dictate the world price of sugar. 
The Minister, in expressing pious hopes about the future of the industry, makes no reference to the fact- it is a very ominous fact- that the trend in world trade is towards more restrictive trade, higher trade barriers and more protection for primary producers. This is the case whether we talk about the EEC, Japan, the United States of America or Australia. This Agreement that we are discussing tonight represents an effort to restrict the open market in order to try to stabilise sugar prices. I wish to quote from an article which was just handed to me. The headline reads: 'Sugar hit by Soviet re-selling'. The article states: 
World sugar prices fell yesterday in response to reports that Russia had resold substantial amounts of white sugar bought earlier in the season to traditional outlets. 
All the indications are that the market is declining rather than rising. I do not think there is any real basis at all for the Minister to make pious statements and to express pious hopes that everything in the garden will be wonderful just because this Agreement has been signed. 
It is interesting to note that the Queensland Minister for Primary Industries,  Mr Sullivan,  obviously does not share the optimism of our Minister. In the  West Australian  of 28 February this year he was quoted as saying that the Australian sugar industry would have to face major financial burdens after the negotiation of the International Agreement. At least one Minister is bening a bit more realistic about the true position in the industry. Another significant point which the Minister did not make in his second reading speech is that in the past two years Australian production has been between 300,000 and 400,000. tonnes in excess of the production, the disposal of which is provided for under this Agreement. There is no indication of what will happen to this excess production. 
There is no provision in the Bill to accommodate any adjustments in production in the industry or any measures to reduce the production to a marketable level. There is merely a pious hope that something will happen to cause the price to rise. I do not know what will cause the price to rise. The Minister made no reference to the reality of today's price which is only slightly in excess of 8c per lb. The whole thrust of this speech seemed to be to try to convey the impression that once we sign this agreement the 11c per lb represents some sort of minimum price. As I have said, it is no such thing at all. How is this Agreement, which controls only 20 per cent of the market, going to bridge the gap between the 8c per lb and the 1 1 c per lb on a falling market? Much of the production outside the International Sugar Agreement countries is held up by all sorts of supports and subsidies, particularly in the EEC, and the trend is for these supports and subsidies to be increasing rather than to be broken down. 
I believe that the Minister and the Government at large are guilty of grave sins of omission in presenting this Bill to the Parliament and to the industry. These omissions are set out in our amendment to the motion that the Bill be read a second time. The amendment states that we deplore the Government's failure, firstly, to secure a larger basic export tonnage as established under paragraph 1 of Article 34 of the Schedule; and, secondly, the failure to inform the cane growers that the loans available from the Stock Financing Fund under Article 53 may not cover the entire cost of holding stocks of sugar. The Minister has deliberately avoided coming to terms with quantifying the possible cost of storing huge quantities of sugar. The amendment states, thirdly, that we deplore the failure of the Government to announce any specific arrangements in the event of the loans from the Stock Financing Fund being less than the cost of storage. These pertinent questions have been avoided. Fourthly, we deplore the failure to acknowledge that the $US0. 1 1 per lb quota trigger price is not a guaranteed price and that the present world price is well below, and likely to remain below, $US0. 1 1 per lb. 
The sugar industry is a major industry in Australia and particularly in Queensland. It employs large numbers of people and huge amounts of capital. It is extremely important so far as our balance of payments is concerned. It is one of our major earners of export income in the primary production field. The people who are in the industry are locked into it, the same as people are in all primary industries today. They do not have the option of getting out of the industry and going into other forms of employment because under this Government's policy there are no other avenues  of  employment. They are stuck with the industry. They would be better able to survive if the Government were honest about the position, told them of the real situation and came up with propositions much more constructive than the sort of proposals embodied in this Bill. I strongly support the amendment proposed and recommend it to the House. 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
In the few minutes that I have I want to refer briefly to a complaint made in this House yesterday by the honourable member for Canberra  (Mr Haslem)  that the Australian National University halls of residence were competing unfairly with private enterprise and other residential accommodation such as motels, et cetera, in Canberra. That is predictable from the honourable member for Canberra who is seen as the champion of private enterprise. I think that in this case his complaint is completely unjustified. Obviously he is not aware of how these halls are run or he would not have made such a complaint. If he had taken the trouble to inquire he would have found that the halls are run separately from the education vote at the University. Not a penny of it is used to maintain these halls. They are run on a breakeven basis. They are carefully budgeted and in the budgetary arrangements allowance is made for interest, depreciation payments and maintenance costs, and, of course, they pay payroll tax the same as any other business. They are run on commercial lines and they have to make ends meet or close down. 
I do not know whether the honourable member for Canberra wants them to close down. The particular residences to which he referred, Burton and Garran halls, employ about 40 people. Their payrolls are spent in the community and no doubt some of the money finds its way into the coffers of some of the honourable member's many private enterprises in Canberra. So his complaint is against his own interest and against the public interest. All the residences are trying to do is to make ends meet so that there will not be a burden on the community and on the taxpayer at large. In doing that they depend to some extent on outside patronage. There is nothing new about this. They have always done it. 
Under the present system there are not as many students who can afford to patronise these halls. This has been brought about for a couple of reasons. Firstly, there has been very harsh application of the means test to people applying for tertiary allowances. The situation has reached the stage now where only the children of wealthy parents can afford to stay in these halls, can pay the cost of the full board that is supplied. The other difficulty is that in the past students were able to supplement their meagre incomes by part time work. But, of course, because of the Government's policies, there is no part time work in Canberra now and in fact 6,000 or 7,000 people are unemployed. So life is certainly not easy for students at the Australian National University. 
I would have thought that the honourable member for Canberra would have been encouraging the halls to seek extra patronage. The sort of patronage they are after is not the sort of patronage which motels are after. The people who would go to the two types of accommodation are completely different groups. School groups, people attending seminars or conferences, often are young people who cannot afford to patronise motels in any case. The halls want to bring new groups to Canberra who normally would not come to Canberra. That was the whole purpose of the circular sent out to honourable members- to try to direct some of the business their way. I do not see anything wrong in that being done. It should be encouraged. The honourable member for Canberra was completely out of court. All the normal charges are applied in trying to make ends meet. As I said, 40 people are employed in the halls. What the honourable member wants to do is to put more people on the unemployment list. 
He was complaining about competition and there is no basis for the complaint. They are not competing with motels. They are trying to attract new business to Canberra and they should be complimented and encouraged and not rubbished in this Parliament. I was quite disgusted at the response of the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley)  yesterday. I thought his remarks were unbecoming of him and highly insulting to the ANU. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I support the amendment moved by the Opposition to the motion for the second reading of the Pay-roll Tax (Territories) Assessment Amendment Bill 1978. Although the Bill is quite commendable in handing out something to business people who are in a very bad position in Canberra, these people would be much better off if the Government were to support our amendment. I sympathise with the honourable member for Canberra  (Mr Haslem).  Naturally, he would have sympathy for our amendment, but he is not able to support it. However, I could not quite accept his argument that the Bill is in keeping with the Government's economic policy and our amendment is not. I can say only that the Government's economic policy must be on a very fragile base if it is dependent upon the difference between the revenue which would be received through the enactment of the Government's Bill and the revenue which would be received as a result of our amendment to that Bill. That difference in revenue would be very minute in terms of the Government's Budget. 
I accept that the honourable member for Canberra is very anxious to promote the city of Canberra. Naturally he is, and so am I. Unfortunately he supports a government whose leader is committed to demoting Canberra and not promoting it. That has been the story ever since this Government was elected. There has been tremendous discrimination against Canberra, particularly against business, through the general cutting back in government expenditure, the way it reflects on turnover in the city, on the building trade and on employment opportunities generally. This legislation represents just one very small plus against a very large list of minuses which this Government has against it in relation to its consideration of the people of Canberra, particularly the small business people. 
In moving our amendment we are suggesting that the Australian Capital Territory payroll tax provision should be in Une with the Queensland payroll tax provision, with an exemption of $125,000 payroll per annum. All States have different exemption provisions. I draw attention to the fact that many of the growth centres in New South Wales have special exemptions for payroll tax. As Canberra was the original growth centre, it should be treated in the same way. Instead of being pacesetters in terms of payroll tax we have been lagging behind the field and we have been placed at a grave disadvantage. Every time we amend the payroll exemption for the Australian Capital Territory and bring it into line with somewhere else we find that the exemption in that place has moved on again, and we always lag behind. If we accepted the Opposition's amendment the Australian Capital Territory would move into the more progressive brackets of payroll exemption. When we think about it, the 5 per cent tax in effect means paying for one extra employee for every 20 employees, which is a very big burden on business in the present trading conditions. In actual money terms I think that Canberra pays somewhere around $ 1 5m per annum in payroll tax. It should be pointed out that by increasing the exemption the Federal Government would not in fact lose very much at all. It would be a temporary loss because the Government would receive an immediate rebate in the form of increased profits or increased employment in the community. I think our unemployment bill in Canberra is something like $19m. If we can create jobs we will save there as well as add to revenue from indirect taxes which emanate from improved business trading in Canberra. 
As I said, we have lagged behind the States. Small business in Canberra has been placed at a tremendous disadvantage. As the honourable member for Canberra said, the big businesses are able to look after themselves, but many small businesses were lured into Canberra with the prospect of a steady rate of growth. That just has not happened. Recently I was visited by a number of business people from our new industrial centre of Mitchell. They paid pretty big prices by way of annual rentals for leases. They are paying pretty high rates- something like $2,000 a year. Some of them borrowed money at very high rates of interest- 16 per cent and 17 per cent- to build their structures in which to conduct their businesses. Nothing happened. These people are out there like shags on rocks. No other business has developed, there is no street lighting and no public transport. They are sitting there with this tremendous debt around their necks and no growth at all, which is not what they anticipated when they made their investment. I am making representations to the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Ellicott)  now. I hope he will give them some sympathy because some concessions should be made to them. If we do not help them they will go into liquidation. Instead of the Department of the Capital Territory getting a lower rent it will get no rent at all. Some adjustment should be made to those rents in the light of present day trading conditions. The situation at Mitchell is typical of the way that business is struggling in Canberra. We are oversupplied with retail business premises because of this drastic slowdown in growth. It is having devastating effects on many small businesses indeed. 
Unfortunately, we have had no relief from previous Budgets. We seem to have had Ministers who have had no real sympathy for the Australian Capital Territory and who have not been able to influence the Cabinet to take some of the pressure off business and unemployment in the Australian Capital Territory. I am looking forward to the new Minister being more effective in that regard. I hope he has a bit more influence and a bit more pull in the Cabinet than former Ministers have had in getting some relief for the people of Canberra. I live in great hopes. I am confident that he will be more successful and that he will give us some relief because our businesses cannot go on under the present situation. If there is no relief we will have a great list of liquidations in Canberra. We have had a lot in the past 12 months. They will escalate. We will have many more in the next few months if we do not get some relief. I commend the amendment to the House as a means of providing to some small extent relief for the business people of Canberra and for the unemployment situation and of giving some small benefit to offset the many disadvantages that the business people have suffered under this Government. 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Is the Minister for Defence aware that postings of Royal Australian Air Force personnel scheduled for May and June have now been deferred until July? Is he aware that such personnel have been caused great personal inconvenience and subjected to financial losses through travelling to their new postings to make alternative housing and education arrangements and in the purchasing of school uniforms? Is he aware that many of these people have already packed their furniture and given away some of their furniture in their present accommodation? Have these postings been cancelled because of the lack of funds in the Department of Defence in the current Budget? Is this decision consistent with the Government's plans to purchase more VIP aircraft? 
by leave- I endorse the remarks of the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins).  I express my appreciation of the hospitality that was extended to us during our visit to Sofia. I must deplore the lack of appreciation by some members of the delegation of the hospitality extended to us. I particularly deplore the honourable member for Perth re-opening the debate on a particular issue and talking about double standards because when I attempted to have placed on the agenda the question of human rights in Timor I was not backed up by the Government supporters of the delegation. The honourable member for Perth did not support me on a human rights issue that lies on our doorstep, but he is very concerned about human rights in Russia, Israel and other parts of the world. 
Lest anybody thinks that delegate members can get up at an Inter-Parliamentary Union conference and debate any question at all, I state that this is nonsense. The Timor issue has never been on the agenda at IPU conferences. Even though the issue has been going on for three years it has never been on the agenda. When I tried to have it placed on the agenda I was supported by people from New Zealand, Portugal and some of the Scandinavian countries but Government supporters of the Australian delegation would not support me. So let us not have this nonsense about double standards. Honourable members opposite are the people who applied double standards to these issues. 
When I wanted to have this matter placed on the agenda a few people supported the move, a few more voted against it but a larger number of people abstained. This is a vital issue right on our doorstep which Government supporters who were members of the delegation did not want to have anything to do with. So people should not think that delegates can get up and talk about these things at IPU conferences whenever they want to because this issue has never been on the agenda and it never will get on the agenda because it is an issue that is embarassing to the Government and our own Government supporters would not support such a move. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Trade and Resources and I refer him to submissions by the Philippines Atomic Energy Commission to the International Atomic Energy Agency that since the Philippines is in a volcanic belt and has no stable salt rock formations, the long-term storage and disposal of its nuclear waste will depend on the establishment of an international burial site. Will the Minister assure this House that his Government will not allow Australia to become an international burial ground for nuclear waste and will not allow nuclear waste derived from any Australian uranium used in the Philippines to be dumped in Australia? Can the Minister inform the House where the nuclear waste from the Philippines will be stored and by what means? 
-On behalf of the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory, I present the Committee's report on proposals for variations of the plan of the layout of the City of Canberra and its environs- 65th series. A limited number of copies of the report is available from the Tables Office and copies have been placed in the Parliamentary Library. Additional copies will be available for general distribution in the very near future. 
Ordered that paper be printed. 
I ask leave of the House to make a short statement in connection with the report. 
Leave granted. 
-The report I have tabled is the first report to the present Parliament by the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory. It concerns proposals to vary the Canberra City Plan. This is the 65th series of such variations made to the plan since its adoption in 1925. The Committee report provides honourable members with information about the proposal contained in the instrument of variation of the Minister for Home Affairs and Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Ellicott).  These inquiries on the variations are becoming increasingly important to the Australian Capital Territory community. As the city and its population grow the planning and development proposals of the National Capital Development Commission and the Department of the Capital Territory tend to affect existing communities more directly than they have in the past when most development related to rural areas and did not affect established communities. 
The Committee sees it as essential therefore that it consult the community and obtain views on proposals put forward by the authorities. The Minister has co-operated in this regard and in the case of the 65th series extended the period within which objections might be lodged from 14 to 21 days. The extended period meant that the Lands, Planning and Environment Committee of the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly had time to complete its own examination of the proposals and to report to the Assembly. The Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory thus had the advantage of an Assembly view when considering the 65th series. 
The Committee has also modified its own procedures to ensure greater publicity for the proposals contained in the series. It now conducts public hearings when officers from the Department of the Capital Territory and the National Capital Development Commission and those who have lodged objections appear to make submissions to the Committee in an open forum. Inspections of the sites where controversial developments are proposed were also undertaken by the Committee. The Committee will continue to seek to involve the community further in its examination of such proposals. But the Committee is equally concerned that the authorities should consult individuals and communities affected by their proposals. In the current series, for instance, the Committee has recommended that two items be deferred until certain aspects have been taken up with the communities involved. The first of these involves the proposed group centre in the Belconnen suburb of Kaleen. The Committee considers that when retail centres are being planned after local communities have become established there should be consultation and liaison with the communities from the earliest stages of planning. The newly formed residents' association in Kaleen raised a number of pertinent objections to the proposal for the group centre as presented in the series. We have recommended that implementation of the proposal be deferred pending further consultations with this group and others who are affected. 
A proposal that would have enabled boom gate parking to be installed in the city centre near Marcus Clarke Street and Childers Street has also been recommended for deferral by the Committee. The National Capital Development Commission submitted that implementation of the proposal would have meant that it could establish boom gate parking in the area when the need arises. The Committee considers that this proposal should be deferred until the need has in fact been more clearly established. 
We have also sought from the National Capital Development Commission a full report on future development proposals for the recreation area associated with Ginninderra Creek. This is one of the most important recreation areas on the north side of Canberra and the Committee is concerned about its preservation as an area for recreational use and that it should not be affected adversely by further residential development. It has therefore sought from the Commission a full report on developments proposed for the area. This arose in connection with proposals for new housing in Latham which have caused concern to local groups because of encroachment on the existing recreational area. The Committee has agreed to the variations proposed but has expressed the view that no development in relation to these and related areas should proceed until a detailed plan of the whole area has been published. 
The work done by this Committee at times results in difficulties with groups of residents who object to proposals which the Committee considers, in the wider interest, should be implemented. We have endorsed two proposals in the current series in the face of strong objections from local residents. One relates to the proposed access road to the Kambah Pool and the other to a proposed development for 35 detached housing blocks in section 266, Kambah. Our reasons for upholding the proposed variations are explained in the report. But in each case we have sought to ensure that there is continuing consultation between residents and relevant authorities so that people affected by the proposed variations can be assured their views will be heard on important issues as development proceeds. 
Other major items which are dealt with in the current series include proposals for the establishment of a new residential area in Isaacs and substantial residential developments in Holt and Florey.  Major roadworks  include the reconstruction, realignment and upgrading of Fairbairn Avenue and the realignment of Majura Road and of the Paddys River Road to the Tidbinbilla Nature Reserve. I commend the report to the House. 
-It is very significant, I think, that when the Government brings forward typically repressive legislation aimed at public servants in the national capital, in the seat of government in Canberra, when hundreds of thousands of people throughout Australia are employed as public servants in every State, very few supporters of the Government come into the House even to listen to the debate. The Government can produce only three speakers, one of whom, the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns),  to his credit, showed a little compassion for public servants. 
Yes, it was a very fine speech but he was reprimanded for saying something compassionate about public servants. But the most notable point, of course, is that the Government supporter who represents 50 per cent of the people of Canberra and who obviously supports the Bill has not seen fit to say a few words in support of it. Of course, he is the champion of private enterprise in Canberra and he would agree entirely with this Bill. Undoubtedly he supports it but he will not come in and speak for it publicly- a rather regrettable situation. I think many honourable members will have read the very fine articles published in the  National Times  in the last two weeks by  Mr Clem  Lloyd, one of our foremost scholars on government, a man of very wide experience, who pointed out, I think very rightly, the dangers inherent in the way the Executive is taking over the Parliament. This Bill is a typical example of what happens when, by due process of law, a decision is made which does not please the Government. In that case the Government just changes the law. It does so with a great deal of contempt. It is passing this Bill with hardly anybody in the chamber to listen to the debate, not even the honourable member who represents half the public servants in Canberra. 
I think it is fair to say that this Bill destroys the facade that this Government really believes in arbitration, that it really believes in the due process of law, that it supports law and order. Above all the Bill shows quite clearly that the Government does not adhere to the process of arbitration. This Bill points up quite brutally the determination of this Government to undermine and destroy the arbitration procedures which have been followed meticulously by the union in this case. If the arbitration procedures do not bring about decisions that suit the Government, it changes the law and that is what has happened. This matter is a classic example. The union went to arbitration. The arbitrator made a decision. The union was of the opinion on good legal advice that the decision was incorrect. It did not go on strike; it took the matter to the High Court. It followed the due process of the law. At its own risk and at considerable cost the union took the matter to the High Court and the High Court, of course, upheld the union's point that the right of appeal was a fundamental condition of employment. How the Government could decide otherwise I do not know. Apparently it was not aware of the 1922 decision, No. 23, which was a determination concerning the Australian Postal Electricians Union's claim against the Commonwealth Public Service Commissioner and the Postmaster-General of the Commonwealth. 
It is all documented and the Minister has disclaimed knowledge of it. How the Government could not have had that sort of advice I do not know. Apparently its legal advice on this occasion was not quite as sound as that given in 1975 when it succeeded in throwing out a democratically elected government. The union members went to the court. The High Court upheld their appeal and costs were awarded against the Government. The Court gave very sound judicial reasons for upholding the appeal. It said that the right of appeal is a fundamental condition of employment, particularly in the Public Service where there is a tremendously wide range of opportunities and a wide range of qualifications required to fill various positions. In placing this Bill before the Parliament, the Government is virtually thumbing its nose at the decision of the High Court. It is saying, in effect: All right, you won that time but you will not win next time. We will fix it so that you do not win next time.' In effect it is taking away the right of the unions to appeal in a similar case to this one using the same process that was followed here. In effect that will completely undo the decision of the High Court in a most contemptuous way. 
The Government claims that it must have the power to control promotions and appeals. Of course, this is nonsense. It has precisely those powers now in relation to other conditions of employment. Why it should select this particular condition of employment for special reasons, I do not know. If we look at conditions in relation to salaries we will find that the Public Service Board can determine salaries, people can appeal against such determinations and the arbitrator can make a decision. He can support the Public Service Board or he can support the union. The same process is followed in the national wage case. The Government has that power; it is the normal process which is taken in relation to promotions. The Board can make promotions. People can appeal against those promotions and go to a proper board for a decision to be made. To say that the Government needs special conditions for this particular condition of service is nonsense. It could quite easily have accepted the decision of the High Court. The Government may not have been sure that the right of appeal was a condition of service, but the High Court said that it was. Why did the Government not accept that decision gracefully and carry on in the way it does with all other conditions of service where it has the power to set salaries or make promotions and where people have the right of appeal against such decisions. 
The stand down provisions rather concerned the honourable member for Lilley because they do penalise the innocent parties in disputes. These provisions typify the Government's innate hatred of and its abrasive attitude towards working people generally and the Public Service in particular. They are part of the Government's determination to undermine the public servants' hard won conditions and to cut back on hard won reforms that have been gained over many years of experience. They follow the Commonwealth Employees (Provisions) Act and the amendment to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, both of which cut down on the rights and privileges of public servants. The other argument used by the Government is that what it wants to do is in the interests of efficiency. It is rather laughable that it should invoke efficiency in support of this Bill. Is there anything inherently efficient about employing an outsider in a position on the assumption that he may have had experience in industry or commerce? I do not know in what area of industry or commerce one would get the sort of experience that one would need in a Commonwealth Employment Office. I do not know whether the Government contemplates employing people who have worked in private employment offices where a profit is made out of people who are unemployed. I do not know whether they would be suitable people to bring in to the Commonwealth Employment Service. I could not imagine many people wanting that job. It is not a terribly highly paid job. It is certainly not a fat cat job; it is only a Class 4 position, which is a very middle standard. 
The salary is about average weekly earnings. It is by no means a fat cat position, which our friends opposite like to talk about. Surely it is not the intention of the Norgard report that these people should be employed in that particular area and to carry out that particular function. I think the Government is drawing a long bow in trying to invoke the Norgard report in support of this repressive legislation. Efficiency is much more closely related to many other aspects of the Public Service. One of the greatest reasons for loss of efficiency in the Public Service now is the imposition of staff ceilings. In our own Department of the Capital Territory I fail to see what is very efficient about not having staff to collect overdue rates or to prepare urgent legislation which will allow the Government to operate smoothly. Today somebody told me that correspondence which they had written 10 days ago had not been posted because of the shortage of staff in a particular department. Surely that is not efficiency. It is not efficient to have property of the Commonwealth deteriorating because we cannot get a few bob to paint it or to do some minor repairs. These are the basic inefficiencies in the Public Service now. It is not because of the way that we appoint people. It is because we have staff ceilings. It is because we do not have enough people, not because we do not have the right people. This, too, is a non-argument. 
The other thing that I would like to refer to is the inconsistency of this Bill when compared with the movement over the last 10 years towards trying to increase the civil liberties of public servants generally throughout the world and not just in Australia. There has been considerable progress. The International Labour Organisation has been working towards a draft paper or a convention which will cover the employment of public servants and which will give them greater civil liberties. We have contributed to that. We have sent people to these conventions each year. They have served on committees. This has been going on for years. There has been a movement towards greater civil liberties for public servants. Now the Government comes along and turns the clock back on all the progress that has been made over many years. That is consistent, as I said, with the Government's determination to undermine the basic civil rights and individual liberties of workers generally and public servants in particular. The Government wants to bludgeon the Public Service into submission, to deny it the right to withhold its labour, to wave the big stick at it. Then the Government has the hide to talk about efficiency and to expect efficiency. I oppose this Bill. It is a disgrace which is typical of the Government's attitude towards the Public Service. It deserves the condemnation of all reasonable people. 
I wish to indicate very strong opposition by the Australian Labor Party to clause 8. Although it concerns only a couple of words they are of tremendous importance and they affect the whole control of the Bank. Under the original Act the Treasurer had the authority to provide funds for the Bank by way of grant or loan from the Government and, of course, the Treasurer being responsible to the Parliament, it meant that the Bank had a direct responsibility to the Parliament. Where the Act now reads 'as he determines'- meaning the Treasurer- the amending legislation substitutes as are determined by the Treasurer and agreed to by the bank'. We all know from other amendments that when we say 'agreed to by the Bank', what in effect we are saying is 'as agreed to by the majority of private bank representatives on the board of the Primary Industry Bank'. That is an outrageous proposition and it was the basis of the amendment moved by the Opposition in the second reading stage of the debate. 
I must congratulate the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock)  as being the only member of the Government who was prepared to stand up for his principles. When we moved an amendment that the primary producers' representation should be increased he was the only member of the Government to cross the floor and vote with the Opposition. Where is the loyalty of the National Country Party members when we moved an amendment to increase their representation on the board and they reject it? There were only about 50 of 90 members of the Government parties in the chamber anyway. But it was good to see at least one of those members prepared to stand up to his convictions and support our amendment seeking greater primary producer representation. I hope that the constituents of these so-called representatives of the primary industries are aware that an amendment moved by the Labor Party to increase their representation was rejected by their own representatives. It is a shameful situation. 
In his second reading speech the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  attempted to assure honourable members that there is no change in the objectives which the new Bank is intended to achieve. Throughout the history of this legislation, first as the Australian Rural Bank Act, now to be the Primary Industry Bank Act, there has been nothing but vague and confused assertions about the objectives and aims of the Bank. On 2 November 1977  Mr Lynch,  the then Treasurer, said that the Government's general aim was to keep interest rates to primary producers as low as practicable- which, of course, says nothingconsistent with relevant considerations. That is typical Treasury jargon. According to  Mr Lynch  the precise range and type of lenders granted access to the funds would be a matter for consideration. What does that mean? Honourable members can understand it is very difficult to judge whether there has been any change in objectives because we never quite knew what the objectives were. 

 Mr Lynch at the time did tell us something about the original Act when there was some forethought about the present amendment. We were told that the Bank would not lend directly but would borrow funds for lending to other financial institutions  which would in turn on-lend  funds to farmers.  Mr Lynch  said that the Bank would work through existing institutions and not in competition with them. We have been told now that this Bill is unique in the way in which it works with private banking institutions. It is certainly unique; it is far more than unique. It is outrageous that a government should amend this Act to give the private banking representatives a majority on the board of a government Bank. It is something that everybody should be objecting to particularly the members of the National Country Party. 
Whether we get any money will depend on what the private trading bank members on the board think. If they do not want us to have money they have the power to stop us from having money. That is the whole point. This is precisely the point that the honourable member for Lyne made- what is the point of having the Bank when there are plenty of other institutions available to do the same thing? It is a facade. 
I know that it is uncomfortable; I know that you do not like it but the facts are there. The Government has tried to stack the board with the interests of the private trading banks. It has been under pressure from them and it has deferred to their wishes. The Bank could have been effective. If the Government had provided the Bank with an expert field valuing staff as operates in the Rural Bank of New South Wales and let those people determine who gets a loan, we may have achieved something. But there is no expert staff whatsoever in this Bank. We are entirely dependent on the decisions of private banks and they will use the same sort of yardsticks as they have always used. They sit in their offices and they use the rule of thumb method that one gets 60 per cent or two-thirds at the most of their valuation on one's property. They allow a very wide margin of safety and this will not be of any help whatever to the farmers who are in real need. 
All that will happen is that the private banks will have the opportunity of off-loading their weak customers. They will off-load their biggest risks on to the funds available in the Primary Industry Bank. The Government has put the private trading bank representatives on that board to ensure that that is what happens. That is what they will do. So in effect all that the Bank will do is subsidise the profits of private banks. They are doing all right now and they will do a little better under this arrangement. I notice that all the banks are doing fairly well. The Bank of New South Wales, despite the recession and everything else, a couple of weeks ago announced that it had increased its profit by 22 per cent. So everything is left in the hands of the private banks and instead of using specialists in valuation to make the Bank of some real assistance to primary producers, the Government has handed it over to the private banks. There is no question about that. 
There are a number of other matters to which I want to refer. A very minute amount of money is to be provided for the Bank initially. I do not know how much money the Government is aiming to use. There is no indication of the amount of money to be made available; there is no indication of the interest rates and there is no indication of the terms of the loans. There has been some indication that they will either be at low interest rates and over short terms or at high interest rates and over long terms. Of course, what is needed is both. The primary producers need low interest loans and they need long term loans. This applies particularly to the cattle industry which, as everybody knows, is a very long term cycle industry. It takes several years, perhaps a decade, for the industry to go through a particular cycle. It is going through an extremely bad cycle at the moment and I do not think this Bank will have the funds to assist it. Cattle producers were in a bad way before the bluetongue situation arose and now the bluetongue situation has placed the whole of the livestock export from the northern States at risk. It has almost ceased. There is very little export of livestock being carried on. The sale of frozen meat has virtually finished; the producers have had very little share of that Here they are with highly stocked properties and a very dismal outlook. 
This has been brought about in many ways by the lack of Government action in relation to bluetongue. The Government could have sent an officer overseas to try to keep these markets open and it refused to do so. Bluetongue is a tremendous potential threat to Australian primary industries. It is not that it is killing cattle or that there is anything obviously wrong with the cattle afflicted, but we all know that the danger is that the bluetongue virus will get into the sheep country. If that happens it will be a calamity for Australia. It has already been identified in the Northern Territory and in Queensland and I suggest that it is only a matter of time- it could happen at any time- when it will be identified in New South Wales in the sheep country and that could be disastrous. These are the sorts of very difficult situations with which this Bank may be called upon to deal and it will not have the facilities to do so. 
Many producer organisations are opposed to this Bill. They see it as a facade. In its total concept it is a charade, and a very costly charade. It will cost money to administer and all it will achieve is that private banks will be able to unload their weak customers. It is patently obvious that this is a second rate piece of window dressing. It is a band-aid type response to a difficult problem in terms of responsible legislation, which it is not. The structure of the board is outrageous. It is a complete sell-out to the private banks and will be seen as such by responsible organisations. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
Clause agreed to. 
Remainder of Bill- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Health. I refer him to the recommendation of the National Health and Medical Research Council that a national repository be established for the storage of hazardous long-lived radioactive waste produced in Australia. Can the Minister inform the House whether the Government is giving consideration to the establishment of such a repository in the Australian Capital Territory? Has any State suggested to the Commonwealth that a national radioactive waste repository be established in the Australian Capital Territory? Will the residents of the Australian Capital Territory be given an opportunity to express their views on whether the Australian Capital Territory should become the nation's garbage dump for radioactive waste? 
-I am very pleased to support this legislation because it is one of the few progressive pieces of legislation which I have seen come into this House in recent times. I think we should be grateful to both the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham)  and  I  the honourable member for Leichhardt  (Mr i  Thomson) for stressing the tremendous potential  danger of this disease, the disastrous effects it is already having on the beef industry in certain parts of Australia and more importantly the &lt; potentially calamitous effects it could have if it got into the sheep industry. I am afraid that the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  has been less than frank in pointing out the potential dangers, and certainly his second reading speech did nothing really when it comes to telling the people of Australia and this Parliament what the potential danger is. In the second reading speech the Minister claimed that the Government is making payments to producers to prevent the spread of bluetongue. What the payments will do of course will help to identify the extent of the bluetongue virus in the cattle and to monitor its presence. These payments certainly will not prevent the spread of the disease, as is implied in the second reading speech. 
As the honourable member for Leichhardt has pointed out, this virus was detected because some sandfly midges, as they are known, were collected in 1975 and were sent overseas in a routine sort of process. Over two years later we suddenly discover that this potentially calamitous virus is present in these samples. The tragedy of the situation is that we had to wait for two years to find out the potential danger of this disease. We know that the sandfly has been identified as a vector. As the honourable member for Leichhardt pointed out, in the sample that went overseas there were a number of sandfly varieties, and even now we do not know which variety carried this virus. So the situation in that respect just points up the gross inadequacy of our facilities carrying out these tests in Australia. It is quite frightening to think that we had to wait for two years to discover this potential threat, bearing in mind the implications of this disease. I want to say more about that later. 
I should like to point out the fallacy in the speech of the honourable member for Leichhardt in relation to the potential threat in New South Wales. He pointed out that another virus had been identified in cattle in New South Wales, but he did not point out that this is a different virus from the one that has been identified in the Northern Territory and that if it is the one that we suspect it to be then it is one that is extremely virulent in sheep in overseas countries. This does not seem to have been made public. I believe that is the situation. We are waiting to verify whether what we suspect- that is, that that virus is of the virulent type- is correct. It is not true to say that the viruses that have been identified in Australia are harmless or potentially harmless. In relation to the virus discovered in New South Wales, in fact the position is quite the opposite. The Minister in his second reading speech goes on to say that there is absolutely no evidence of bluetongue in Australia. Whilst this may be true in the field the Minister would be aware- I think he should inform the House- that the disease has become evident in sheep in Australia when artificially infected in the laboratory. So there is evidence it could become prevalent. There is present in Australia the virus that will infect sheep in suitable circumstances. So the potential danger is very great and the Minister should not just gloss over that possibility as he has done in his speech. I do not think he has done justice to the pastoral industry in New South Wales in particular in playing down the importance of the possible significance of the detection of the virus in cattle in that State. I think he should have informed the House that the virus detected in New South Wales is believed to be one of a type which is known to be extremely virulent in affecting sheep in overseas countries. The tragedy, of course, is that there will be another delay while we verify the identity of those viruses. All of these events point to the fact that the Government is lagging behind the event. 
There is no specific provision in this Bill to apply the subsidies to New South Wales. The subsidies apply only to the Northern Territory, Queensland and Western Australia. I would like to refer to the rather sad history of the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories project which has been lagging along since as far back as 1968. We are now paying the price for the procrastination and the humbug that went on about that project. I think it was apparent in 1968 that these sorts of facilities would be necessary to deal with the bluetongue situation. But it was 1 973 before the plans were changed to accommodate work on exotic diseases in large animals. It was not until 1976 that further essential changes to the plan were made. Now we are told, of course, that it will take many years, even when those facilities are completed, before we will be able to develop a vaccine to deal with this potential threat of the bluetongue disease. So we have lagged years and years behind. Now the threat has suddenly come to light and we have been caught napping. It is worth mentioning that the report of the independent inquiry on the operations of the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories and the capital works program contained some very scathing remarks about the way in which policy decisions were arrived at and planning took place on that project. 
The honourable member for Leichhardt mentioned the devastating effects that the bluetongue threat had on the beef industry in the Northern Territory because it has virtually cut off the market for live beef to many South East Asian countries. Of course, he did not say that this has played right into the hands of the carcass exporters because it now removes any competition they had in the market and the producers are at the mercy of the exporters, as they have been for many years. I have pointed out in the House on many occasions the way in which the share of the consumer's dollar has moved towards the middle man or the exporter rather than the producer. The producer's share has dropped by some 50 per cent and the meat processor's share has gone up by some 300 per cent over a certain period. I think the trend has continued over the last couple of years. This will just make the situation even worse. The producer could either sell his livestock to the meatworks or send it overseas. That option is not available now and he is at the mercy of the meat processors. The meat processors, of course, have a limited market or outlet. The other worrying aspect is that because of this situation many properties are severely or extensively overstocked. If there is a very dry period, particularly in the centre of Australia, the whole place could become a dust bowl and losses of gigantic proportions could occur. There is the potential for further calamity in the beef industry. 
I would like to refer briefly to the three strands of support that the Government is offering to the producers. The Government will offer a mustering bounty of $3 a head. However, there is to be a ceiling of $3,000 which makes this proposal relevant only to fairly small producers- people with up to 1,000 head of stock to muster. I suppose that this bounty will help to keep the wolf from the door of the small producer. But the bounty will be rather irrelevant to people who may have 50,000 or 100,000 head of stock. The subsidy, with a limit of $3,000, will not be very significant in their case. 
The Government also proposes a $5 per head subsidy to meet the costs incurred in survey and surveillance blood testing and a $10 per head subsidy for movement testing to export markets. This form of assistance is certainly much less discriminatory. I think it is quite commendable. A total of $15 per head is most significant in anyone's language. The Government's intention to provide funds for the acquisition of virus testing laboratory equipment is, of course, acceptable but again it has come too late. These funds should have been provided years ago. We should not wait for an emergency before we make such funds available to the cattle industry. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
Before the suspension of the sitting I was referring to the difficult situation in which the beef industry finds itself throught the lack of suitable facilities for dealing with the emergency that has now arisen in relation to bluetongue. Whilst it is commendable that the Government has now provided funds for the laboratories to be set up so that the testing can be carried out much more quickly, it is a case of too little too late. The laboratories should have been established. There are plenty of people who said they should have been, but nothing was done until the emergency arose. 
Another thing I would like to comment on briefly is the fact that whilst it is fair enough for the States to share the cost- this is what the Bill provides for- I think it is rather unfair that the Northern Territory, which is bearing the brunt of the bluetongue problems, should be asked to share the cost on the eve of its going into a state of self-government. It would have been much more appropriate had the Australian Government continued to support the bluetongue program for a somewhat longer period in the Northern Territory in view of the extra difficulties that the Territory faces in moving on to a degree of self-government. 
Another problem is that it is one thing to subsidise the producers- that is very commendable -to meet some of the costs associated with the bluetongue program, but it is another thing to expect the public servants, the staffs of the various government bodies who have to administer the scheme, to do so without any increases in their numbers. I understand there are grave staff shortages in areas where various government bodies are concerned with the actual testing for bluetongue and the results of the tests have been delayed considerably because there are not enough people physically to handle all the work that is required. There have been considerable delays between taking the actual blood samples from the animals and finding out whether they have the virus or not. I think to be fair to the various State agriculture departments or the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation or which ever bodies are involved in the testing process, reasonable adjustments should be made in staff ceilings and in funds to sustain more staff. 
In conclusion, I would suggest that the Minister and the Government have never been the initiators in the bluetongue campaign. They have never taken the lead in dealing with the problem. They have always been pushed along by primary producer organisations such as the Cattlemen's Union of Australia and the Northern Territory bluetongue committees. These people are to be commended for taking the initiative and putting pressure on the Government and forcing it to take some action. Instead of playing the lead and taking the initiative, the Government has been very remiss. It has had to be pushed into action all the way along the line. 
I believe the Minister has been less than frank in informing the Parliament and the primary producers of the potential calamity in our sheep industry. If there is a potential for the virus which has been identified or found to be present in cattle in New South Wales to be transmitted to sheep, that is a very dangerous situation. I think the Minister should have been much more frank in pointing out to the public of Australia and this Parliament the potential danger in that respect. The Minister in his second reading speech said that the New South Wales incident indicates that we are not necessarily dealing with a static situation. That is a gross understatement of the facts. We are dealing with a very dynamic situation and one of great potential danger to the sheep industry and this is what the Minister should have been saying to the Parliament. 
I support the amendments. I am rather sorry that the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  sought to confuse the issue. The effect of the amendment that my colleague has moved is quite clear. All we are trying to do is ensure that the ultimate authority rests with the Australian Parliament, not with the Administrator or the Governor-General. The ultimate right of veto must rest with the elected Parliament. This must be so if we are not to create a new State in the Northern Territory. We are not pretending to do that. No one is kidding himself: It is not to be a sovereign State. Therefore, sovereignty remains within the Parliament and the right of veto should properly remain in the hands of the Parliament, rather than of someone else. 
I note that the second reading speech contains a statement that the Government would expect the Administrator to act on the advice of his Northern Territory Ministers. We know from bitter experience that that expectation is not always fulfilled. The Administrator, in common with the Governor-General, may not, in certain situations, act on advice of his Ministers. We know from experience that sometimes he acts on advice from people who are not representative of or elected by the people of Australia- with quite disastrous results. We are trying to protect the Northern Territory Administration from an unfortunate experience of that kind. 
Generally, of course, I support the Bill. My only regret is that we are not debating a measure that will give self-government to the Australian Capital Territory. However, I know that the Minister for Home Affairs and Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Ellicott)  is watching the developments closely and I hope that, in the light of the experience with this Bill, it may not be too long a time before we will be debating a similar measure to give self-government to the Australian Capital Territory. They are, of course, very different kinds of territories, but have many things in common. One, in particular, is that for many years we have been discriminated against. We join the Minister in congratulating those who have over many years conducted the fight for self-government in the Territory. 
The Minister said that in 1974 the Labor representation was annihilated. That was wishful thinking, of course. It might have been temporarily indisposed, but certainly was not annihilated. Labor is alive and well in the Territory.  Mr Isaacs  and his colleagues are doing a wonderful job of representing the people who put them into power, and trying to play their role in developing a sound basis of self-government for the people of the Northern Territory. 
The Minister did acknowledge the very important role that over the years the Labor Party had played in the movement towards selfgovernment for the Territory and noted that the first Legislative Council had been established in 1947 under the Chifley Government; that it was in 1974 that further progress was made. So this is the result of a long struggle by many people of all political persuasions. I congratulate them on their efforts. 
One of the most pressing problems, of course, concerns financial arrangements. We have the same problem here. Whatever arrangements are made, it is important to develop a formula whereby the people of the Northern Territory will know where they stand; so there will not every year be a hassle as to how much they will receive. A formula which relates in some way to the many disabilities experienced in the Territory, as well as its population, should be developed. One cannot relate government grants simply to the number of people in the Territory. It has fewer people than in my one electorate of Fraser here in Canberra. We must take into account such disabilities as the size of the Territory, its population, the tyranny of distance which, as has been mentioned, operate on many aspects of the way in which people live in the Territory. Also to be considered are transport costs, the isolation, the cost of communication, the general cost of living and, of course, the climate. 
We must also remember that the Territory occupies a unique place in the geography of Australia. In many ways it is our frontier, the first point of contact that the people of many important South East Asian nations have with Australia. Many of the main political issues of the day are centred on Darwin and the Northern Territory. The problem of the Vietnamese refugees is just one. It is of great concern to people of the Territory inasmuch as it could lead to the introduction of both human and animal exotic diseases. The issue of surveillance is centred on Darwin. Unfortunately, we have very little to show in that regard; but that is where it is all happening. Other important issues which arise in that area include the great question of Aboriginal land rights, what to do with our uranium, the bluetongue problem and the illegal importation of drugs, plants and animals. All these things give the Northern Territory a tremendous political importance which far overshadows the question of the number of people who live there. Recently I visited the Northern Territory and had the good fortune to see the beautiful national park at Kakadu, which must be one of the most beautiful in the world. The Northern Territory has a special responsibility to see that it is protected, in the interests of the Australian people. 
In regard to the method of election, I would like to comment on the size of the electorates and the fact that they are to be single-member electorates. I do not support that policy. I believe that, given the geography of the Territory, there would be much more stable government if they were to be multi-member electorates. I do not mean to go to the extreme, as we have done in the Australian Capital Territory, with electorates for the Legislative Assembly that are equivalent to Federal electorates, where we have nine members. That, I think, unduly favours independent members. I think this legislation has gone to the other extreme, with single member electorates, because when there is a swing in the political pendulum there tends to be a situation in which the winner takes all and one party may not be represented at all. I think the happy medium is to have electorates with four or five representatives so that there is good representation from the main political parties but in which a strong independent will always win a seat. That is the sort of system I would like to see in both Canberra and the Northern Territory. It is very good to see the Northern Territory starting off on the right foot, with members being full-time and giving them reasonable rates of pay. I think that is a very progressive move. I hope that it will be emulated by the Minister for Home Affairs and Minister for the Capital Territory when he puts up a proposition in relation to self-government for the Capital Territory. That is the only way in which to get sound administration- from good quality people, in full-time positions. 
I believe that nobody could deal adequately with all the problems or issues which I have mentioned unless they are employed on a full-time basis. The responsibility for education and health are being left up in the air at the moment. I think this is probably a wise decision in the short term, but certainly in the long term I would like to see both health and education made responsible to the elected people of the Northern Territory. The elected representatives know the needs and aspirations of the people, in terms of health services and education, and they are in a better position to respond to the needs of the people rather than to have those decisions made by people in Canberra. 
I know that there are some objections to the Ashmore and Cartier Islands being left in the hands of the Commonwealth Government, which I think is fair enough, but if the Government is to have responsibility for them it should effectively carry out surveillance of the islands because we do have information that from time to time they are used by Indonesian fishermen. There is the question of potential mineral rights. There may be some environmental problems, I do not know. Some interest should be maintained in those Islands by the Northern Territory Administration. I think some compromise solution involving the Northern Territory Administration and the Federal Government could be reached. Certainly the ultimate authority would lie in the hands of the Australian Government, but a very important role in the management of those islands should be left in the hands of the Assembly. 
I would like to wish the people of the Northern Territory well. They have tremendous problems on their hands. I have great faith in the fact that if people are elected they will act responsibly. If they do not carry out their job the people have the right of recall. People tend to emphasise the cost of self-government, without putting any emphasis on possible savings. I think there is tremendous potential for savings by the cost of self-government being subject to much closer scrutiny by elected members. The devastating report presented in this House this morning about the horrors of the forestry project in the Northern Territory is a good illustration of how there can be savings. 
Amendments negatived. 
I address my question to the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. I remind him that it is now five months since the Government made the shameful decision to give de facto recognition to the unlawful integration of Portuguese East Timor into Indonesia. As the Government claimed at that time that this decision would facilitate the reunification of Timorese families, I now ask the Minister: Firstly, how many East Timorese families, if any, have been reunited since the integration was recognised? Secondly, how many East Timorese people in Australia wish to return to that part of East Timor under Indonesian control? Thirdly, how many East Timorese people in Portugal have been reunited with families in Australia since the recognition? 
-I support the matter of public importance raised by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden),  that the Government has failed to respond to the rural crisis. It was very disappointing to hear the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  skate over the serious problems, which really highlighted his own abysmal performance in looking after the interests of primary producers. One of the sad features of his speech was that he talked mainly about primary producers and rural producers and said very little about the rural community. Of course, the Opposition is talking not just about the crisis amongst primary producers but about the crisis in the whole of the rural community. Those people now have the dubious privilege of becoming the new poor, or the poverty stricken sector, in the Australian community. 
It is not just the rural producers but the whole rural community that is affected. The families of the producers, the families of rural workers, the businesses in the country towns, the builders and other tradesmen are the people who feel the brunt of the failure of the Government to protect the rural industry. They have to move out and try to start a new way of life. This is an historical process and we do not blame the Government for it, but I think that the Government has failed to acknowledge the significance of the historical change, of people moving out of the rural sector. It has failed to acknowledge that when there is a decline in the rural sector and people move out, populations decline, businesses close down, schools close down, transport services are suspended, petrol costs rise and generally costs of living rise. The other very important historical factor is the change in the age structure of the people who are left on the land. An interesting survey by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics showed that the 25 per cent in the older sector are now over 63 years of age, and even in the 25 per cent  of  the younger sector the average age is 34. This move out of the rural sector has serious implications for the whole of the Australian  social structure. One cannot blame the Government for that. It is an historical process that has gone on for a long time throughout the whole world. 
However, we blame the Government for its failure to acknowledge the long term problems, for its failure to come to grips with the long term solutions that are required and for its persistence with either benign neglect or temporary bandaid measures to deal with these problems. This merely perpetuates the status quo in the rural industries and leaves people who are trapped in the rural sector with no real option of getting out. Quite often these people have huge assets on paper which they cannot realise. Of course, there was a time when they could move out, cut their losses and get into some other employment, but that option is not available to them now because of the present employment situation. Under the Labor Government they could come to Canberra and get a job. They certainly could not do that now, and I would not advise any rural producers to try to do that, because there are 7,000 people unemployed here. So they do not have that option now to get out into some other way of life or some other occupation. 
It was rather ironical to hear the Minister talking about those areas of the primary sector which are stable. Of course there are some very stable areas in the primary sector. I refer particularly to the wheat industry and the wool industry. If one looks at the history of those industries one will find that their stability is due to the legislation introduced by previous Labor governmentsALP initiatives dating back to the post-war Chifley Government. These initiatives have established stabilised marketing conditions without undue restrictions on the procedures and allowing them their traditional freedom of choice as to how much and what they grow. At times we have had to license wheat growers, but that is not a problem now. Both the wheat industry and the wool industry are stable industries thanks to the foresight and the legislation initiated by Labor governments, not by Liberal and National Country Party governments. 
By contrast with these two stable industries there are many disaster areas in the rural industries. The Minister quite rightly referred to the fact that the beef industry is a disaster area. What has happened to the beef industry is a calamity. The horticulture industry is in a mess, as are the pome fruits and dried fruits industries. The dairy industry is struggling on with the aid of stabilisation funds. The sugar industry is having a bad time. Vegetable producers are at the mercy of contract canning companies in the main. Poultry farmers are in a mess. The Victorian Egg Board is sending eggs up to Canberra and selling them at a loss in order to undercut local producers in Canberra, contrary to an agreement made with the Australian Agricultural Council that it would not indulge in price cutting in Canberra. 
Let me refer again to the beef industry. I know that the Minister is concerned about the beef industry, but what has the Government done? It acted far too late in relation to the bluetongue problem, and this has had a devastating effect on sales of live cattle overseas. It has played right into the hands of the meat exporters who now have no competition in the north and can offer the producers any price. The attitude is: 'Take it or leave it'. Over the last few years the beef exporters have done extremely well out of the poverty of the producers. That position will be exaggerated now with bluetongue cutting off the live market for many of the producers. Some of this problem could have been avoided if the Government had allowed the chief veterinary officer of the Northern Territory to go overseas and explain the problem to overseas markets, but this was not allowed. The Government stopped from going overseas the officer who was trying to save the producers some of their markets. The Minister has never responded to this charge, but this man was not allowed to go overseas to save the market until it was far too late. The Minister has failed to properly appraise the Australian primary producers- the beef producers- of the potential risk of the bluetongue virus that has been discovered in New South Wales. I believe it is similar to a very virulent form of virus that is found overseas, and it would be a great calamity if it moved into the sheep industry. The Minister has tended to play this down. 
Then we have the disgraceful episode of amending the structure of the Primary Industry Bank to virtually hand it over to the private bankers. When we tried to move an amendment to give primary producers greater representation on the board of the Primary Industrys Bank, all our friends from the National Country Party sat there like dummies and would not support the amendment. They would not support extra representation for their own people on that board. I except the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock).  He was the only one who was prepared to support a very reasonable amendment. I think that the Minister was quite misleading when he tried to imply that the International Sugar Agreement puts some sort of floor price on sugar. It does not. The situation with regard to superphosphate is quite farcical. Last week the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  said that he was trying to justify the support of the Duchess project by saying that Christmas Island will run out in 1984-85. This week he says that it will last until about 1 989. He is using that as an excuse for not supporting the Duchess project. I think Australian primary producers are entitled to a very clear statement of what the long-term prospects are for superphosphate supplies in Australia. We have not had that clear statement. All we have had is a complete reversal of the Government's attitude to the Duchess project. 
It is not just the Minister who has sold out the primary producers and their National Country Party colleagues in this Parliament. Our roving Prime Minister has also sold them out with his interference with the Industries Assistance Commission and his rejection of their arguments against unjustifiable tariff protection on some manufactures, which imposes great costs on primary producers. The Prime Minister's policy and the Deputy Prime Minister's policy of rushing into the mining of our national resources has for primary producers very serious implications which have been completely ignored by the Minister and by the Government generally. It will put great pressure on costs in the primary industries and eventually it will lead to revaluation and will make the primary industries much less competitive in international markets. It is interesting to quote from an article in the  Age  by a  Mr Dennis  Hussey that by 1990 there will be about 25 per cent fewer farms in Australia. This will be one of the results of this attitude towards mining. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I support the amendment, which is a very reasonable one. It states: 
While not opposing the Bill, the House calls upon the Minister for Primary Industry to explain how quantitative limits will be imposed at factory level without State Government co-operation. 
I was interested in the frankness of the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Sainsbury)  when he conceded that this is a second-rate alternative. That is an understatement, of course. It is hardly an alternative at all, but at least the honourable member conceded that it is not what he would like it to be. I think that the request in our amendment that the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  should come in and explain precisely what he means by this Bill is reasonable. He never does, of course. We make what we hope is an intelligent contribution to debate on Bills such as this and we ask pertinent questions, but the Minister consistently fails to come in and give sensible replies to our queries. I hope that on this occasion he does come into the House to try to explain what he means, because the scheme is incomprehensible in the way that it is written in the Bill. 
The honourable member for Eden-Monaro said that he could not understand why the Opposition could not see the merits of the scheme, which he himself described as being a secondrate alternative. It is not only the Opposition which cannot see the merits of the scheme. Some very important bodies also cannot see its merit, and they include the State Government of Victoria. An article in the  Age  on 3 1 May stated: 
The State Government has decided not to join the Federal Government's new dairy underwriting scheme. 
Instead, it will set up its own assistance scheme to ensure Victorian dairy farmers receive a level of $ 1 .76 per kg butterfat on prescribed dairy products already underwritten by the Federal Government . . . 
Outlining the scheme to the annual conference of the United Dairyfarmers of Victoria yesterday, the State Agriculture Minister . . . said his Government would direct funds to farmers through the Victorian Dairy Industry Authority to make up the difference in price. 
Alternatively, if the States did not take up the offer, the Commonwealth would meet the full cost of underwriting butter, skim milk powder, casein, cheese and wholemilk powder at the equivalent of $ 1 .65 per kg at the farm gate. 
That is the opinion of the State Government of Victoria. Certainly it cannot see the merits of the scheme. Turning to some of the producer bodies, an interesting statement was made by the  Chairman  of the Victorian Dairy Industry Authority,  Mr Des  Cooper in response to a statement by the Federal Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon).  A newspaper article reported  Mr Cooper  as saying that the Federal Minister's warning to Victoria not to raise milk prices was mischievous and nonsensical. The article stated: 
Victorian Dairy Industry Authority  chairman Mr Des  Cooper said the statement by the Federal Minister for Transport,  Mr Nixon,  was irresponsible and unforgivable. 
On Wednesday,  Mr Nixon  warned the Victorian Government not to increase milk prices to fund its own dairy marketing scheme, after its decision not to join the federal dairy underwriting plan. 

 Mr Cooper said the VDIA was the pricing authority for milk in Victoria and at present he did not envisage any price rise for milk. 
In view of those statements, I think the Minister for Primary Industry has a responsibility to say when there is that degree of opposition from a State government and from the milk marketing authority in Victoria how this scheme will work. He owes an explanation to the House. The other Bills are consequential, of course; they affect the marketing of manufactured dairy products. Liquid milk marketing or market milk marketing are not affected by the Bills although some State marketing arrangements integrate the products. 
We know that for many years the dairy industry has been plagued by excess production which sold at ruinously low prices. We know that not many years ago the government of the day was encouraging extra production in Victoria but now the chickens have come home to roost, as they say, or we are locking the dairy door after the bull has escaped and we are trying to put the problems right. The industry is in a terrible mess. A propensity to produce too much of the least saleable products, butter fat and its by-products, instead of the more saleable products, cheese and whole milk powder, from the raw milk is the underlying cause of this problem. The Industries Assistance Commission recommended a quota scheme under which producers would receive higher prices for limited quantities and lower prices for quantities above quota production. This legislation is aimed in many ways at socialising the dairy industry. It is doing it through the side door but of course it is being strongly opposed by a State government. 
The national aggregate entitlement scheme under which the quota is based has not been accepted by the Victorian Government. It sees this as trying to control its industry through the back door and take it out of its hands. It certainly does not approve the underwriting methods as proposed by this Government. Of course State co-operation is essential because the Government cannot legally apply quotas without it. The basic objective is fair enough, that is, to provide incentives and disincentives to produce or not to produce end products which can or cannot be sold at reasonable prices. 
The Federal Government is using a financial lever to get this co-operation but, if the States do not agree, the underwritten price will fall to 75c a lb, which would have to be found by the Commonwealth. There would also be no quantitative restrictions. As the Victorian Government has already rejected the proposal, the objective is virtually unobtainable. This is a pity in a way because the scheme has some favourable aspects. But it points up the grave conflicts between the National Country Party and the Liberal Party of Australia in this Parliament and the conflicts between the Federal Parliament and State parliaments. As I said, the Bills have some commendable aspects. For example, they are directed at reducing the production of less profitable products, such as butter, while encouraging increased production of more saleable commodities. Of course there is a drastic difference between the aspirations of the Bill and the reality. 
As the honourable member for Blaxland has already stated, the legislation simply will not work and the Minister should answer this criticism. The States, especially the major milk producing State of Victoria, have already indicated that they just will not be in it. In the longer term of course the Bills completely fail to address themselves to the major structural problems confronting the dairy industry. The Bills are directed to the factories, not to the producers. They are non-selective in that they do not discriminate between the various factors affecting specific dairying areas. They fail to differentiate between the areas requiring assistance and those that are presently viable, and between those areas which are climatically suitable for dairying and those which are not. No provision has been made for those producers in areas which cannot afford the transition from the production of one commodity to that of a more profitable one. These areas will be forced out into the cold. As usual, this is another ad hoc band-aid sort of measure that does not address itself to the long term problems. Despite some of the admirable features of the Bills, we just do not see how it will work without State government co-operation. We expect the Minister to indicate to us how it will work in these circumstances. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 24 May 1 978: 
1 ) Does the Government intend to extend the payment of Defence Force Retirement Benefit contributions from 20 to 25 years 'service. 
If so, does this constitute a breach of the conditions of service on entry into the Armed Forces. 
Will lump sum payments on retirement be subject to higher tax and include long service and DFRB contributions. 
I support these two Bills but wish to speak particularly to the Bounty (Agricultural Tractors) Amendment Bill 1978. I recall that when we discussed the tractor bounty last year the former honourable member for Wakefield, who was more commonly known as the 'modest farmer', expressed very strong support and put forward very strong arguments for the principle of bounty support rather than other forms of subsidy. I am always pleased to support those views and, like him, I think it is a philosophy that we do not make enough use of in our rural industries. I would like to see it extended further. It is an open system. We can see what is going on. It is subject to parliamentary review every year and the subsidy goes where it is intended, that is, to the manufacturer. It is not passed on to the user of the implement and, subsequently, to the consumer. Quite often the user- the primary producer- is not in a position to pass on his costs to the domestic consumer or to the export market. So this is a counter, in a way, to the undesirable effects of devaluation on primary industry. It is something which I support very strongly. 
Another aspect of the system which I think is most desirable is that it is a flexible system which can be amended from year to year as conditions within the industry change. Of course, this is precisely what has happened in this case. The Government is not locked into a form of subsidy that becomes irrelevant to the conditions or the environment prevailing in the industry. I think it also speaks well for the Industries Assistance Commission's report on the tractor industry, which is a well balanced report, that the Government has seen fit to adopt the recommendations of the report. I noted the remarks of my colleague the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  about the lack of long term planning in these areas. I think we can see in the IAC a vehicle for long term planning. There is certainly an element of long term planning even in looking at a particular aspect of rural industry, such as the market for large tractors. Of course, I would like to see the role of the IAC expanded to embrace a much wider look at these problems and I would like to see a much closer working relationship developed with the Treasury and the Department of Finance. There is an element of long term planning in the IAC's reports. I would like to see much more notice taken of them and the Government being more prepared to adopt the IAC's recommendations much quicker. 
The need for this amendment has come about because there have been changes in the industry, notably in the growth in the demand for large tractors. The figures show that it has increased from 6.5 per cent to 14 per cent in the past few years, which is quite a substantial increase. This change shows the flexibility of the system in that we are able to amend the Bill to embrace this change. It is a very important change, particularly in relation to what is called timeliness in agricultural operations. When I refer to 'timeliness' the people on the land will know that I am talking about the very important time factor of when one ploughs, when one seeds and when one harvests one's crops. We know that there is a very precise time in the agricultural calendar when conditions are ideal to plough large areas of land. The trouble is, of course, that after three or four days one may find that these ideal conditions have passed. The land may start to dry out because of drying winds or there may be too much rain. As we move to a more sophisticated type of agriculture there is much greater scope for large tractors to be able to get in and do the job at the precise time that conditions are most favourable. This is extremely important, of course, in relation to harvesting. One could have a crop one day and it could be completely destroyed by a hail storm the next day. Sowing seed at the right time and ploughing and cultivating at precisely the right time can mean a difference of hundreds of thousands of dollars in regard to the income from a wheat crop, an oilseeds crop or any other large acreage crop. Of course, a large tractor enables the operator to be precisely spot on. 
I think we should be suporting local production in principle. Although we import many of the tractors we use there are quite a few features of those tractors which are not suitable for local conditions. Locally made tractors tend to be tailor-made to suit our conditions in a much better way. They are often much more rugged than imported tractors and last longer. It is often easier to service and to buy spare parts for locally produced tractors. Other elements that are often overlooked in imported tractors are safety precautions and the comfort of a tractor. We tend to make enclosed cabins and those sorts of things separately and to put them on the tractor later. I think we should be encouraging local production to build these amenities into the tractors in the first place but, overall, to produce a tractor that is able to operate in our particularly difficult climatic conditions and over wide areas and rough terrain at a reasonable degree of comfort for the operator and that can do the job in as short a time as possible. 
I think our tractor production tends to be more labour intensive than the production in other countries because of the scale of operation. I think that justifies this form of subsidy by way of a bounty. There is a very good future for the production of large tractors in Australia and a modest investment in that area at this stage undoubtedly will pay off in the future. I do not think that the market is confined to Australia. I think opportunities exist for expanding our export market. It is only small at the moment, but it is surprising how often one runs into Australian machinery and Australian technology in underdeveloped countries in Africa and the Middle East. I was told by one of my colleagues recently that a big agricultural production scheme in Libya is backed up almost entirely by Australian technology and Australian machinery. 
There is great scope for this industry. I think that it is something that our trade commissioners are well aware of and that they are attempting to develop those markets. Unfortunately, there is a propensity for people in all countries to keep clear of wild buffaloes. I think the sort of wild buffalo diplomacy in which the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and, in some cases, the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  have indulged overseas has tended to undermine the good work of our trade commissioners in trying to sell Australian products overseas. It tends to produce an anti-Australian sentiment in those countries, which is most unfortunate. I hope that we will not have further examples of that because it makes the job of our trade commissioners much more difficult. One of the big problems of our trade commissioners is that sometimes they think they are selling Australian machinery and the recipient country thinks they are buying Australian machinery but if it happens to be made by a multi-national organisation the orders are sometimes redirected to another country which that organisation thinks can supply the machinery more cheaply. This is most unfortunate because quite often the purchasing country is buying in response to aid given by this country and price is not the only basis on which it makes a decision. For particular reasons it wants to buy an Australian product, and it is most unfortunate that it is not always able to do so because of the operations of the multi-nationals. 
We have some reservations about this subsidy and about the fact that it is possible that, by helping a couple of multi-nationals to manufacture large tractors in Australia, over time we may be forcing some small manufacturers out of the trade altogether. Here again, I think the bounty is flexible enough for the Parliament to be able to watch for this and to remedy the situation if it develops. We know the problem of the multinationals repatriating their profits and the lack of control over them in many ways. But, if by subsidising through bounties we can create jobs in Australia and manufacture more large tractors, I believe that that risk is well worth taking as long as we keep the matter under review and are prepared to make adjustments from time to time as the need arises. 
Generally, the Opposition commends the legislation. It confirms that a bounty is a type of subsidy which can be amended. It is flexible and can be tailored to fit particular situations. We think it should be used much more frequently. I personally feel that there is a very good future in Australia, both for domestic use and for export, for the larger types of tractors. Our machinery is much more adaptable to the needs of the developing countries and the Middle East countries than is machinery from many other areas because we are accustomed to dry farming, which is the situation in many of those countries. We should explore this to the full in a positive and aggressive way. Although it may cost the public something in the short term, in the long term it will pay off. The cost of the bounty does not fall on a particular sector of the community. The money comes from government and the population at large contributes to it. The producer or the user does not have to pay the cost of the subsidy. For that reason we support the principle very strongly and we support the Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice, on 17 August 1978: 
1 ) Have tenders been called for the replacement of the switchboard at the Canberra Theatre. 
If so, (a) how many tenderers submitted quotes, (b) who was the successful tenderer and (c) was the lowest tender accepted. 
I ask the Minister for Defence whether he is aware that the agreement between the Department of Defence and the University of New South Wales has broken down over the matter of academic appointments to the Faculty of Military Studies at the Royal Military College, Duntroon. Is it true that many appointments, including at least two Chairs, cannot be filled because of a breakdown in the original agreement, and that courses for 1979 may be disbanded because of the hiatus between the Department of Defence and the University of New South Wales? In view of this situation, can the Minister assure the Parliament that the Army can fulfil its future obligations in the training of commissioned officers? 
I think that the unusual feature of the Budget debate this year is the fact that we do not have to depend on the Opposition to highlight the many shortcomings and the moral bankruptcy of the Fraser Government's Budget. It is interesting to see the many Government back benchers who have not been backward in criticising the harsher aspects of the Budget and its many basic injustices. It is particularly interesting to hear the honourable member who is seen by some as a future Prime Minister, the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman),  voicing his criticism of several aspects of his present leader's Budget. He complained rather bitterly about the Government's decision to tax post-graduate research awards which would put the recipients into situations of hardship; and I must say that many of my constituents have been placed in this situation by this very unjust decision. 
He also complained about the Government's decision to index pensions annually and he complained that this was one of the many broken pledges of the Government. He made the rather interesting suggestion that perhaps we should have two-yearly budgets and he took the precaution of saying that there should be a proviso that there should be no reimposition of tax remissions during that period. This is very interesting in view of the history of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  on the question of personal taxation, as such a proposal would certainly inhibit the Prime Minister's tendency to renege on policy commitments every few months. Then yesterday evening we heard the honourable member for Deakin  (Mr Jarman)  criticise the iniquitous retrospective taxation of long service leave and holiday leave credits. Today the Australian Industries Development Association offered some very caustic criticism of the Budget strategy in its September bulletin. 
Despite all these shortcomings of the Budget being pointed out from the back bench and from traditional supporters of the Government, the Prime Minister still claims that the people of Australia support his Budget and that the divisive elements within the Australian community are less apparent now than they were two years ago. He said this, of course, in the face of the recent public opinion poll in the  Bulletin  which shows a 56 per cent disapproval rate of the Prime Minister and a mere 31 per cent approval. So who is kidding who in these opinions? To whom is the Prime Minister talking to get an opinion about how the public sees his Budget? 
This is also, of course, in the face of the overt public demonstrations in Australia's major cities against the Budget, most of which, I must say, were quite spontaneous. They were not promoted by the Australian Labor Party and Government members should realise that the Budget itself has provoked people to demonstrate. The Budget has committed violence on the pay packets of lower and middle income earners in Australia and this has provoked people to demonstrate. I can assure honourable members that they do not need the ALP to provoke them to demonstrate. 
The public outcry has not been without some effect. The Government has gone cold on major aspects of arrangements for the administration of the new health insurance scheme. It now wants Medibank Private to handle people without private insurance who want to claim the universal benefit. This stems from the prospect of having to retrench several thousand Medibank employees, quite a few of whom live in my electorate, a move which would cause great hardship in the Public Service but which would be consistent with the Government's vicious and unsympathetic attitude towards the Public Service generally, an attitude which no doubt inspired the  Chairman  of the Public Service Board to retire recently at very short notice. It also points up the Government's rubbery financial estimates regarding the new health insurance arrangements. Management by private funds, some experts predict, would cost at least $20m more than if it were handled by Medibank Private. We can only hope that the Government will also rethink its decision to allow doctors to play God in determining who in our community is socially disadvantaged. What a degrading and demeaning procedure to impose on senior citizens and other disadvantaged people who are in need of medical services! 
The Government has also gone cold on its proposal to tax family allowances according to children's earnings. Whilst the intention of this proposal is commendable the effect of it on ordinary families where a child shows some initiative by earning income from such activities as selling newspapers is not at all commendable. It robs people of that very quality of resourcefulness which the Fraser Government is always protesting that it wishes to inculcate. 
The ill thought out implications of this proposal is, I believe, symptomatic of the Government's entire approach, an approach which has been characterised by rash judgments and deliberate moves to penalise low and middle income earners in favour of the wealthy. It is apparent now that a worker on, say, $175 a week will shortly have to pay a tax increase of 7.3 per cent whilst a worker on $300 will be taxed an extra 5.6 per cent and, of course, the privileged few will face an increase of only 3.2 per cent. So there is no question of what the Government's intention is. Workers are now penalised too if they drink, smoke, drive a car or take their families on an interstate holiday. They are penalised if they are single parents, migrants or Aboriginals. They are penalised if they want to build a house. If they are building or construction industry workers they face the problem of joining a long dole queue. If they hope to become public servants they join a very long waiting list. If they are teachers wishing to rejoin the profession they face a wait of up to four years. Of course, if they are female and run a home as well as work full time they are doubly disadvantaged. Child care facilities are often expensive and inadequate through no fault of the people who run them. It appears that the Government would rather bribe women not to work than live up to its responsibility for providing child care. Women are blamed for unemployment figures being so high, along with arguments that wages across the board are too high. 
The facts are, of course, that the economy is sick and that the Government is neurotically clinging to the idea that by reducing the rate of inflation all problems will be solved. The Government should try to tell this to some small businessmen. Only big business has gained from this Budget, a Budget which is based largely on the assumption that overseas investment is another panacea for all our ills. Of course, it is important that overseas interests find Australia to be an attractive investment prospect, but surely it is equally important that small businesses are allowed to survive. The plight of many small businesses in the Australian Capital Territory is graphically evident. Planners are being blamed for the over-supply of retail and business space in Canberra when, of course, government decisions should be blamed. The problem is much more complex than that. Canberra has suffered a dramatic and deliberate slowing down of the growth rate, as has the entire country. The economic downturn together with the persistent refusal by the Government to inject funds into the public sector has contributed to this and surely the time has now come for some action. If the private sector is unable to recover sufficiently to provide jobs for the thousands of unemployed Australians, it is clearly up to the Government to provide a stimulus in the private sector by an injection of public funds into such productive areas as housing, highway construction, the upgrading of public transport, sewerage schemes and so on. 
When the Opposition talks about public sector spending it does not mean, as the Prime Minister invariably claims, that we are proposing a massive increase in the Public Service. We mean to increase government spending in productive areas under government control which, in turn, would create jobs in the private sector. This would get the economy going again by stimulating employment generating projects, not by putting more people on the public payroll. 
In Canberra we constantly experience meddling in affairs which should rightly be the province of an elected government. We have an elected body, the Legislative Assembly, in the Australian Capital Territory which has no power. Although the Government has given many undertakings in the past to give that body some power, it has now repudiated the commitment. The Government will submit the people to a rather phoney type of referendum. That referendum is to be held on the same day as the Legislative Assembly election although the powers of the Assembly have not been designated. The people of the Australian Capital Territory are being asked to elect representatives to that body whose powers are not clear. In addition, candidates are being asked to stand for election to a Legislative Assembly which has no powers. Its powers will be dependent on the results of a referendum which will not be known at the time the election is being held. In Canberra the Commonwealth Government has interfered with increases in rents for government houses and flats. It has increased parking charges, motor registration fees and bus fares, and it has meddled in a whole range of matters which would normally be the province of a government elected by its citizens. The Government interferes in these matters but it refuses to intervene where it should intervene, that is, to stimulate growth in order to reduce the dole queue. Of course, we still have almost 6,000 people unemployed in the national capital. 
In yesterday's edition of the  Australian Financial Review  I noticed a report that Government officials already are becoming sceptical about the optimistic forecasts for exports which are to be found in Statement No. 2 of the Budget documents. Contrary to forecasts by the Treasury of a strong recovery in the farm product, the Bureau of Agricultural Economics expects less than a one per cent growth in rural export earnings this financial year. At the same time, imports are continuing to increase strongly, rising by 4 per cent after adjustment in the three months to August. Consequently, Australia had a record balance of payments current account deficit in August. So much for the Government's expectation. 
The Government does not even expect an improvement in the unemployment position which can only mean that unemployment will continue to rise at record rates. I can only re- iterate the headline that appeared in the  Australian Financial Review  the morning after the presentation of the Budget which stated 'Head for Hell with Good Intentions'. Perhaps even that headline was too kind. I cannot find too much evidence of the Government's good intentions and we may well ask this question: Is it good intentions which prompted the Government's decision to tax social welfare beneficiaries such as accident victims who are being rehabilitated? Is it good intentions which prompted the Government to increase the tax of tuberculosis victims? What about the good intentions that prompted the Government's decision to freeze unemployment benefits for unemployed single people, to index old age pensions annually or to subject those people over 70 years to a means test? Are these good intentions? 
The Government has exhibited its good intentions only to those people who are already well off. The Government has given windfall profits to the oil companies. Esso-BHP, for example, will gain an additional $150m approximately in 1978-79 by way of import parity arrangements at the expense of government revenue. Whilst I am on the subject of Esso-BHP, I think it is appropriate to tell the House that today I received a number of reports claiming that there are grave deficiencies in the quality of Esso-BHP petrol originating from Bass Strait which we are subsidising so heavily. My understanding is that motor vehicles using this fuel in Canberra today are malfunctioning and stopping in the streets without any apparent explanation except that the carburettors are clogged up with what appears to be poor quality fuel. I hope that the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  will take prompt action to investigate these very serious charges, especially when we are considering a Budget which is so kind to the Esso-BHP Consortium. 
The Government's failure to introduce a resource tax on windfall company profits is not offset by the Budget's increased production levy. The increased levy is paid by the consumer. It is paid initially by the refinery but it is then passed on to the motorist, the industry, et cetera, whereas a resources tax would have been paid by the producer. Likewise, but on the home front, the Government has seen fit to increase spending on private schools and to cut spending on government schools. Funds for universities have been cut. The Government is threatening to interfere with the well established world-wide practice of providing study leave for academics. 
Taken as a whole, this Budget lacks any indication that the Government has a firm plan in mind, either in the medium or long term, to set Australia on the path of economic recovery and social stability and well-being. It demonstrates the Government's obsession with inflation. It seeks to link, by implication, Australia's economic recovery with increased overseas investment which it sees as being the direct result of a reduced inflation rate. There is no evidence for this. The Government continues to blame unemployment on wage levels. Yet evidence exists to show that unemployment has become a structural problem, not only in our society, but in all the capitalist economies of the western world. The problems of redundancy caused by technological advances are part of this picture. The Government will have to come to grips with this issue. This Government has shown in this and previous Budgets that it is incapable of such investigation. Indeed, it has reverted to policies aimed at shifting the balance of wealth back towards profits and away from the people. Its obsession with reducing the public sector has more to do with fears of socialism than with economic good sense. This is a reactionary and harsh Budget hastily thrown together without thought for the very urgent problems which are facing Australia today. 
I wish to oppose the Australian Capital Territory Electricity Supply Amendment Bill. I do so on a number of principles which have already been spelt out by my colleague the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes).  I would like to endorse the objection of my party to this Bill in principle on those grounds. Firstly, we object to the way in which the Bill has been used to create yet another fiddle in the Budget by reducing the Budget deficit. This has become a very common tactic of the present Government to take items which traditionally have been in the Budget out of it so that the deficit will be that much less for this year. The introduction of this Bill is just another example of that action. It has been said that the rates of borrowing will not increase the charges. This may be so but I do not think it can be denied that the act of taking this item out of the Budget means that there will be another borrower on the market and this must add to the pressure on the market for funds and increase interest rates rather than lower interest rates. So it is not true to say that it will not affect the cost of borrowing. The possibilities are that it will increase the cost of borrowing. Of course this will have to be reflected in the tariffs charged by the Electricity Authority. 
The other matter of principle on which I oppose the Bill is that it is another very clear demonstration of the way in which the Government manipulates and uses the various authorities in the Australian Capital Territory for its own purposes, without regard to or without consulting the people of the ACT. Of course it must involve the question of self government. My colleague was right in using this matter to demonstrate the very bad deal that people in Canberra get by not being consulted and by not having proper, representation. I think most people are aware that this is the only community in Australia that does not have a degree of self government. It is about to become the only community in Australia that will be given the opportunity to reject the idea of self government by a referendum. This has never happened before, to my knowledge, in the history of Australia. Certainly it is most inconsistent of the Government to try to evade the issue in Canberra by putting it to a referendum when it did not insist on a referendum being held for residents of the Northern Territory which now has a large measure of self government. In that case a referendum most probably would have rejected the idea. 
I think our history of rejection of referendums shows the tactics which the Government is employing in this situation. There is no doubt that it gave very firm undertakings on many occasions that it would give self government to the people of Canberra. There was no indication that the matter would be put to a referendum. It is like giving the people a referendum on whether they should be taxed. I think people will tend to vote against self-government simply because they do not know what is meant by the term. The Government at this stage has done nothing to tell people what it means by self government. 
Getting back to the Bill, I do not think there is any question that there is need for money to expand the Electricity Authority. The Authority has had a history of very rapid growth. It is interesting to look back to the time when the Authority was set up in 1962. It is interesting to read the remarks of the former honourable member for Macquarie,  Mr Luchetti,  who was a very highly esteemed member of this House for many years. He made the point that the Government has passed over an excellent opportunity to bring self government to the ACT by permitting directly people to participate in the management of an important undertaking. Instead the Government established an authority that was not directly responsible to the people but to the Government and to the Minister. It is interesting to note that 16 years after those remarks were made by  Mr Luchetti  the position is exactly the same. While the ACT Electricity Authority has an elected representative on it- a very capable representative in  Mr Peter  Vallee who is an elected Australian Labor Party member of the Legislative Assembly and who represents the elected representatives on the Authority- he still has no power. The Authority is not directly responsible to the elected Legislative Assembly; it is responsible to a Minister who, of course, is not elected in the ACT. 
If we look at the speech that was made when the Authority was introduced, we find that it had 19,321 consumers. It made some pretty accurate forecasts in that it expected that there would be 100,000 people in Canberra by about 1969 and 30,000 consumers. That forecast was almost spot on. Of course now there are about 210,000 people living in the ACT and 74,605 electricity consumers. So the Authority has had a very remarkable growth rate. It is understandable that it must still have access to funds in order to continue its expansionary program. I have had quite a lot to do with the Authority and I am a great admirer of the way in which it has carried out its task. I think it is a very highly efficient organisation. It has been a very sympathetic organisation with regard to my constituency matters. I know that on occasions it has to threaten to cut off the electricity supply to people, but whenever I have offered to pay a bond to have the electricity put back on an employee of the Authority has always rushed out to reconnect it immediately. It is very responsive in those situations in which sometimes unfortunate people find themselves 
The Authority has also been quite successful as a land developer. Electricity House is one of our finest buildings in the Civic Centre. It has the privilege of being the home of the permanent head of the Department of the Capital Territory. Of course the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Ellicott)  has a suite in that office for his use while he is in Canberra. The Authority has done very well in that respect. If I have a criticism of it- this comes from my experience- it is that it has not always paid sufficient attention to environmental aspects in its expansion throughout the ACT. It tends to cut huge swathes through the hinterland when somebody does not stop it, in order to leave a very clear area around its power supply lines. Recently there was some industrial trouble. A green ban was put on a project on the foothills of Mount Majura until the Authority gave more firm undertakings that the environmental quality would be protected. Those problems were then overcome. On many occasions it tends to cut down a tree because that is the easiest way to achieve its objective rather than to prune the tree. It has been open to some criticism in the past on those grounds. 
My main criticism of the whole set-up of the Authority is that it is very parochial in terms of the particular form of energy that it is selling. This is understandable. I think that in this day and age we should be moving towards a more rationalised and planned use of all our energy resources and we should not be handling just one particular form of energy in isolation. I must pay a compliment to one of the most progressive Ministers we have ever had in the Australian Capital Territory, my colleague the honourable member for Wills,  Mr Gordon  Bryant. When he was the Minister he put up a plan to establish an ACT energy authority. The idea of that authority was that it would rationalise and co-ordinate the uses of all forms of energy in the ACT. Contrary to my colleague the honourable member for Canberra  (Mr Haslem)  who said that he wanted to bring us into line with what happens in the States, I think that was a wonderful opportunity for us to demonstrate to the States the advantages of rational planning in the use of energy instead of the present situation where various sources of energy are competing with each other for the market and all of them are trying to exhort people to use more energy, whether it be electricity, gas, petroleum or heating oil. 
I think this is a very unfortunate approach to the whole problem of energy. We all know that it is a diminishing resource and I think there is much room for rationalising and co-ordinating its use. Another example of this parochial attitude was the time when the natural gas pipeline grid was passing very close to Canberra- it went to Gunning which is just a few miles out- and we were endeavouring to have an extension of the line into Canberra. I understand that one of the reasons why it did not come into Canberra was opposition from the ACT Electricity Authority. This is understandable from the authority's point of view but I do not think it is a valid reason from the point of view of the overall use of energy. 
We had another example today of the sorts of problems that can arise with energy use. We had reports that petrol from a particular source was causing a lot of trouble to cars in Canberra. The National Roads and Motorists Association has had a rash of complaints from people whose cars just stopped for no apparent reason. It has been found that the carburettor was clogged up and the needle valves were blocked up. Obviously there is something wrong with the fuel. All I can say at this time is that the fuel appears to come from the Esso-BHP Bass Strait oil wells. I do not want to point the finger at any distributor because this matter might not have anything to do with the retailers. It might arise from a problem at the source. We all know that oil from different wells varies tremendously in quality and that it needs to be refined. Often additives are put into the fuel, particularly during wintertime. It could be that some additive may not have been as compatible as it was thought it would be. This is quite a problem in Canberra at the moment. Because we do not have control of our own affairs, we do not seem to be able to do much about it. 
The NRMA, for instance, claims that it is reluctant to test the petrol because of legal implications even though in the past two weeks it has received 200 service calls related to blockages in cars believed to be caused by poor quality fuel. The NRMA has also received complaints from some local motor dealers who have had customers returning to complain about poor servicing when the fault in fact may have been in the petrol. The problem may be due to dirty carriers. We do not know what it is. However, this has been going on for a couple of weeks and apparently nothing has been done about it. If we had an Australian Capital Territory energy authority I am sure that sort of problem could be dealt with much more expeditiously. The consumer would know where he was and certainly the distributor would know where he was. At the moment the situation is very unsatisfactory. I ask the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  to look at this matter and investigate it urgently. 
We have heard much talk about solar energy. A unique research project in solar energy is being conducted at the Australian National University. A completely original concept of transporting and storing solar energy has been developed. I understand that the whole project is about to fold up in a few months because of a lack of funds from the Government. Here is an inexcusable situation. This is a very important new area of research. A lot of work has been done and a working model has been established. However, the project is threatened. It may have to be closed down because of a lack of a few hundred thousand dollars. All of these sorts of things could be better dealt with if we had not an Australian Capital Territory Electricity Authority but an Australian Capital Territory energy authority to rationalise and co-ordinate all of the energy uses in the Australian Capital Territory. 
I want to leave the Minister for Home Affairs and Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Ellicott)  enough time in which to respond. The Opposition acknowledges the need for funds to be allocated to the ACTEA. I think that this body has done an excellent job in the past and I am sure that it will do an excellent job in the future. The Opposition opposes this Bill on the principle that the authority is being used. The amendment is merely a little bit of juggling to reduce the Budget deficit. This measure demonstrates quite clearly the lack of a voice that the Canberra people have in the running of the Australian Capital Territory's domestic services. They should have a very loud say in that matter. I hope that the Minister will clarify this matter. I hope that he will say what he intends to offer the people in respect of self-government. But I am afraid that it is just an exercise to get the Government off the hook and to allow it not to fulfil its obligations to the people of Canberra in relation to self-government and to put this matter back on the shelf for another six or 10 years. 
-On behalf of the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory, I present the Committee's report on proposals for variation of the plan of layout of the city of Canberra and its environs, 66th Series. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I ask leave of the House to make a short statement in connection with the report. 
I rise to support the amendment moved by my colleague the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating).  The amendment would have the effect of increasing the rate of stabilisation to $3 a box instead of $2.20 a box. I was interested in the remarks of the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  who always makes an interesting speech. The honourable member spoke about all sorts of things other than apples and pears. He spoke about the Coombs report which has a very indirect bearing on apples and pears. He talked about the tree pull scheme which has nothing to do with the present Bill. He concluded by giving a very good argument why the adjustment should be increased. In fact he argued in support of our amendment. It is a pity he does not carry his argument through to its logical conclusion and vote for our amendment. 
It is good to see that some of the Tasmanian members are in the chamber to listen to debate on the amendment and, I hope, to support it. The honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck)  is in the chamber. The honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  was in the chamber but he has now left it. The honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Burr)  is in the chamber as, of course, is the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett).  The notable absentee from the line up of Government supporters concerned with this legislation is the honourable member for Calare  (Mr MacKenzie)  who represents the biggest apple growing district in Australia. However, he is never in the chamber when we are discussing apples and pears, he never speaks on apple and pear legislation and he never asks questions about the apple and pear industry. I do not know where the honourable member for Calare is; perhaps he is up in - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Order! There is no substance in the point of order. The honourable member will resume his seat. 
I suggest that the honourable member for Calare may be up in Bathurst trying to help his colleague the State member for Bathurst hold his seat of Bathurst on 7 October because his seat is under great threat. 
I think that people have to realise the importance of the export market not only to the Tasmanian apple and pear industry but also to the apple and pear industry of the whole of Australia. If the apple and pear industry in Tasmania became unviable because of the export market the rest of the Australian apple and pear industry would be in a disastrous position because the Tasmanian production would then flood on to the domestic market in the eastern States. I think it is well known now that New South Wales grows more apples than Tasmania. The difference, of course, is that these apples are sold and eaten in that State. Also New South Wales exports only a very small proportion of its apples. Of course, Tasmania is terribly dependent on the export market. Therefore the Australian export market has to be kept viable for the sake of Tasmania and this is the reason the Opposition has moved its amendment. 
The honourable member for Murray made frequent reference to the Industries Assistance Commission's report. I suggest that this report was very valid at the time it was made. However I suggest that some of its recommendations are not valid now. Many of the recommendations are aimed at rationalising the industry and helping people to get out of the industry into other areas of occupation. That was a viable option at the time the report was made. However, it is not a viable option now bearing in mind the disastrous economic management of this country by the present Government. There is no option for apple growers to cut their losses, to get out of the industry and to get into some other form of occupation. There are too many people on the dole queues now without adding to that number by forcing people out of the apple and pear industry. We have to subsidise these people and keep export returns viable. I suggest we would be better able to do that if we increased the subsidy to $3 a case. 
I think the apple and pear industry has a tremendous ability to adjust itself, but this takes time. We all know there is a long time scale involved in changing production patterns in the apple and pear industry. Trees take some seven or eight years before they come into bearing and changes cannot be made overnight. Government has an obligation to keep the people in the industry going while changes take place. I had discussions today with leaders of the industry in New South Wales and I was told that very significant changes are taking place. Changes are being carried out to make the varieties of apples more acceptable in the traditional markets and possible future markets. There is quite a substantial opportunity to expand our markets in such areas as the Middle East, Singapore and Hong Kong if we grow the sorts of apples they want and do not palm something on them by dumping our surplus which may not be acceptable. These changes take time. I understand that one cannot get suitable apple stock for hedgerow culture from nurseries until 1981. This indicates a very substantial move to hedgerow production which has been a feature of apple horticulture in the United Kingdom and Europe for many years. When I was behind the Iron Curtain in Bulgaria I saw acres of apples planted in hedgerows. This country which is supposed to be backward is using the most up-to-date and progressive technology in apple growing. This is more than we are doing. There is a move towards hedgerow production in Australia, particularly in the Orange district, but this is still a very small proportion of our total production. Of course, Tasmania is further behind still in hedgrow production. There is a very slow movement in the industry in that respect. 
There are other opportunities for expansion of the industry, one of which is in the manufacture of by-products. There are growth prospects in respect of apple juice. I understand that a factory is to be established in Orange this year to manufacture apple juice for sale under the Mountain Maid Foods Co-operative Ltd brand. I know there is a growing demand for apple in baby food production and that the Edgell-Gerber baby food group in Bathurst is using an increasing quantity of apples. There is room for expansion but that expansion should be carried out on the basis of the industry being able to compete with other products and in overseas markets. This is what the growers are trying to do. 
The whole idea of hedgerow technology, of course, is to obtain lower costs of production by allowing production to be more mechanised. Hedgerow technology lessens the cost of harvesting the fruit. It also allows pruning to be mechanised and reduces the cost of spraying. Although this technology is very good for the industry it is not good for employment prospects. However, this is just another example of the way by which technology is replacing manpower in various areas of production. 
The cost of production has to be kept down. I understand that that cost is around $5 a case. However, the indications are that in Orange, which as I say is the biggest apple growing district in Australia, whilst acreages are not increasing production will increase because of changing technology. We have to make room for that increased production and, of course, the market will grow if apples can be produced at a competitive price. All of this will be to no avail if the export market collapses and if the Tasmanian industry is allowed to go into the doldrums and people are forced out of the industry. The industry in Tasmania has to be kept viable in order to keep the rest of the Australian industry viable. I suggest that the best way of doing that is to increase the rate of stabilisation which is necessary to allow for possible export losses. 
I understand that the prospects for next year are for a very big and heavy crop. Of course, it is early days yet. All we can see are the buds on the trees. However, the season has been good, the prospects for the blossom period are excellent and the indications at this stage are for a big crop next year. It is also apparent that there will not be a big carryover of stocks to next year. I understand that stocks held in cold store are down on last year and that the market is reasonably buoyant. So the prospects are that there will not be a large carryover of stocks and the market should be reasonably buoyant for the domestic production that will come on line next year. 
There are other changes in the industry. I understand that at Bilpin, which has been a fairly extensive apple growing area, the tendency is for acreages to reduce. Of course, many people in this area were Pitt Street farmers or people who were in the industry to reduce taxes. However, they found that because of the amount of labour involved this sort of farming was not pleasurable. Many of these people got out of the fruit industry because it was not all they thought it was going to be. This is being made up by increases in the acreages being grown in other areas such as Orange and Bathurst. There have been substantial changes in the sorts of varieties that people are growing. There has been a big swing to the delicious variety, particularly the red delicious and to varieties such as bonza. These changes have been made in response to market demand. I am confident that, if the industry adapts its production to the prospective markets, there is room for increasing sales overseas. The instability of our own economy, of course, is a problem. That is why it may be necessary for the Government to give added support. 
It is quite ironical that it is left to the Opposition to show real concern for the apple growers. It will be interesting to see how members from Tasmania who represent the apple growing areas will respond to our concern for the stability of the apple industry at large. We are concerned not only for the growers of Tasmania but also with the effect that the stability of the industry in Tasmania can have on the industry in other States. That is our concern. We are not concerned with one State; we are concerned with the industry at large. For the Government to label our amendment as a cynical exercise is quite unjustified. It is not a cynical exercise. It is an amendment that has been brought forward in good faith in the light of the present difficulties in the industry. 
We are concerned not only with the apple and pear industry but also with the disastrous employment situation where people do not have an opportunity of bailing out of the apple industry and going into other jobs. I do not know what the job market is like in Tasmania. I suggest that it is no better than it is anywhere else. I would like to know what honourable members from Tasmania think people who are forced out of the apple industry should do. Do they suggest they go on to the dole queues. What will they do? Are there other fields of employment in Tasmania? I suggest that there are not. We have to keep people in the industry and help them through a difficult period. For these reasons, I support the amendment moved by my colleague. 
-I want to make a few brief comments about the potential for research in the wheat industry. I should like to make particular reference to the potential for what is generally known as genetic engineering- something about which we do not know a great deal in Australia at the moment but which is a very important part of the program of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation. It depends, to a great deal, on the sorts of resources that are made available to the industry. Before proceeding, I would like to remind honourable members that Canberra has a very important place in the wheat industry. Of course, it was the home of William Farrer who was regarded as the father of the wheat industry. Honourable members may be interested to know that Farrer 's property 'Lambrigg' still exists in its entirety and that Farrer is buried on that property. There is a memorial there, but unfortunately it is not generally available to the public. It is rather inconvenient to get to it. I am very critical of the Department of the Capital  Territory  because the memorial to the greatest benefactor of the wheat industry, one of our greatest industries, is not available to the general public. That is just a matter of interest I raise in passing. 
The wheat industry is, of course, a tremendously important industry to Australia and to our export earnings. It is particularly important because of the way it fits in with the wheat harvests in other areas of the world. Of course, the world price for wheat is determined more by the harvests in the northern hemisphere- Russia, United States of America, Canada and the other large producing countries- rather than by Australia. Most of these other big wheat growing nations have their harvests in the middle of the year- June, July and August- when our crop is just growing. We harvest our crop in the off season in relation to the rest of the world. Our crop does not determine the price on the world wheat market; rather the crops that mature in the northern hemisphere determine the price. One of the many avenues for research in the wheat industry is in the area of alternative crops. These provide not only an alternative form of income for wheat farmers but also tend to improve the yield of the wheat as a result of areas not being planted with wheat for a certain time. A range of alternative crops can be planted. There is a good deal of variation as to which is the most suitable alternative crop, depending on where wheat is grown. Alternative crops in areas such as the Darling Downs are quite unsuitable as alternative crops in the southern districts of Australia where there is a different rainfall altogether. 
A good deal of research is being done in the area of alternative large crops such as sunflower and many other new crops. Many crops have been tried with mixed results. It is quite clear that more research is needed to overcome some of the problems that growers have encountered. Research funds are limited and scientists face the problem of deciding how much effort they should put into the alternative crops. What complicates matters is that growers in different parts of the wheat belt have different motives for growing crops other than wheat. For instance, in southern Australia they may grow crops like lupins and peas to preserve soil fertility and to try to stop the build up of diseases such as cereal eelworm and hay-die. In the northern part of the wheat belt farmers who are prevented by dry conditions from sowing wheat early in the season may sow a crop like sorghum or sunflower to capitalise on the spring or summer rainfalls. This sort of flexibility is possible in places like Queensland's Darling Downs where rainfall is much more diversified than it is in these areas. However, on heavy soils it may be possible to get very good results from sunflowers and crops which are sown after the winter fallow. 
Probably the most exciting area of research, as I have said, is in the area of genetic engineering. This is a completely new concept of achieving, by genetic means, what is now achieved by the very expensive means of buying nitrogenous fertilisers to put on wheat crops. It is a very expensive field of research-one that has to be subject to a great deal of control because of the potential dangers of bacteria getting out of hand. I understand that the procedures that we follow are consistent with the precautions taken in other parts of the world to prevent this sort of thing. It has tremendous potential because in the long term it could mean that the quality of nitrogen-fixing which is now limited to nitrogenous crops such as clovers or peas could be bred into the wheat crops so that wheat, in time, could fix nitrogen by itself, by genetic factors being built into the breeding of the wheat 
It is a very long-term project, but it is one on which I think Australia should embark because of the potential for wheat production. I am not one of those who is concerned with overproduction. I think that in the long term there is no question that our wheat, whatever we grow, can be marketed profitably, provided we adopt modern methods of cultivating, harvesting and marketing wheat. This is one line of research which I am sure would pay tremendous dividends over a long period. We have to be prepared to make the commitment and to invest large sums of money in genetic engineering. If we get a breakthrough in this area the pay-off could mean hundreds of millions of dollars not only for the wheat industry but also for other cereal crops. Through this sort of research we could establish new methods of fixing nitrogen in the soil rather than having to resort to the very costly methods of applying artificial nitrogenous fertilisers which are becoming increasingly scarce and increasingly expensive. I support this Bill and hope that some of the money collected in this research fund will find its way into genetic engineering research through the CSIRO or any other body which may be engaged in that sort of research. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
I rise briefly to support the two Bills. I am rather puzzled by the reluctance of Government speakers to acknowledge that, in fact, this legislation represents to some extent a phasing out of assistance under the dried vine fruits stabilisation scheme. They have all acknowledged the figures but they seemed to be reluctant to acknowledge the significance of them. The facts show that the rate of subsidy will be reduced. The maximum Commonwealth contribution will be reduced from $25 to $23 a tonne. The overall ceiling of the Commonwealth contribution in any season will be $1.5m, which is a reduction. The volume to which the subsidy will apply has been reduced from 75,000 tonnes to 60,000 tonnes. Raisins and currants will not be covered by the new scheme. Obviously, these are all marginal cutbacks of the assistance scheme. I think the Government speakers should acknowledge this. 
The Government says that it is not adopting the Industries Assistance Commission report. I suppose this is a matter of degree. I think we should remember that the IAC report was produced in a different economic climate from that which exists today. If the IAC was called on today to report on the dried fruit industry it may come up with a completely different formula. When its report was produced it was not under instructions from the Government, as it is now, to take note of the social effects of its recommendations. Of course, the unemployment situation had not got completely out of hand through the bad economic management of the Government. The IAC was rather keen to talk about reconstructing the industry in those days. People perhaps had an opportunity of getting out of the industry and into some other form of employment, which opportunity is not available to them today. So the circumstances are completely changed. One cannot just keep referring to an IAC report put out three or four years ago in circumstances which were completely different from those which are in existence today. 
Another interesting feature to note about Government speakers is the difference in their attitudes towards the future of the industry. Certainly, the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr 
Fisher) was much more optimistic about the future for prices and production than was the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Giles).  I do not know who is right. They cannot both be right. I hope that the honourable member for Mallee is right. 
They could both be wrong. I did not think of that. Certainly, in relation to production forecasts the honourable member for Wakefield seemed to be at variance with the 'Outlook' report in suggesting that perhaps a lot of the wine grapes will finish up as dried grapes because of the integration within the wine industry. The big wine producers are tending to grow their own grapes and become independent of the independent growers. This puts the growers in a much less competitive position. This is happening in the electorate of the honourable member for Wakefield. He should know something about it.  His  predictions might be much more accurate than those in the official Bureau of Agricultural Economics 'Outlook'. This report states: 
Over the next few years, it is envisaged that the dried vine fruit pack will decline somewhat . . . The bearing area under multi-purpose grapes is fairly static and average yields are trending slightly downward reflecting a large proportion of old vines. 
This seems to be in conflict with some of the evidence that many new vines are being planted. The 'Outlook' report claims: 
Replacements have been low at less than two per cent per year and, although these have been with high yielding material, it should be some time until the proportion of high yielding vines is sufficiently large to reverse the downward trend in average yields. 
I do not know who is right. They might both be wrong. I think we all concede that the dried vine fruit industry is a very volatile one. It is very dependent on seasonal conditions, which can be very unstable, and it is very dependent on export prices, which can be also very unstable. Certainly, it is an industry that is in need of stabilisation. It is just a matter of how we go about this stabilisation and whether we achieve the objectives that we set out to achieve when we stabilise these industries. If we tend to reduce production and reduce our dependence on exports, returns should be slightly higher because the domestic market has tended to be better than the export market. We know that export opportunities have declined in the United Kingdom and have tended to be replaced by new opportunities opening up in countries such as Japan, although it seems that we have not made the most of these opportunities. I think that there is considerable room for improvement. There is a much greater potential for increasing our market in Japan if we adopted a more aggressive promotion policy. But in former years we tended to sit back and sell overseas on a protection basis, as we did in the United Kingdom. Now that is all gone. We are not being very successful with the sort of diplomacy we are using to try to sell our goods in the European Economic Community. So we have to depend on overseas markets. Certainly Japan is one of those markets. Canada is another where we enjoy reasonable opportunities. New Zealand is another. In trading with New Zealand we have a freight advantage and we can compete with other countries. 
Although the dried vine fruit industry is expected to contract in the long-term with a subsequent decline in the dependence on export markets, in the short-term we will still be dependent on a large proportion of our produce being sold for exports and, consequently, there will be great fluctuations in the returns to the producers. If the domestic prices are able to be maintained above the export prices at present rates, then average producer returns are expected to rise in proportion as the export crop fails. 
Whilst we are still staying with the two-pool marketing arrangements which the IAC recommended, I think we should be looking at other alternatives, and there are other alternatives. The honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Fitzpatrick)  mentioned one of them. Certainly, I do not think that hail insurance is any great panacea. A person does not get anything tie does not pay for with hail insurance. In fact, he gets a bit less because the insurance companies want their little bit of cream. He does not get anything for nothing from a private insurance company. He only gets something less than what he pays. Certainly it is a means of spreading the risk. 
I think that apart from the stabilisation scheme we could be putting much more emphasis on research to make our production more competitive in the export markets. Of course, there is a very wide range of research areas where we are active but could be more active, particularly in solving salinity problems, which were referred to by my colleague, the honourable member for Riverina. The development of root stocks which resist salinity in the water is another area where great potential exists. Extending the shelf life of the product, developing new varieties, protecting the crop against rain damage, looking at the effect of heat treatment and viruses, and the general problem of insect and pest control are all areas which would be good investments. If we were able to divert enough of our resources into those areas it would generally lead to lower production costs and would make us more competitive on overseas markets and less dependent on stabilisation schemes. Apart from that, I think we have to stay with the scheme in the short term. For those reasons I support the Bills. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
I rise to support the Dairying Industry Research and Promotion Levy Amendment Bill 1978. I understand that the purpose of the Bill is to close the loophole by which possible avoidance of the levy formerly existed. This involved producers retaining ownership of whole milk and butter fat until after the product had been processed by a cooperative factory. The obligation on the cooperative to pay the levy raised a legal doubt about who, if anyone, should pay the levy when this procedure was followed. The second Bill, the Dairying Industry Research and Promotion Levy Collection Bill, provides for the collection of the levy. The purpose of the levy is to finance research under the auspices of the Dairy Research Committee and to finance the administration and promotional activities of the Australian Dairy Corporation which handles manufactured products. The promotion of liquid sales is the responsibility of State dairy authorities. 
Let me refer to the outlook of the industry. Like all other rural industries it is faced with escalating costs, a contracting domestic market and low export returns. This is the normal picture for practically all rural industry and certainly the fruit and dairy industries. The underwriting of butter, cheese, casein and skim milk powder should give increased average unit returns to producers but this is expected to be offset by increasing costs. Therefore, it is expected that the net returns to producers will continue to decline. Last week's issue of  The Land  reported that only 2,500 to 2,800 dairy farmers would be left in New South Wales in 10 years. Five years ago there were 6,000 dairymen in New South Wales. There has been a dramatic decline in the industry and a tremendous movement out of it. As was said in debate on the Dried Vine Fruits Stabilization Amendment Bill, the opportunity to get out of these industries now is not so bright because the alternatives are not there for people to enter into other forms of employment. It has also been estimated that in 10 years' time all dairy production could be serviced by 15 factories. At present there are 38 factories. 
The consumption trends in Australia for dairy products have not been good. In 1976-77 butter consumption fell by a record 13.7 per cent to an estimated 8 1 , 000 tonnes despite a fall in real retail prices of 5.3 per cent. This is a result of changes in consumer tastes and the availability of more acceptable alternatives. The other important factor is the fall of 12 per cent in the retail price of the main competitor- margarine. The effect of the removal of production quotas on margarine was quite dramatic on the dairy industry. The downward trend in the consumption of fluid milk and cream since the early 1970s seems to be easing. This easing probably will continue if retail prices are kept constant and if the recent introduction of low fat, high protein milk influences the situation. The important point about the consumption of whole milk is the dramatic effect of the successful promotion undertaken in Victoria which has showed the way to the fact that these products in the hands of professional people with a more aggressive marketing policy can be marketed in the same way as any other product. The consumption of cheese has been increasing steadily, I believe, but this is slowing down and is not likely to continue. 
I now turn to the relevance of the purpose of this levy Bill- the research in influencing consumption trends. I refer to the development of a butter-margarine blend and the marketing of other products, such as 'dairy soft', which has been marketed by the Australian Dairy Corporation. These are hoped to halt the decline in consumption. As I have mentioned before, the promotion of 'Big M' in Melbourne to boost sales of liquid milk resulted in an increase of nine per cent above the trend. It should be noted that whole milk sales return at least twice as much per unit to dairy farmers as manufactured products. Any innovations which can promote the consumption of whole milk as against manufactured products are much more desirable than trying to promote the manufactured products. 
A great deal of research activity has been going on in cheese production particularly by the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation in Melbourne. It has four major research projects operating, three of which are concerned with developing better cheese production techniques and improving cheese flavour. The CSIRO is also concerned with developing specialty cheeses. In Tasmania a new factory was opened recently following a fire. It is a very innovative factory which has an output of some 15,000 tonnes. It is operated by Lactos Pty Ltd. It uses the most advanced manufacturing processes, including computer techniques. Australians now eat about 76,000 tonnes of cheese annually, 58,520 tonnes of which is locally produced. The Lactos company believes that the local market in the future will be far more stable for specialty cheeses than for cheddar and tasty cheeses, although other people may not agree. 
It is obvious that research and promotion of dairy products are of extreme importance to the viability of the dairy industry. Some good work is going on in this area, but much more still needs to be done. Of course, our promotion activities overseas are also crucial. I shall speak briefly on the export situation. The international market, I understand, is undergoing a process of structural change which has increased its inherent instability and its sensitivity to sudden variations in the volume of traded supplies, particularly of butter and skim milk products. In this process it is believed that the prospects for cheese, whole milk powder and milk protein products appear to be generally more favourable. The problem now seems to be that world stocks are high and production in most producer countries is expanding while demand is declining. This could have very adverse effects on world prices. 
Australia is faced with a contracting domestic market, changing demand patterns at home and overseas, and structural changes in the international market. This means alterations in both the pattern and the direction of Australian trade in dairy products. Our main markets are in Japan, but in this area we expect strong competition from New Zealand and possibly the European Economic Community through some of its dumping practices. The Untied States of America and Canada are unlikely to become regular outlets for Australian products. There are also prospects for our products in Latin America, particularly Mexico, and smaller outlets in the Middle East, particularly for cheese. Asian markets are primarily for milk recombining products and joint venture operations of milk recombining plants. 
A substantial proportion of Australian dairy products still has to be disposed of overseas. In 1976-77 exports accounted for 29 per cent of milk production. Ten years ago the figure was 36 per cent. This poses a problem as returns for exports are well below domestic returns. The overriding problem is the marketing of our products both overseas and locally. Technology exists for very efficient production of dairy products and research is going on for the continual refining and diversification of these products. Perhaps more emphasis should be placed on market research programs in relation to local and overseas markets. I support the Bills. 
I must first refer to the remarks of the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Dean)  who asked whether in the Australian Capital Territory the people were getting value for money. I do not think that that is the question that should be asked. We must remember clearly that the sorts of decisions to spend in Canberra huge quantities of money have not been the decisions of its people. For instance, they were not a party to the decision to construct the Lower Molonglo Sewerage Treatment Plant, which cost something like $30m, and which must very shortly be passed on through the sewerage rates. It is designed, I understand, to provide for up to a million people. 
The people of Canberra were not a party to the decision to build the new Googong dam water supply, which certainly will not be needed in the immediate future but which, again, will load the water rates of the people of Canberra. The same can be said of the Waniassa College, which is now under wraps. The people of Canberra were not involved in that decision in any shape or form, nor were they involved in the construction of the Calvary Hospital, which we are unable to staff or put beds in. The public should be made aware that these decisions are completely out of the hands of the people of Canberra. Again, it was not their decision that the city was so dispersed as to make bus services very expensive to operate. These were decisions made by the Federal Government. 
We have this ridiculous situation in which the national Parliament is tonight debating accounts which normally one would find before a municipal council, or even a State Government; in which the national Parliament has to debate such things as the cost of lighting and cleaning in the capital city; the Canberra Show Ground Trust; and the cost of operating Lake Burley Griffin. These are all matters with which Federal members, in their own States, are not concerned. They are not concerned with municipal matters or with State expenditures. Yet the Federal Parliament is asked to spend its time on the consideration of municipal accounts, lighting coststhe whole lot. These things are terribly important to the people of Canberra but I suggest that they are not to the Federal Parliament and should not be the subject of scrutiny by it. 
The present Government stands condemned because of its failure to initiate some form of selfgovernment whereby the people who have to pay the bills have some say in decisions about how money is spent in Canberra. The present policy has existed for far too long. This Government gave a definite undertaking that it would grant Canberra people a say in the running of the city. It has reneged on those undertakings. It has now sought the soft option of offering a referendum. No doubt at that referendum the haves will vote to ensure that the have nots have no say in the way in which Canberra is run. The way it is run at the moment suits some people but it does not suit a lot of other people. It is the height of absurdity for people to come into this chamber and criticise the people of Canberra because certain facilities are so costly. It is not their decision. Quite clearly, it is the decision of this Parliament, and people should be well aware of that by now. 
-That is right; bash Canberra. That is what this Budget is all about. It is just a continuation of the Canberra bashing process that has gone on ever since this Government came to power. Let us look at another very substantial item in the Budget. On page 36 of Budget Paper No. 2 is listed the cost for the computer services of the Department of the Capital Territory. Last year the cost was $624,415. This year it is to be $1,491,900. I do not know precisely what the computers do. I know some of the things they do. I cannot understand how it would cost almost $1.5m for the Department's share of a computer to handle its accounts. It is not that the accounts are being handled efficiently. They are being handled very inefficiently. They are studded with mistakes, sometimes very serious mistakes. People have been seriously overcharged in their rental accounts. Some have been overcharged for years and the mistakes have not been picked up by the computer. 
I understand that the explanation of the cost for computer services is that the system was imposed on the Department of the Capital Territory by the Public Service Board as its share of the MANDATA program. We all know that this has been a disastrous program. It has cost the Government millions and millions of dollars, and it is not working efficiently. Yet the Government has put practically $ 1.5 m onto the vote for the Department of the Capital Territory for computer services. Not only did the people of Canberra have nothing to do with the MANDATA scheme. I suggest that this Parliament did not even know it was going on. Did we know that the MANDATA scheme was to be initiated? Were we advised on how efficient or how inefficient it was to be? I suggest that the Parliament was conned into having it adopted. Of course, once these programs start it is very difficult to stop them. I think we have reached a very serious situation when these sorts of computer services can be brought in without any consultation. The Department of the Capital Territory had no say in the decision to put that computer system into the Department. It is a very substantial item which went up by 120 per cent in one year. This is the sort of thing that is going on all the time. Yet people have the hide to say that Canberra people are over-indulged and they get it easy. It is utter nonsense, and I think most people are starting to realise it now. 
In the next 12 or 18 months the people will be far more aware of the injustices that will take place because of the sorts of programs that have gone on without any reference to the people of Canberra. I think the water and sewerage rates are considered reasonable at the moment. In 12 months when the impact of the Googong Dam and the lower Molonglo sewerage treatment works is felt, it may be necessary to raise sewerage rates by anything up to 100 per cent or even 200 per cent. This will be necessary to cover servicing of the capital on those huge projects which the people of Canberra had nothing to do with and which are planned to cater for a population of up to one million people. That population may never be reached. In any case, it will not be reached for a long time. However, people are expected to pay for these facilities now. Of course, the Federal Government does not pay its full share of them. 
We might well ask: Even if the expected growth rates of Canberra had been taken into account, would an elected representative body have made a decision that would cost ratepayers so dearly in the future? The experts who made such decisions are not accountable for these decisions. The Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Ellicott)  is not accountable to the people of Canberra. It is absurd for the Minister to say that the Australian Capital Territory has a form of self-government because the honourable member for Canberra  (Mr Haslem)  and I are in the Federal Parliament. We cancel out each other's vote. So virtually the Australian Capital Territory has no representation here at all. If I were to move an amendment it would be interesting to see whether the honourable member for Canberra would cross the floor. I do not think so. We would just cancel out each other's vote. So it is an absurd argument to say that the Australian Capital Territory has a form of self-government. This is an argument which the present Minister uses. 
Residents can be very vocal about particular development proposals. They are very vocal now about the proposals for development of the area along Ginninderra Creek. The people have to make their voices heard to stop the recreational areas being built out by the National Capital Development Commission. They were very vocal about the plans to build on the foothills of Mount Majura and Mount Ainslie. I think most members of the Parliament would have supported the people of Canberra in preventing the development on those foothills because they are just as concerned to preserve the original Burley Griffin concept. 
When looking at the municipal accounts we see that they include matters such as parks andgardens, the dog pound, garbage collection, what to do with sump oil, public toilet facilities and libraries. What important topics these are for the Federal Parliament to be dealing with! I think it is high time that the Government came to realise that the people will not continue to put up with this nonsense for ever. It is time that people in Canberra were given the responsibility of making decisions about how and where their money is spent. They should not have these tremendous charges imposed on them, only to hear members in this Parliament criticise them because of the standards in Canberra. The people do not set the standards in Canberra. It is high time that the Minister grasped the nettle and made a decision to give the people in Canberra some responsibility and the opportunity of electing people who are responsible directly to the Canberra electorate and not to an electorate somewhere in Victoria or New South Wales, so that if they do not perform the people of Canberra have the right of recall. That is what we have been waiting for this Government to do. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker - 
Motion ( by  Mr Bourchier)  put: 
That the honourable member for Macarthur be granted an extension of time. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 13 September 1978: 
What contractual arrangements have been entered into concerning surveillance of Australia's coastline by sea and air. 
What will be the total cost of such an arrangement during 1978-79. 
I direct my question to the Prime Minister. I refer to possible changes in study leave conditions which pose a threat to the academic standards of Australian universities. Has the Government received the second report of the Tertiary Education Commission on study leave? Does the Government intend to table the report and allow some discussion of it? When does the Prime Minister intend to make a statement on the issue? 
It would take me several hours even to list the grievances of the people of Australia generally and the people of Canberra in particular about the results of decisions of this Government, particularly those announced in the recent Budget. One of the main grievances relates to the very vicious attacks that are being carried out at the moment against our educational standards. It is rather sickening to hear the sorts of pious platitudes that the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Roger Johnston)  uttered in trying to create an impression that this Government is really concerned about educational standards, when the reality of course is quite different. 
I am expressing an opinion,  Mr Deputy Speaker. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 23 August 1978. 
How much income tax collected in the Australian Capital Territory during 1976-77 was shown on notices of assessment as being distributed to (a) State governments and (b) local government. 
) To whom were these amounts paid. 
I enter this debate to bring to the attention of the Committee the general disarray of the legal system which is operating in Canberra at the moment. I have no doubt that the shortcomings in Canberra would be at least as bad in many other parts of Australia and possibly worse. The system tends to function to the disadvantage of unprivileged people, the very people who are in need of the protection of the law. Obviously something is very wrong with the profession when so many members of the Government give up the profession and their lucrative practice to become politicians. This, of course, includes my colleague the honourable member for Canberra  (Mr Haslem)  who was once a member of that profession and who decided to enter the honourable profession of being a politician. Only last week reports appeared in the  Canberra Times  relating to delays which occur in the setting down of cases for hearing in the Court of Petty Sessions. The chief magistrate,  Mr Kilduff,  attributed - 
He was appointed by the Australian Labor Party Government, and an excellent appointment it was. He attributed these delays to staff shortages, inadequacies in the administrative arrangements between the courts and the Attorney-General's Department and the hopeless situation in respect of legislative reform and amendment.  Mr Kilduff  instances two cases in that week which had to be put over until next year because of insufficient staff at the court. In the same report he said that he had been corresponding with the Attorney-General's Department for a number of years about the general decline of justice in the Australian Capital Territory but that no meeting had taken place between himself and the Attorney-General's Senior Private Secretary even to discuss the matter. What a disgusting state of affairs that is. 
The Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  subsequently accused  Mr Kilduff  of exaggeration. He claimed that there was sufficient staff and accommodation for the five magistrates and the two special magistrates. According to the  Canberra Times,  the  President  of the Australian Capital Territory Law Society,  Mr Harper,  did not share that view, nor did the  President  of the Bar Association,  Mr Peter  Sheils, nor did the  President  of the Police Association,  Mr Peter  Neil. They have all called for some action to be taken to alleviate the staffing and accommodation situation in Canberra. Clearly, the Attorney-General is out of touch and is out on a limb in his view that  Mr Kilduff  is exaggerating the poor state of justice in the Australian Capital Territory. 
By way of illustration- there are plenty of them- the Family Courts are particularly disadvantaged, with two judges sitting, reportedly doing the work of five. The probation system is under severe strain due to lack of personnel, at a time when extra calls are made on staff resources. Further, because we have no corrective insitutions for juveniles in the Australian Capital Territory, the remand system is under strain, with young people who may wish to appeal against committal to New South Wales institutions having to wait up to 5 1 days for their cases to come before the court. The problem of education for these young people was the subject of a report undertaken by the Australian Capital Territory Schools Authority recently. Only yesterday, as reported in the  Canberra Times  the AttorneyGeneral admitted that the backlog of legal aid cases would get worse, which will mean increasing difficulty for those who can least afford it. 
In my electorate office we see- I am sure all members see this- many cases of hardship brought about by delays particularly in the area of compensation. I have one case of a single parent who has been waiting for a settlement for five years. In that time he has had to bring up a teenage family. He has gone into debt and has had to live on the poverty line waiting for this settlement; just at the time when he most needed a settlement he has not been able to get it.  His  family has grown up in the meantime and he is still waiting. Only last week I had a constituent who came to me as her son had been killed in a fatal accident 2V4 years ago. She had been to a solicitor to make a claim but after 2V4 years nothing appeared to have happened. She took the matter to another solicitor. He told her it was now too late to make a claim. This is just plain irresponsibility and I have referred her to the legal aid claims people. I believe we have all had these cases of compensation which have gone on for years and years. I think it is the same throughout the country. 
There are other delays of course, particularly in the drafting of legislation for the Australian Capital Territory. I understand there is an establishment of six draftsmen in the AttorneyGeneral's Department. At the moment two of the six positions are vacant and are being advertised, leaving four draftsmen to handle all the legislative drafting for the following departments: Department of the Capital Territory; the Department of Education; the Health Commission; Treasury; the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs and the AttorneyGeneral's Department. Even with a full quota of six officers it is quite apparent that the work load of these departments cannot be adequately handled with the present staff. 
There are many examples of legislation which has been outstanding for many, many years waiting for an enactment in the Australian Capital Territory. There is the dentists registration legislation which calls for the registration of dentists' assistants. There is the ordinance to permit donor transplants; we have been waiting for that for years. People still have to go to Sydney for those operations. There is legislation concerning motor vehicles' safety harnesses for vehicles which concerns many parents; that is long overdue. There is mental health legislation which has been in the drafting stage for three years. Further, there is legislation to prevent abuses by the medical profession in the dispensing of methadone to heroin addicts. All of this legislation is urgently needed and people have been waiting for years for it. A working party was set up to review the legislation concerning harsh and unconscionable contracts, but no new legislation is as yet forthcoming. 
The daddy of them all is the shops and factories legislation in the Australian Capital Territory. 
This has been kicking around in the Department for the past 25 years- 25 years for legislation to give adequate control of health standards in shops and safety standards for workers in factories. Nor has the Department of the Capital Territory been able to enforce the lease purpose clauses for residential leases in the Australian Capital Territory. It appears that any major legislation now takes up to three years to be implemented. Another matter of concern is the lack of availability of copies of existing legislation. Between 50 and 60 Australian Capital Territory ordinances are not available to the public. We have been told each year that these will be available next year. We have had the same story this year that by next year we are going to get the new issues of all these 50 or 60 ordinances that are not available. 
I would like to draw attention to a rather unseemly incident which occurred in Civic Square, Canberra, last Saturday morning. For a considerable time now it has been established practice for various political groups and other organisations interested in public issues to set up stalls in the Civic Centre and display their wares. It is literature which they put on tables. It is not thrust under people's noses, but it is there for people to read or to purchase if they so wish; it is not material which competes with private business. There are all sorts of groups including the Australian Independence Movement, the AntiUranium Movement, the Campaign for Independent East Timor. All of these groups have been there from time immemorial and it has been an established practice. However, last Saturday a young man from the Australian Independence Movement stall was arrested after being questioned as to whether he had a hawkers licence. I ask the Government or the Minister whether it is now the Government's policy to use ordinances to control hawkers licences and to restrict freedom of political expression in Canberra. This is what happened last Saturday morning. This type of action is to be deplored as an infringement of civil liberties. It is an arbitrary restriction of free political expression and I hope the Minister does something to see that it does not happen again. 
In conclusion, I would submit that the legal system as it operates today in Canberra, and I think in many other parts of Australia, serves the property and vested interests much more effectively than it serves the interests of individual citizens, particularly if those citizens happen to be people who have limited financial resources, if they happen to be new Australians or Australian citizens who may have language difficulties. I believe that the Attorney-General has a very heavy responsibility to see that these entrenched injustices are removed and not perpetuated. 

 - Mr Speaker, I seek your indulgence to ask you a question regarding an industrial dispute which affects your responsibility for the smooth running of the Parliament. I refer to the standing down or dismissal this morning, without any prior warning or consultation, of an employee of the Government Printing Office, which puts at risk the printing of the notice papers and  Hansard  of the Parliament. I ask: Are you aware of the situation and what action do you propose to take so that the processes of the Parliament may continue and this dispute may be resolved? 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 1 7 August 1 978: 
What leasing or other arrangement covers the use of Commonwealth land at (a) the Harold E. Holt naval communication station, North West Cape, Western Australia and (b) the Pine Gap Joint Defence Research Facility, Alice Springs, Northern Territory. 
Is the arrangement similar in each case; if not, in what respects do they differ. 
What specific conditions cover the building of structures and installation of equipment at these facilities. 
Have the leasing conditions been adhered to. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Transport and remind him that it is now over two years since he requested a report from the 
Bureau of Transport Economics on the realignment and reconstruction of the Federal Highway from Goulburn to Canberra. I understand that the report was completed two months ago. Will the Minister tell the House when he intends to table the report? In view of the deterioration of the Highway since his Government came to power, will he recommend to the Government the restructuring of the Federal Highway as a means of stimulating some activity in the private sector and matching the efforts of the State Government in this respect? 
I support the legislation. However, I must say that I am very surprised that the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume)  should come into this place and shed crocodile tears for the meat processors. No doubt I was one of the people to whom he referred when he spoke about allegations being made about the profits that the exporters have made in recent times. I do not retract any of those statements whatsoever. Figures produced by the New South Wales Department of Agriculture- they are not my figures- show quite clearly that the meat exporters and the meat processors generally were profiting at the expense of the producers. The figures show quite plainly that over the period they were kept the share of the processor increased by 300 per cent. It went from something like 7 per cent of the consumer's dollar to over 20 per cent. No doubt that share will come back when cattle prices go up. I hope it will, but I am not sure whether that will be the case. Certainly the record shows that they have done extremely well. It is nonsense for the honourable member for Macarthur to come in here and shed crocodile tears for these very wealthy meat exporting companies. They have done extremely well over many years. 
I will have the figures brought up to date. I did not bring them into the House with me tonight because I did not think the honourable member for Macarthur would want to talk about them. I thought he would be too embarrassed to do so. I will make them public in respect of the share of the consumer's dollar that the processor gets and also the profit record of the leading meat companies in Australia over the last few years. I can assure the honourable member that they have done very nicely indeed and that there was no need for him to come in here and shed crocodile tears about them. The Vesteys, the Borthwicks, the Andersons, the Hookers, the Walkers, the Anglisses, the Playfairs and the Tancreds have all done very nicely thank you. They have been able to do nicely because in many parts of Australia they are able to manipulate the market. They not only own the killing works but also own a lot of the cattle. So they can feed the cattle into the killing works to suit themselves and the poor old independent producer has to take what is left. They can manipulate the market in a way which disadvantages the small producer and advantages their own production. 
This happens in Queensland and the Northern Territory. There is no question about it. 
I will produce the figures. 
-The Opposition supports this legislation, as it always supports positive legislation which will increase funds for research purposes in any area of primary industry. Of course, assistance is particularly necessary now in the poultry industry, which is faced with fairly substantial increases in feed costs following the new Australian Wheat Board arrangements which restrict across-the-board trade. This will result in a very significant increase in the whole cost structure of the poultry industry. The Opposition believes that the benefits of research in almost any industry are undeniable. This is particularly so in the poultry industry in terms of production, cost efficiency and particularly market research, to which the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  referred. 
There is a clear case for increased funding of research in this industry, although research is often a risky business. I notice that in the annual report of the Poultry Research Advisory Committee some of the projects begun some years ago have had to be abandoned as it has become apparent that the approaches taken were misdirected. The costs of other projects were found to be unjustifiable in terms of their expected results. Nevertheless, a considerable amount of very good work is being done within the industry and within the various research institutions. 
I would like to refer briefly to some of the research being carried out. In the area of disease control, valuable findings have resulted from research related to Newcastle disease. The time is approaching for the production of a vaccine based on the mild Australian strains of Newcastle disease that would give protection against the more virulent strains which may come in from overseas at any time despite our precautions. Production of such a vaccine is most urgent since it has been found that about 30 per cent of flocks tested showed signs of present or past infections with one of the mild strains of Newcastle disease. In other words, no more than a quarter of the Australian birds, and possibly less, carry enough antibodies to resist the other more virulent strains. If a virulent strain of Newcastle disease infected a flock or flocks with a high protection from our mild strains, the virulent strain could build up without being detected and there could be very serious repercussions. Other important research work includes work on infectious bronchitis, the growing of avian viruses in bird cell cultures and the development of a vaccine for Marek's disease. 
Another important area, of course, is the area of nutrition research. Work has been directed towards the possible substitution of cereals lower in cost than wheat, which is the staple product for poultry foods. Soya bean meal, peanut meal, various oil seed meals, sorghums and possibly heavy yielding strains of maize in certain areas are suitable substitutes in certain market circumstances. Research is also being carried out into the consequences for the production of protein restriction in feeding programs, selective breeding of efficient layers, upgrading of egg quality and so on. 
The poultry industry, of course, is responsive to genetic research. The life cycle of poultry is so short that one can measure the results of genetic selection in a very short time. Certainly in the poultry meat area one can see the result of one's selections in just a few weeks. One can draw conclusions very quickly, certainly much sooner than someone in the beef industry, for example, who has to wait a long while to see the results of his research. As I have said, research in the poultry industry is both necessary and commendable if the industry is to maintain and improve its efficiency in relation to both domestic and export markets. 
Of course, we all realise that the industry is based on the domestic market. The export market is a loss market. If we did not have an export market and our production was such that we did not need it the domestic industry would be much sounder and the public would receive much cheaper eggs. Few consumers may be aware that Australian sales of eggs have been declining in recent years. It is good to see the egg marketing organisations planning a national scheme to boost sales in response to this decline. I understand that they will be directing their efforts mainly at children, who eat more eggs than any other group. I understand the plan requires the approval of the Council of Egg Marketing Authorities of Australia, the Commonwealth body, before it can be launched. I have no doubt that that will be forthcoming. 
A spokesman for the Victorian Egg Board is reported in a recent edition of the  Australian Financial Review  as saying that he wants to see more of the annual egg surplus sold in Australia than overseas, where eggs are sold at a loss. Certainly this is a much more positive approach to egg marketing than the practice of sustaining heavy losses overseas. The only problem with marketing research, of course, is that one often increases the consumption of one product at the expense of another. Whilst one may spend a lot of money on selling more eggs, the response may be that the pig industry may then decide to spend a lot more money competing with the egg industry. If we are trying to promote something that is to replace an import, certainly this is very good. If we are promoting a product on the basis of nutritional value, I think that too is good. I do not know how we can avoid one product competing with another. Certainly it is very good for the advertising agencies to have products competing with each other for a share of the consumer's dollar. 
I thought the spokesman of the Victorian Egg Board made a rather interesting remark when he said that the Board wants to sell its surplus in Australia and not overseas. Certainly in recent years the Victorian Egg Board has been responsible for some very questionable behaviour in the way in which it has gone about selling its surplus eggs in Australia. It has invaded the Australian Capital Territory market, which was traditionally a New South Wales Egg Board market and which more recently has been a market for substantially local production which set out to supply the local need. I say without any hesitation that the Victorian Egg Board is culpable of dumping surplus eggs in the Australian Capital Territory. I will return to that point in a moment. However, I just want to say that if the national promotion campaign is successful it is hoped that the success will not be at the expense of other high quality primary products but will be because of the better nutritional choices by consumers. 
In relation to the situation in Canberra, I want to make it clear that the Canberra consumer has been in the situation of having to pay the hen levy, which is $1 per hen per year, and it is now mooted that it will become $2 next year. The levy is equivalent to 4c per dozen eggs. The producer pays $1 a year for every laying bird he has, but he passes that cost on to the consumer. So in effect the consumers in Canberra have been paying 4c a dozen more for eggs than they should pay because the Canberra producer has to pay the Council of Egg Marketing Authority's levy. The CEMA levy would be fair enough if we got the benefits from it. Traditionally we have not contributed to exports, and a lot of the levy money goes to subsidise the loss on exports. So we do not contribute to the exportable surplus but we do contribute to the levy. 
If we had the protection of orderly marketing, that would be fair enough, and until recently we have had that protection. However, now we find the Victorian Egg Board coming in and selling eggs, initially under very unfair competitive conditions against locally produced eggs. They offered special incentives to retailers to buy their eggs rather than locally produced eggs. The retailers margin was increased but there was no price benefit to the consumer. All the arrangements did was ensure that some of the eggs supplied to consumers in Canberra are not as fresh as the locally produced eggs. When transport costs were added to the discount offered, it was obvious that the Victorian Egg Board was selling eggs for much less in Canberra than in Victoria. This resulted in court action, and an injunction was taken out which restrained the Victorian Egg Board from selling eggs below the price for which they were selling in Victoria. However, it is still selling eggs here and now has about 20 per cent of the market. We do not know what sort of kick-back arrangements the Board has, but the net result is that it is creating an artificial surplus of locally produced eggs in Canberra, which have to be off-loaded on to the New South Wales Egg Board. The Victorian Board has moved in and taken 20 per cent of our market and 20 per cent of the local product now has to be dumped on the New South Wales Board. That is orderly marketing gone mad. 
I wrote to the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  about this ridiculous situation, and I will quote from his response. He said that the matter was discussed at a meeting of the Australian Agricultural Council, which is the appropriate body to discuss these matters, and in view of the implications of what I had told the Minister, the following resolution was agreed upon by the Council: 
that all States and Territories refrain from marketing eggs in areas outside their State or Territory other than in accordance with undertakings given at the time of the introduction of the hen levy scheme; any departure should be mutually agreed upon between the respective Boards or Territory administrations; and 
that the Victorian Egg Board be informed that its actions in discounting eggs in the ACT is contrary to orderly marketing policies for eggs. 
The Minister's letter concluded: 
Appropriate action is being taken to inform the Victorian Egg Board of the Council 's resolution. 
The practice is still going on, although not in quite the same terms. However, basically the problem is still there. The direction of the Agricultural Council has been disregarded, and in place of the orderly marketing that we should have we have extremely disorderly marketing. There is no question that that is the situation in Canberra at the moment. One very large local producer supplies a very good product- excellent quality, excellent colour, and always fresh- and employs 56 workers in his establishment in Canberra. These people are now concerned about their jobs because of the continuing intrusion of the Victorian Egg Board, in defiance of the wishes of the Australian Agricultural Council and in defiance of the general proposition that egg boards were set up to stabilise and organise marketing. It is a ridiculous situation which reflects no credit on the State boards and no credit on the Australian Agricultural Council if they cannot impose a degree of common sense in this matter. 
It is apparent that egg marketing, despite the fact that it is a highly socialised industry and highly subsidised by consumers, is not working well. The whole problem is that the States do not control production. They are supposed to have licensing systems, but they have been very pussyfooted about the way in which they have introduced licensing systems to restrict production. They have continued to produce a surplus, and are very jealous of their States' rights. They seem to think that it is their privilege to produce a surplus, but when it comes to disposing of that surplus they unload it on to the Federal Government. They say that constitutionally it is the responsibility of the Federal Government to dispose of agricultural surplus. This is a very nice arrangement, but it results in an increased cost to the consumer. We lose heavily on our exports of pulp or egg powder or whatever we sell. If these boards were working efficiently and in a rational manner, production would be trimmed down to meet the local market. If that happened the consumers of Australia would get much cheaper eggs and we would not have the ridiculous situation of local consumers subsidising the export loss. The problem is not solved by Victorian producers trying to divert their surplus. Instead of sending it overseas at a loss they are sending it into the Australian Capital Territory and competing unfairly with locally produced eggs. I think that that is an intolerable situation, and it is up to the Minister for Primary Industry to exert some authority and sort it out so that these things do no continue, to the detriment of both consumers and producers. 
In relation to Canberra, although I have asked the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Ellicott)  to intervene and introduce legislation to protect the local producers, he has done nothing. This is just another argument which might influence people to support the referendum for self-government being held next Saturday. If we had locally elected people who were responsible to those who work in the local egg industry, Canberra people might think more seriously about self-government. Locally elected people who were responsible to the local people would be under pressure to legislate to look after their local industries. Our Minister is elected in Sydney, and although I am not saying that he is disinterested in employment he certainly has not seen fit to take any action. Although on paper we have an egg marketing authority, a licensing authority within the Department of the Capital Territory, it has really done nothing to protect the local people and local jobs. This is another very good argument for the view that it is time the people of Canberra elected representatives who are responsible to them and who are prepared to legislate to look after the interests of both producers and consumers in the Australian Capital Territory. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer the Minister to the continuing delay in arrangements for the reunification of Timorese families in Australia. I ask the Minister: Is the de jure recognition of the Indonesian takeover of Portuguese East Timor a precondition for the finalisation of these arrangements? If not, what is the cause of the delay? I also ask: Is de jure recognition also a precondition of the finalisation of the sea bed boundary between Australia and Indonesia in the Timor Sea? 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 16 November 1978: 
What preparatory work has been undertaken by departments and statutory authorities in anticipation of the implementation of the freedom of information legislation. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 16 November 1978: 
1 ) Is it the practice of the translation service of his department not to translate partisan political views for release to the ethnic press. 
If so, was this the reason for the refusal by the translation unit to translate a communique issued by the ACT Teachers' Federation regarding staffing in ACT schools. 
Is it a fact that instructions have been given to the translation unit to translate as top priority the Prime Minister's weekly electorate talk; if so, is this consistent with Departmental policy. 
Is the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs aware that during April 1978 two small tanker ships, the  Botany Trader  and the  Botany Trust,  which carry vegetable oils, arrived in Sydney from the Philippines and unloaded certain items of furniture without customs clearances and without the knowledge of the customs authorities? Is it a fact that the importer of the furniture had arranged the shipment through the shipping companies and their agents with a deliberate intention of avoiding the payment of customs duty? What action was taken against the person and the shipping agents concerned? Was customs duty paid? What penalties were imposed for the non-payment of customs? Is the Minister prepared to table the documents concerned with this case? 
I want to use my few minutes tonight to express my very deep concern at reports that have been going around Canberra in the last few days that the methadone program carried out by the Capital Territory Health Commission is about to be wound down. This is of great concern not only to the 1 50 to 200 known heroin addicts but also to those many bodies that are working on this very grave and serious problem in the Australian Capital Territory. This program was undertaken only late last year. It followed the introduction of legislation in the Australian Capital Territory which provided for the registration of heroin addicts as the basis for the methadone treatment. The legislation for the program was acknowledged not as an answer to the problem of heroin addiction but as something that was necessary to overcome some of the abuses of the use of methadone for the treatment of heroin addiction. 
It became well known in Canberra last year- I know the honourable member for Canberra  (Mr Haslem)  referred to this one night- that addicts who were endeavouring to beat the heroin habit were able to secure prescriptions for methadone from several medical practioners by using different names. They would get the methadone in tablet form. Many of them then dissolved the tablets and were able to inject massive overdoses of methadone into their veins in the same way as they used heroin. In addition, some of them were reselling it to pushers or to heroin addicts, and the use of methadone was greatly abused. When the program was set up by the Government the need for it was well demonstrated by the fact that 120 people came along and registered for the program. The program consisted of daily doses taken by mouth, under supervision so the methadone could not be taken away from the premises, and there was a gradual reduction of the dose rate consistent with the patient's capacity to cope with that reduction. I am under no illusion about the inadequencies of methadone as a cure for drug addiction. We know it has grave limitations and, in itself, has been only marginally effective. However, the methadone program did have many very positive side benefits. It certainly exposed these unfortunate people to counselling services, to group therapy and to group support. They got together and were able to support each other in their problems and were able to give each other moral and physical support. It also allowed the health authorities to exercise some monitoring of the problem of heroin in the Australian Capital Territory and some control over the misuse of methadone. In addition, it stopped trafficking in methadone and its use by those participating in the program. I understood that as another side effect it reduced the demand for heroin and the cost of heroin in the street dropped from $50 to $30 a deal. 
I wish to cite a report to support my view that there is a lot going for the methadone program, even though we acknowledge that it is not a cure for the problem. The National Health and Medical Research Council, in a paper issued the year before last, concluded that methadone programs, although still in need of further study and refinement, can be extremely valuable for a small group of chronically addicted individuals and should be made available to them. The use of the methadone program did offer hope for some addicts. Some were able to beat the habit and be cured. It also enabled others to better hold down jobs- many of these people hold responsible jobs both in private enterprise and in Public Service- and gave them some reasonable hope of a normal life. There is considerable evidence of improved job performance and less crime than when they were on heroin. 
If the report is true, I think that the people are entitled to ask why this program, which was undertaken only a few weeks ago with the full knowledge of the limitations of methadone, is now being scaled down. What will happen to these heroin addicts when the program has run down? Will they be thrown back to the old system which was open to abuse, will they be forced back into crime to feed the heroin habit, or will they be forced back into the unsatisfactory situation in which they were when they were dependent on the private practitioners to prescribe for them? 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I am pleased to support this Bill on behalf of the Opposition. However, I must say that the business people of Canberra will support it in the way that a poor man would accept crumbs from a rich man's table because that is about the effect it will have on the business people of Canberra. The raising of the exemption limit will in fact be very acceptable to small businesses. Businesses which pay wages or salaries of less than $1,250 a week will be exempt from payroll tax. I anticipate that this legislation will apply to many businesses which employ relatively small numbers of people- in the five to eight people bracket. I am sure that it will be very acceptable to a large number of businesses. I understand that something like 80 per cent of businesses in Canberra are what we would call small businesses and they will get some very marginal benefit from the Bill before us. 
In acknowledging this very marginal benefit I think it is only fair to point out to the House and to the public at large the very critical situation that has developed in Canberra. Some people and many members of Parliament are still unaware of the unemployment position and the position of business generally in Canberra. At the end of January Canberra had an unemployment rate of 9.6 per cent, which was the highest in the Commonwealth. I have no doubt that the rate is now over 10 per cent. This means in fact that about 8,000 people are unemployed in Canberra. The number of people unemployed in November 1975 was 2,000. So there has been a 400 per cent increase in the number of people unemployed since the end of the fateful days of the Labor Government. 
The most disturbing element in the latest unemployment figures is the massive increase in the number of unemployed adult males. This means that unemployment is biting quite deeply into the breadwinner section of the employment sector. In fact the figures show an increase of a little over 100 adult males in December. However, the number leapt up to 450 in January which is a massive increase. There was an unfortunate but expected increase in unemployed junior males and females for this period due to a seasonal factor. But the massive increase in adult male unemployment was unexpected and very deplorable. 
I am afraid the old growth rates of around 10 per cent are something of the past. The National Capital Development Commission and the Department of the Capital Territory talk about continuing growth rates of two per cent or three per cent. However, I think even those growth rates are now at risk. The Government always talks about improvements to our major cities. However, measures to achieve this objective never quite eventuate. I believe that the employment situation will merely encourage people to leave Canberra and that the two per cent to three per cent growth rate could disappear altogether. We could finish up with a net loss of population in Canberra in the next few years. This would be a very dismal prospect for the business people here. It is interesting to quote from the debate that took place on this same topic in November 1976. My colleague, the honourable member for Canberra  (Mr Haslem),  made a very good speech. I do not think that he will mind me quoting what he had to say, although I think he ex: pressed these views as a pious hope rather than as an expectation. On that occasion he said: 
The long haul back to economic sanity is progressing well. The legislative and other measures to broaden the economic base of Canberra which are being introduced by the Government recognise the advantages of sound economic planning and a sound economic base for the Australian Capital Territory as it approaches maturity. 
That was in 1976. Of course, now the Australian Capital Territory has not only matured; it has become overripe. In fact, it has gone bad. To put it crudely, we could say that the economic and unemployment situation in Canberra stinks. It has really gone bad. It has really matured and come good. The honourable member for Canberra went on to say: 
I would think that all in all Canberra is becoming pleased with the measures being introduced by this Government. 
The honourable member for Canberra said that. I do not want to embarrass him but I know that he must be very disappointed that his expectations were not fulfilled. He made a very good speech at the time but, as I say, Canberra has gone bad. We have seen the sound economic planning that my colleague was talking about in the Australian Capital Territory reflected in Public Service staff ceilings, lack of employment opportunities for young people, departments left with inadequate staff to carry out essential functions and facilities to provide the amenities needed in Canberra. We have seen heavy cuts in the budget of the National Capital Development Commission which have completely wrecked the building industry. Businesses have gone broke. They have gone into liquidation. Tradesmen have left Canberra by the thousands. There have been massive rent increases which have resulted in about 500 empty residential units owned by the Government in Canberra at this time. During the last six months there have been between 400 and 500 empty flats. They have been empty not because people do not want them but because they cannot afford to pay the excessive rents which this Government has imposed on them in Canberra. That is the sort of good economic planning and management to which the honourable member for Canberra was looking forward. 
We have also seen the savage cuts in funds for loans supplied by the Commissioner for Housing. There have been gross distortions due to staff ceilings. I was told today that one worker was paid for 198 hours work in a two week period. That situation has been created by the staff ceilings. This took place in the Department of the Capital Territory. One man worked 21 days straight. He had his first weekend off recently since Christmas. In the Australian Capital Territory 8,000 people are out of work. This is a disgusting situation. The Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Ellicott)  must take some responsibility for this position. People are required to do the work of two or three men while other people are out of work. We hear talk about inflation taking another man's job. In Canberra, staff ceilings take another man's job. They have grossly distorted the situation. I hope the Minister will look at the matter and do something about it. I can give him some more details on it if he is interested. 
There has also been a rash of liquidations in the business world. Many shops are empty. Only a couple of days ago one man had to move the stock from his two shops into one shop. He had to close down one shop because the overheads were too high and the turnover was not sufficient to keep two shops open. He had to consolidate and put off staff. The owners of small family businesses have been working extremely long hours and receiving no return just to keep the doors open. It is a pathetic situation. It is a disgrace for any government to have these sorts of conditions in the national capital of Australia. This Government has been quite unsympathetic and has done nothing to relieve the situation. Most of the time the Government does not even acknowledge that the position exists. 
I have checked around to see how businesses are doing. It seems to me that the only businesses that are thriving in the Australian Capital Territory- I do not know this from personal experience- are those associated with call girls, escort services and massage parlours. They are all doing very well and they are being advertised in Sydney. I do not know what this means. I know that it does not help the local people. It has been suggested that perhaps it reflects the great need for recreation under a government whose credibility is under great strain. They are the only businesses that are doing well in Canberra at the moment. Although this amending Bill gives some relief in respect of payroll tax, it must still be seen as an iniquitous burden on business. It is a tax on labour. It is a disincentive to employ people. It encourages the replacement of people by machines. It favours imports by increasing the cost of production. It discriminates against labour-intensive industries. Of course, the problem in the Australian Capital Territory is that payroll tax is of no benefit to the community because the money does not come back to the local administration. It goes into Consolidated Revenue. The States receive some benefit from payroll tax. The Australian Capital Territory does not except in a very indirect way. The tax serves to perpetuate this myth that Canberra people do not pay for themselves. Canberra people pay for themselves very well indeed. It is the Commonwealth which does not pay its way in Canberra because it does not pay payroll tax and land rates. People should acknowledge this fact. Indeed, the Government should acknowledge it. No direct benefit flows to Canberra from the collection of payroll tax in the Australian Capital Territory. 
The Opposition welcomes the introduction of this Bill because it provides slight relief to a very hard pressed business community. But it makes no significant contribution to resolving the very deep problems that affect business and the community in Canberra. The Government has been insensitive to our problems. It has not lifted a finger to relieve the situation. It has failed to supply adequate staff to the bureaucracy to carry out the important functions and responsibilities it has in Canberra. I can assure the House and the Government that it will take much more than a marginal adjustment to payroll tax for business people and the community at large to forget the shabby treatment they have received at the hands of this Government. 
-The Opposition supports these two Bills because we think that whilst there is grave doubt that there will be any benefit for consumers resulting from their enactment, they do lead to a higher level of stability within the industry and are in the interests of producers. The Bills in themselves raise a number of serious questions with which I shall deal. The Council of Egg Marketing Authorities of Australia levy with which the Bill is concerned is a levy which is collected to offset losses on exports of surplus production of eggs. If we had the well organised and well controlled industry that we have been trying to attain for many years there would not be a significant export surplus hanging around the neck of the industry because the surplus production which is sold for export is sold at a much lower rate of return than the domestic price. As is the custom with our primary industries, the Australian consumer has to pay extra to subsidise the export loss. This problem could be overcome of course if we could harmonise our production exactly to consumption. Unfortunately it is very difficult to do that with any agricultural products, including eggs. Of course there are times of the year when there is necessarily a surplus. The birds do not always harmonise their peaks of production with the peaks of demand by the Australian public. So at times there will be shortages and at other times there will be surpluses. 
Despite that, over the last few years the various State boards and State governments have been endeavouring to reduce the export loss by a system of licensing or hen quotas. If this system had been adhered to more rigidly and had not been subject to so much political pressure, the situation of production equalling domestic demand would have been reached much sooner. Unfortunately, that was not the case, and we have had an unnecessary surplus production for which the Australian consumer has had to pay and is continuing to pay. That is the contradiction in this Bill. The egg outlook is good on paper. It is said that production is likely to be down and that the exportable surplus also will be down. If we took only those factors into consideration there would be no need to increase the 
CEMAA levy, but what the Bill is doing is doubling the levy from $ 1 to $2 per bird. The Government said that that will be offset by the State boards reducing their pool charges. I hope that takes place because if it does the extra CEMAA levy will not be reflected in domestic prices. However, if the boards do not reduce their charges accordingly, the consumer will be paying more to offset the export loss. 
I am at a loss to understand why that should be so when the indications are that the percentage of the total product to be exported will be down and there are prospects that the return on exports may be increased. Most of the exports go to Japan. Some go to Iran but I do not know what the position will be in Iran this year. Australia may be a bit light on for export opportunities there. Nevertheless, the overall situation is that there will be a surplus, we will sell at a loss and the Australian public will have to pay for it in one way or another. That is not good news for the local consumers but it is good news for the producers. They support this Bill which will help to stabilise their industry. 
Other worrying features of the industry are the way in which hen quotas have become transferable and this inevitable process of having fewer farms, with the little producers going out of the industry, and more of the larger farms because of economies of scale. This is an inevitable process which applies in the poultry and other agricultural industries just as it applies in the manufacturing industries. Indeed, agricultural industries can be compared in many ways with the manufacturing industries. To give some indication of the change, in the last 10 years the percentage of farms with over 5,000 birds has increased from 3 per cent to 18 per cent. This has been the trend year after year. The big are getting bigger and the small are dropping out. They are able to transfer their quotas which have some considerable goodwill value, and we have heard of some quite fantastic prices being paid for hen quotas. 
I want to refer now to the second Bill which provides for the CEMAA levy to be refunded to producers in the Australian Capital Territory. This is very commendable, but I seek some clarification of precisely what it means because the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  in the second reading speech was not very clear about it. It should be understood that the Australian Capital Territory does not produce sufficient eggs to fulfil the local demand. Canberra has something like 150,000 hens but at least 200,000 are needed to meet the local demand. I think that this is a very unfair situation. The industry in the Australian Capital Territory does not contribute in any way to the export surplus and does not contribute to the loss, but it has to pay out the CEMAA levy. Over the years Canberra consumers have paid out something like $800,000 in CEMAA levies and there has been nothing received in return apart from the advantage of having a stabilised industry. I suppose that is fair enough, but as Canberra grows it is only fair that the quotas of local producers be increased so that they can meet the whole of the local demand. 
Unfortunately, a parochial attitude has been adopted by the State Ministers for Agriculture on the Australian Agricultural Council. They are the people who control the quotas and they have been quite bloody-minded about it. They have not given the Minister for the Capital Territory a fair go on the Council and they have stubbornly refused to increase the quotas of producers in the Australian Capital Territory so that they can dump their surplus eggs in Canberra. That is precisely what is happening. At the moment the Victorian Egg Board is selling eggs in Canberra. It has something like 20 per cent of the market. An injunction had to be taken out against the Board to stop it giving special discounts to retailers, but it is still selling eggs here at a lower price, with a lower return to producers in Victoria than it is selling them on the Victorian domestic market. The Victorian Board is dumping eggs in Canberra and it says that it would rather sell them here at a loss than put them in the export pool where it would lose more. This is a very unsatisfactory situation as far as Canberra is concerned. People here want fresh eggs, and if there are local producers who can sell them at a cheaper price than eggs which are handled through the State boards, they should be able to do so. 
The Bill provides for the levy to be refunded to Australian Capital Territory producers but it does not say whether that applies to the new levy or the whole levy. I understand that in the States the refund represents something like 75 per cent of the total levy. I should like the Minister to clarify that point to establish whether this levy is going to be refunded to the extent of 75 per cent because if it is the price to the consumer could be reduced. If it is not going to be refunded to that extent it means that the consumer in Canberra, as will consumers in other States, will have to pay more. 
I have made the point that Canberra producers have not had a fair go in relation to eggs. They do not want any favours. They want to be able to produce eggs and sell them to the people in Canberra. We do not want to be dependent on imports from the surpluses in the States, and the local producers do not want to contribute to the surplus. We want to meet the market and pay our way, and I think by the same token that the State Ministers for Agriculture should do their job to see that hen quotas are reduced to manageable levels so that the exportable surplus is reduced still further. If that happens, not only will the remaining producers benefit but also the consumers of Australia will cease having to pay 4c, 5c, or 10c a dozen extra in order to subsidise losses on surpluses exportable overseas. This is a situation which has been prevalent in many primary industries in Australia for many years. Fortunately, it is one problem with which the Government is now very belatedly coming to grips and trying to do something about. 
-For some time I and many other honourable members have been concerned at the manner by which legal processes are used to repossess or seize people 's private property and sell it by public auction in order to satisfy legal debts incurred. On the face of it the legal process may seem reasonable from the point of view of commercial interests which seek to protect their economic viability. If the goods were sold at somewhere near their full market value these processes could be seen as reasonable. But we all know that this is not the case and that more often than not the goods are sold by auction for a mere fraction of their true market value. The costs of cartage and advertising are deducted from the net return with the result that the citizen loses an essential household amenity and there is only a marginal reduction in the debt. 
I shall cite a couple of typical examples that have taken place in Canberra recently. I cite the case of a woman who had just finished paying off a freezer worth $800. It was seized by the bailiff to satisfy a debt of $400 and sold at auction to a single bidder for $80. The cost of advertising and transport was deducted and there was a net reduction in the debt of $48. So the lady lost her freezer, for which she had just finished paying, to satisfy another debt and had only $48 taken off the debt. Yesterday I had the case of a gentleman who had a tip truck with a new value of some $60,000. It was only a couple of years old, was in good shape and was valued on the market at $30,000. A hire purchase company sold it for $15,000 to satisfy a debt of $23,000. The man, unfortunately, also had a mortgage on his home and the home was sold to satisfy the debt. So he lost his business, his truck and his home because he could not meet this debt. 
Disturbing as this may seem, it was even more disturbing to find that not only are private commercial enterprises indulging in this perfectly legal practice; now government departments are getting into the act. The Department of Capital Territory, seeking overdue water rates, seems to aspire to become a pacesetter in this insidious process of seizing people's household goods. Recently a warrant was issued for the bailiff to seize a woman's washing machine. This lady happened to be a pensioner whose husband was on the dole. He had been made redundant. The proposed action was to satisfy a debt of $200. If the washing machine had been auctioned it probably would have been sold for $50. Fortunately I was able to make some arrangements, through the sympathy of a bank manager, to lend her the money to pay the debt and she was able to keep her washing machine. Today I had the case of a warrant having been issued to seize a lady's lounge suite and to auction it to meet an overdue water rate debt of $80. We know how much second-hand lounge suites are worth. It probably would have been sold for $10 or $20 and the debt would not have been satisfied. She is a single parent with a dependant son who is awaiting an accident claim. She is the victim of circumstances over which she had no control yet here we have a government department exercising the due processes of the law in a very unsympathetic manner. 
I suppose there is some moral justification for a hire purchase company that has to pay for the goods but water is not something that the Department of the Capital Territory has to manufacture. It is a natural resource; the Department only has to reticulate it. I think we should not see the Department of the Capital Territory as an overbearing sort of landlord which kicks people when they are down. The Department should be seen as a compassionate and sympathetic landlord. I appeal to the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Ellicott)  to exercise his discretion to see that his Department does not pursue people to the point of seizing their goods to satisfy debts for overdue water rates, and to see that his Department does not act with undue haste in handing over delinquent debts for collection by the due processes of the law as administered by the  Deputy  Crown Solicitor. 
-On behalf of the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory, I present the report of the Committee on Ginninderra Creek, Lake Ginninderra and proposals to vary the plan of layout of the city of Canberra and its environs, 66A series, together with a transcript of evidence and extracts from the minutes of proceedings. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I seek leave to make a short statement in connection with the report. 
Leave granted. 
-On behalf of the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory I have presented the report of the Committee on Ginninderra Creek and Lake Ginninderra which incorporates series 66A of variations to the plan of Canberra. Dissents have been recorded on two aspects of the Committee's recommendations. Because of the unique system of government in the Australian Capital Territory, this Committee often becomes an important avenue of appeal for citizens interested in or concerned about developments or proposals for development in the national capital. The Committee has in the past been involved in many issues of concern to residents of the Territory. The Committee's first report, which was presented in 1957, dealt with trading hours in Canberra. The Committee has also been involved in inquiries into the local milk industry, Sunday observance, employment opportunities, breathalyser tests, waste disposal and a range of others. 
Again, because of the system of government in the Territory the Australian Capital Territory Assembly was able to express its opinion to the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Ellicott)  on the proposed developments relating to Ginninderra Creek and Lake Ginninderra. This Committee, however, was able to call representatives from both the Department of the Capital Territory and the National Capital Development Commission to appear before it and question them on the issues involved. We are also able to present this report to the national Parliament as a basis for the Federal Government's and its agencies' future planning for these areas. The Committee has, in recent years, also endeavoured to allow for greater public participation in the planning and development process in Canberra to the extent possible through the Committee's activities and within its terms of reference. 
This inquiry has, in the Committee's view, been an especially important one. It has also allowed the public to have a say on an issue that aroused interest among a large number of people in the Belconnen area in particular. But there is also now wide acceptance that authorities involved in urban planning and development have a responsibility to preserve important elements of the natural environment not only for their own sake but also as an essential element in the future urban environment for a variety of recreational and educational purposes. Canberra is a rapidly growing urban area although there has been a slow down in the growth rate from the very high levels of the recent past. With rapid growth it is more difficult to sustain a long-term perspective on the future needs of the community. This particularly relates to such amenities as open or green spaces. It is essential that the future needs of a highly urbanised society for open or green spaces should be taken into account to the maximum practical extent in urban planning. This is an issue of considerable significance to all those associated with, but particularly those living in, the national capital. In this report the Committee has set down its views on how it believes development along Ginninderra Creek and around Lake Ginninderra should proceed. It recognises that it does not have the specialised expertise to be dogmatic about all future planning needs and priorities. It has framed its recommendations in the context of the views expressed to it in submissions and by members of the community who have an interest in the issues. We have sought to reach reasonable and practical conclusions taking into account, to the extent we can, the future needs of the community. 
The main issue in this inquiry was the importance of recreation space in the urban environment in one of the Territory's newest and fastest growing areas. Belconnen has grown from a population of just over 15,000 in 1970 to about 70,000 in 1979. It is not only the amount of open or green space provided for recreation which has to be considered, but also the quality of that space. The Australian Capital Territory is a dry inland area particularly subject to the vagaries of the elements as dramatically emphasised by the recent bush fires. In this report the Committee has referred to another report by Professor George Seddon on 'An Open Space System For Canberra'. In that report Professor Seddon noted inequities in the distribution of natural resources for recreation within the Australian Capital Territory and made particular reference to the lack of recreation areas in Belconnen. Lake Ginninderra and Ginninderra Creek provide the opportunity for the development of recreation areas in Belconnen which could make a significant difference to that situation. Before moving to the Committee's findings and recommendations I must refer to some reservations which the Committee had about the submissions made to it by the Department of the Capital Territory and the National Capital Development Commission. The Department made a seven page submission which the Committee found inadequate in detail and in its treatment of the issues involved in the inquiry. It can perhaps be best described as a scrappy effort. The National Capital Development Commission provided a submission which dealt mainly with Ginninderra Creek and gave only limited attention to Lake Ginninderra. It was in fact a booklet produced in October 1 978 for other purposes and it had been distributed before this inquiry began. The NCDC did provide further information at the Committee's request. For example, estimates were provided of costs involved in proposed future development or its curtailment around the lake though the Committee did not find these entirely satisfactory. In contrast, the Ginninderra Community Council provided a comprehensive submission to the Committee. The Council, in putting forward its submission, was supported by a petition from over 1,600 residents of the area. The Committee compliments the Council on its submission, and, despite relatively limited resources, its efforts to make it comprehensive and detailed and to involve a substantial number of people from the community in its work. In this report, which I now table, the Committee has approved the variations along Ginninderra Creek proposed by the NCDC. In addition it has suggested the deletion of a further 1 9 housing blocks in Evatt in an effort to slightly extend the area of open space along the creek. This should ensure there is no undue intrusion of housing development on the natural areas of the creek in this area. The Committee has also recommended that the proposed extension of Conley Drive to Copland Drive not proceed until there is a clear demand and need for that extension. 
The Committee was particularly concerned to ensure that Lake Ginninderra be effectively developed as a major recreational asset in the northern area of the Territory. The Committee has sought not to be over-prescriptive in its recommendations for the lake but has aimed at preserving reasonable areas of open space around the lake. It has not tried to usurp the role of the planners but rather to set before them clear guidelines within which they should operate in planning for the development of the lake and its immediate environs. The Committee has found that housing development on the Lake Ginninderra peninsula would be inappropriate and that any future development on the peninsula should be limited to recreational purposes. It has recommended that NCDC provide a range of options for the peninsula and for the community to be consulted before final decisions are made. In relation to the western side of the lake, the Committee has suggested that some of the land proposed for housing be retained as parkland with further provision for recreational facilities. The Committee is also concerned about development occurring close to the foreshores in certain areas. However, the Committee does not propose what Professor Seddon referred to as the Cordon Sanitaire for that area. There is scope for what is referred to as hard edge development at certain points around the lake. A further recommendation proposes an investigation into the establishment of a wildlife refuge, preferably in the north eastern shallows. The Committee has also recommended that the former hospital site be retained for recreational or institutional purposes. 
One dissent by four members of the Committee relates to development along Ginninderra Creek in Latham. The Committee had previously approved the development of sections 102, 103 and 104 in Latham. The Committee has recommended that the gazettal of sections 102, 103 and 104 stand. However, the dissenting report recommends that the development of those sections for medium density housing should not proceed. The other dissent concerns the peninsula of Lake Ginninderra. Two members have recommended that more information be provided on a wider range of possible uses for the development of the peninsula. 
The Committee in its report has tried to adopt a reasonable and balanced approach to the development of residential accommodation and the provision of recreational areas and facilities for the residents of Belconnen and the Territory. It is recognised that the community's needs and wishes even in the near future may differ from those of today. The Committee is conscious of the lack of natural recreational areas in Belconnen when compared with other parts of Canberra, and its recommendations are intended to assist in overcoming this imbalance. Ginninderra Creek and Lake Ginninderra should be a valuable recreational, educational, social and historical resource for the residents of that area, but also for residents of the whole Territory. The Committee considers that its recommendations make suitable provision for the recreational requirements of residents now and, we hope, in the future. 
As a signatory of the dissenting report, I would like to say how disappointed I was that the majority of the Committee did not agree that sections 102, 103 and 104 should be withdrawn for development. We did ask for a response from the community and we received an excellent response. One of the strongest responses was against the development of these three blocks. Whilst the Committee made concessions to community views on every other area, on precisely that area, where community views were the strongest, the Committee made no concession, and that gave rise to the dissenting report. 
In directing my question to the Minister representing the Attorney-General, I refer to action currently being taken concerning the misuse of solicitors' trust funds by legal practitioners in New South Wales. I ask the Minister: Can he give an assurance that solicitors' trust funds in the Australian Capital Territory are being administered and maintained according to the law? Is he satisfied that the present arrangements for the auditing of solicitors' trust funds in the Australian Capital Territory are adequate to protect the public interest? Is he aware that solicitors in the Australian Capital Territory are permitted to nominate their own auditors? In view of the New South Wales experience, will he consider reviewing the existing arrangements so that auditors of solicitors' trust funds in the Australian Capital Territory are made accountable to the public rather than to the Law Society, as is the case in New South Wales? 
As a more recent member of the Expenditure Committee, I should like to add my full support to the recommendations contained in the report and to make some brief comments on its implications. The broad object of the report is to analyse the relationship of the Parliament and public expenditure and to suggest ways and means of giving some reality to the myth that in effect Parliament does exercise significant influence over public expenditure. As the  Chairman  has pointed out, I do not think that anyone seriously believes the long-standing myth that Parliament in any way controls public expenditure. If we moderate our language and talk about influencing rather than controlling budgetary expenditure, the Committee has found that the influence of the Parliament is quite limited. 
I regard this report as a very tentative step along the road to reining in the more formidable influence of the partnership of the Public Service bureaucracy and the Executive in its domination of the Parliament. The recommendations certainly would allow the Parliament an earlier look at the Budget plans if forward estimates were made available for debate during the autumn session. Whilst this is important in the present situation, it would still mean that by the time the Budget was passed at the end of the spring session, the Budget would already have been largely committed and spent to the extent of fivetwelfths of the total. This is legitimised by the Supply Bills, which are virtually passed in the dark by the Parliament in the latter days of the autumn sitting. The Supply Bills are passed without any real knowledge of the Government's intentions or the general direction in which it is heading for the following Budget year. We acknowledge the reality that the Executive, and not the Parliament, governs, but the Executive must operate within the constitutional framework of the Parliament. It must not be allowed to surrender its sovereignty to the domination and effective control of the Public Service bureaucracy. Having taken this tentative step along the way to more effective scrutiny, I hope that the response to the report will be such that the Parliament, and this House particularly, will encourage the Expenditure Committee to investigate further and inquire into the more wide-ranging and radical changes in the scrutiny of public expenditure and, more particularly, into possible changes in the timing of the Budget. 
The Committee's terms of reference did not cover an important question raised late in the inquiry regarding passing a single Budget before the end of the financial year, which would remove the necessity of the time-consuming and ritualistic process of passing the Supply Bills in the autumn session. The approval of a single budget before the commencement of the year of expenditure is the normal procedure throughout the commercial business world. For a government that has such admiration for the practices and principles of private enterprise, the adoption of a similar procedure should have some attraction. Many modern Western economies, including our most important trading partner, Japan, and several western European countries, have adopted single Budgets. One of the main objections to the single Budget being passed before the financial year commences is that the frantic period of putting the Budget together in June and July would have to take place in the December-January period, which would cause undue interference to the summer pastimes of both politicians and senior bureaucrats. This objection pre-supposes that we are permanently wedded to the idea of the financial year beginning and ending midway through the calendar year. We can overcome this by budgeting for the calendar year rather than for the existing financial year. 
Why do we have to operate on two different time scales? Why cannot our financial year correspond with the calendar year? If we took the plunge and made this change, the Budget could be prepared and debated precisely on the same time scale as it is now. Forward estimates could be prepared within the same time scale, but the spending of the Budget, which we pass in the spring, would not begin until 1 January the following year. All that is required for the initial change is that the forward estimates be prepared for 18 months rather than for 12 months, that is to say, from 1 July 1979 to 31 December 1980. 
After the initial change, we could revert to a 12- months Budget passed before the year begin. Although this means a radical change from a well-entrenched precedent, I suggest that, if the proposal was approached rationally,' it could be achieved with a minimum of dislocation. However, as with most changes, I have no doubt that those powerful arms of the bureaucracy, Treasury and Finance, are capable of conjuring up many objections to such a proposal. Under the present arrangements, it is suggested that up to 80 per cent of the Budget is determined by previous decisions such as the payments to the States, salaries of public servants, building projects under way, and commitments to established programs made well before the Budget is debated. In effect, budget-making becomes a matter of fiddling on the margin of Government expenditure. We acknowledge the reality of the need for secrecy and confidentiality in regard to the revenue side of the Budget, but there is no real reason why the expenditure plans of the Government cannot become available to the Parliament for debate in the August-November Budget session, before the actual expenditure commences in January of the following year. A single Budget does not preclude the need for additional or supplementary estimates, and provision is made for these in those countries where the single budget is in force. Additionally, there is a substantial saving of the resources of the bureaucracy by disposing altogether of the necessity for the Supply Bills. 
I enjoyed my brief association with the Committee in working on this report. May I express the hope that, having taken the first step to a closer scrutiny of public expenditure, a further opportunity for looking at this most important aspect of the role of the Parliament can be pursued to the point where it might look seriously at the implications of a single Budget based on the calendar year, to be debated and passed in this Parliament before the actual expenditure process commences. Only in that way can the Parliament be seen to be exercising reasonable scrutiny of the Budget. 
-On behalf of the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory I present the Committee's report entitled 'Planning in the Australian Capital TerritoryProcedures, Processes and Community Involvement', together with the transcript of evidence and extracts from the minutes of proceedings of the Committee. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
by leave- In looking at the adequacy and public acceptability of planning procedures in the Australian Capital Territory the Committee concluded that the development and planning process in Canberra over the past two decades has generally met the needs of the national capital and seat of government functions. However, in view of the existence of a wellestablished community in Canberra, the Committee saw a growing need for the citizens of Canberra to be able to contribute more directly and effectively to the planning of their city and to be able to appeal against planning decisions which they consider adversely affect them. 
The Committee heard evidence of many breaches of lease purpose clauses in Canberra and an apparent reluctance on the part of the Department of the Capital Territory to enforce these lease provisions. The Committee concluded that lease purpose clauses should be enforced and has recommended that substantial fines be imposed for breaches, with continued failure to comply, leading to the termination of the lease. The Committee also feels that the procedure for applying to vary lease purpose clauses should be modified. Finally, there should be a right of appeal by both applicants and third parties against decisions made on these applications. 
It is a cause for some concern that the Commonwealth is not at present subject to development control under the City Area Leases Ordinance. The Committee has therefore recommended that government departments and instrumentalities be obliged to conform with statutory planning provisions and lease purpose clauses. 
On the question of public participation the Committee believes that the local community can have a greater role in planning and development without affecting the national interest in Canberra, as the capital and seat of government. There should be much more scope than at present for those affected individuals, groups, organisations and institutions to put forward their views on land use intentions and to participate from the earliest practical stage of the planning process. The community should have the opportunity to have a part in establishing the goals that subsequent planning policies are designed to achieve. 
The Committee believes that planning and development control should remain centrally coordinated and that the unified and generally consistent approach to planning, under a single statutory authority, should be retained. However, the planning system should be more accessible to the citizen. 
To facilitate participation in planning the Committee has proposed a system of structure and development plans, with statutory force, and has set out in its report the steps for the preparation of these plans. The structure plan would be a series of statements of overall planning policy and provide a framework within which detailed development proposals are to be formulated. The development plans would be the official land-use plans for the Australian Capital Territory and would replace the existing plan of lay-out of the city of Canberra. The steps for the preparation of the plan would ensure community participation from the earliest stages and would preserve the Parliament's role as guardian of national capital aspects and the Burley Griffin plan. 
The Committee has also proposed a land use tribunal to hear appeals against decisions of the National Capital Development Commission and the Department of the Capital Territory in relation to permits for proposed works and applications for lease purpose clause changes or permits to carry on a profession, trade or occupation on a residential lease. The tribunal should not hear prosecutions for breach of lease purpose clauses. These should be dealt with by the courts. 
As a result of its inquiry and following the recent referendum in the Territory on constitutional arrangements, the Committee believes there is a need for community organisations which can both represent the local community and act as a point of contact for planners and other government agencies. The Committee has therefore recommended that community councils be established on a voluntary basis. 
The Committee believes that the proposed planning system will require examination of the environmental impact of urban development at a much earlier stage and with a wider perspective than generally occurs at present under the existing impact of proposals legislation. However, the Committee has said that there should be memorandums of understanding between the Minister for the Capital Territory and the Minister for Science and the Environment to ensure that the system of structure and development plans and the 
Environmental Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act work in a comprehensive and complementary manner. 
There has been a joint committee on the Australian Capital Territory in each Parliament since it was first appointed in 1957. The role of the Committee has evolved over this period with the growth and changing nature of Canberra itself. The Committee has at times worked as a quasiappeal body, hearing objections to particular planning proposals, because of our role in relation to the plan of lay-out of the city and Burley Griffin's concept for Canberra. It is not entirely appropriate that a committee representing the national interest and Parliament should become involved in acrimonious disputes at the neighbourhood level simply because of the absence of any other mechanisms for the proper examination of grievances. The proposals in this report for the preparation of plans and for an appeal tribunal should assist in meeting this shortcoming in the system of government and administration in the Australian Capital Territory. 
In preparing its proposals the Committee has tried to draw on the lessons of the past. At the same time we have necessarily had to try to formulate planning procedures that will overcome the difficulties that have emerged with Canberra's growth, the community's needs and the problems, aspirations and values of the capital and of the community in the future. We have not sought to be dogmatic, but rather to be as precise as we have felt each particular issue either permitted or required. The Committee has suggested adjustments to the existing planning system which we believe conserve its important strengths, remove or limit its shortcomings and make it more responsive to the needs and wishes of the community. The Committee has sought to propose a planning system which is both practical and responsive and which will accommodate future changes in community needs and wishes at the same time as it meets the inevitable demands of a national capital and a growing urban complex. 
I would like to thank all those who have contributed to this inquiry. First of all, I would like to thank my fellow members of the Committee, the specialist advisers  Dr Alan  Fogg of the University of Queensland and  Mr Bob  Graham, the Hobart City Planner, and all those who gave evidence to the Committee at public hearings and in consultations. I would also like to thank Phil Bergin, Allan Kelly, Michele Purcell and Lyn Coutman of the Committee secretariat and Don Nairn and Terry Watson who worked on the secretariat for much of this inquiry. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Administrative Services. I refer to the appointment of  Sir Colin  Woods as the first Commissioner of the new Federal Police Force. Does the Government consider that there are no senior officers within all the various Australian and State police forces with the necessary knowledge, experience and competence to head the new force? Is the Minister concerned that despite  Sir Colin  's eminent career in the United Kingdom he has never been to Australia, is not familiar with Australian conditions or police problems in Australia, and has had no experience of working within the delicate political framework of a State-Federal political system which we have in Australia? Is not this appointment a gross insult to police officers in Australia and to the Australian community? Does not the appointment represent a return to colonial attitudes which should belong to a past age? 
-On behalf of the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory I present the Committee's report on proposals for the 67th series of variations of the plan of lay-out of the City of Canberra and its environs, together with copies of extracts of the minutes of proceedings. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
by leave- This report, which is the third report of the Committee to be tabled in this period of sittings, deals with the 67th series of variations to the plan of lay-out of the national capital. There are thirteen proposed variations in this series and the Committee has approved of ten, approved parts of another two, and suggested that another be regazetted. The total cost involved in these variations is around $lm. This series of variations generated considerable public interest concerning proposed roads in Yarralumla. The only submissions and objections received by the Committee on this series of proposed variations in fact related to developments in Yarralumla. During the inquiry some 20 witnesses representing 14 organisations appeared before the Committee at public hearings. One of the witnesses to appear before the Committee was the  Chairman  of the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly's Committee on Lands, Planning and Environment. The report of that Committee on the proposed variations was incorporated in the transcript of evidence. The Committee intends to follow this procedure in future consideration of variations. 
The proposed variations involved many areas of Canberra. There were proposals for cycle paths in Phillip, Kaleen and Giralang which will be parts of the Canberra cycleway system. There are also improvements to the Pine Island recreation area. The present area has been subject to heavy use at peak periods and the proposals in this series of variations will provide picnic and other facilities as well as additional car parking. There are also variations aimed at improving road safety within the Australian Capital Territory. One proposal involves improving the road alignment and geometry of the intersection of Canberra Avenue, Manuka Circle and Captain Cook Crescent, which has been the site of many accidents. Another involves the elimination of a dangerous curve at the intersection of Whyalla Street and Canberra Avenue in Fyshwick. 
The proposal for Yarralumla was for the construction of Stage I of a tourist road which will eventually link the Cotter Road with Weston Park and roads along the southern shores of Lake Burley Griffin. The completion of Stage 1 would provide access to the old Canberra brickworks which is now being redeveloped by private enterprise as a major tourist and historical centre. There was also a proposal for a link road to connect the tourist road to the existing residential street system. Yarralumla is a suburb which has been undergoing significant change. The population has been declining while the number of visitors travelling through residential streets has been increasing. With the redevelopment of the brickworks, the number of visitors is likely to increase, particularly as a number of these visitors might continue on to visit Weston Park or other nearby recreational areas. To preserve the residential amenity of the suburb the Committee has recommended that the second stage of the tourist road be included in the next series of variations. Such a recommendation is likely to affect a number of organisations, particularly the Royal Canberra Golf Club and the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation Division of Forest Research. 
The Committee recognises the importance of the Royal Canberra Golf Club as a local club and as a national and international sporting venue. The Committee has therefore suggested measures which could allow expansion of the club into the Yarralumla nursery and across Dunrossil Drive into the area known as Lee's Paddock. The Committee has supported the view of the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly that if Lee's Paddock were to be given to the golf club then other comparable agistment in the immediate area should be made available for horse owners. The Committee has recommended that proposals on these matters, plus details of any problems likely to be encountered by the CSIRO, be presented at the hearings on Stage 2 of the tourist road. The Committee has also sought to protect the local residents from much of the tourist and visitor traffic by ensuring that such traffic goes around rather than through the residential streets. The tourist road, when completed, would provide direct access from Cotter Road to Weston Park on a route which avoids the residential part of Yarralumla. 
The Committee does not approve of the proposal for the link road at this time. Such a road would provide an easy opportunity for commuters to use the residential streets. The Committee considered proposals for a cul-de-sac as an alternative, but considered that the Committee should be provided with a detailed road lay-out for the proposed residential development around the brickworks. In respect of the other variations, the Committee has recommended that Variation 12 be regazetted since there was a mistake in the Gazettal Notice. It has also recommended that part 3 of Variation 8 dealing with the 'address frontage' for the Hellenic Club in Woden not be approved until the Committee is provided with more details on the proposal, particularly as to the necessity for the work. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice, on 29 March1979: 
) Are the existing water storages in the Australian Capital Territory sufficient to meet the current water requirements of the ACT without the use of water from the Googong Dam. 
Will the cost of water from the Googong Dam be passed on to the ACT ratepayer; if so, what will be the increase in water rates in the ACT for 1979-80 as a result of the connection to Googong Dam. 
What was the total cost of the Googong Dam, including construction of the (a) pumping station, (b) water treatment works and (c) pipeline to the ACT. 
asked the Minister for Industrial Relations, upon notice, on15 November1978: 
) Did he state in an undated foreword to a phamphlet issued by his Department entitled  'Industrial Relations, A policy for the People'  that all of the Government's industrial relations policies have been developed in a spirit of consultation to promote understanding and consensus in the interests of employers, employees and the community. 
If so, with what employer and employee interests was each policy developed. 
What are the steps that the Government took to develop policies in a spirit of consultation. 
On what occasion did the Government, pursuant to its election policy on consultation with employee interest, actually invite comment from employee organisations on proposals under consideration before arriving at decisions affecting these groups. 
Were the Commonwealth Employees (Employment Provisions) Act, the Public Service Arbitration Amendment Act and the Parliamentary Retiring Allowances Amendment Act examples of consultation to promote understanding and consensus in the interests of employers, employees and the community. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 8 March 1979: 
1 ) Is the Civic, A.C.T., telephone exchange an essential link to Black Mountain telecommunications tower for Canberra 's telex services. 
Is it a fact that, while the security of the tower is very satisfactory, for the Civic exchange physical security is minimal. 
What other telephone exchanges provide vital links to the Black Mountain tower. 
Is he satisfied with the security of these exchanges. 
asked the Minister for Finance, upon notice, on 8 March 1979: 
1 ) With regard to the distribution of surplus funds to contributors of the Australian Public Service Superannuation Fund following the changeover to the new fund on 1 July 1 976, is it a fact that the basic contributions allocated to contributors was less than actual contributions paid by them into the Fund; if so, why. 
How was the surplus, which would have accrued from interest earnings on contributors' funds, dealt with to ensure that all contributions received equitable treatment. 
I am very pleased to have the opportunity to speak about the Budget tonight because I was rather appalled today when the honourable member for Canberra  (Mr Haslem)  asked a Dorothy Dixer of the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Ellicott).  The honourable member said what wonderful things the Minister was going to do for Canberra and then, pointing the finger across to the Opposition, said that we- I think he was pointing at me personally- were responsible for undermining consumer confidence in Canberra. It is the height of audacity to say we undermined consumer confidence in Canberra. This Government has presided over the greatest bashing of a particular community. It has presided over the complete demoralisation of the Public Service, the greatest escalation of unemployment in any part of Australia, and a record number of liquidations and bankruptcies in the small business world. It has presided over the gutting of the building industry, cutting it in half. The building force is now down to 50 per cent of what it was. It has sold off government enterprises, the property of the people of Canberra- the brickworks, the government sawmill. Above all, it has brought down a record low vote for the National Capital 
Development Commission for new capital works. A mere $ 13.7m has been allocated for new capital works in the 1979-80 Budget year. This is an all time low by a long way in the whole history ofthe NCDC. 
The figures are there. It is no good denying it. 
Certainly. I do not have to ask the Minister that question. The answer is in the Budget Papers. The figure mentioned in the Budget Papers for new capital works this year is $ 13.7m. It is an appalling performance. Then the Government has the hide to point the finger at the Opposition and say that we are undermining consumer confidence. The Government has undermined my confidence. It has undermined not only the confidence of the consumers but also the confidence of the business people, the building industry and, of course, the unemployed. It has done nothing for the unemployed. It has done nothing in this Budget to hold out any hope for them. 
The honourable member for Canberra has panicked. I do not blame him. If I were in his position I would panic too. He has pressed the panic button, as has the Government senator representing the Australian Capital Territory in the other place. They have both panicked and of course they have put the pressure on the Minister. The Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Ellicott)  has panicked too. He is now trying to pull some goodies out of the hat. He pulled some real beauties out of the hat today about things that are going to happen in the bright rosy future for Canberra. He is talking about casinoscasinos that he would have nothing to do with a couple of years ago and which the Government rejected. He is talking about a tourist centre for which he had available, I think, $3. 6m in the Budget last year, which he let go by default because he could not make up his mind where the tourist centre was to be built. He is now talking about a convention centre. He is sitting back and waiting for private enterprise to come in and build all these wonderful things and solve all our problems. These are very commendable projects. I support them. I support the proposals for the casino, the tourist centre and the convention centre. They are wonderful things, but we all know that if they happen at all they will not happen for two or three years and in the meantime many more people in Canberra will go out of business, particularly in the building industry. 
There were a few pluses in the Budget. I give credit to the Minister for the money that has been made available to build a new library in Belconnen and an in-door sporting pavilion- a very limited facility- at the Bruce Stadium and for the provision of a little more money for Commissioner for Housing loans. I understand that the Commissioner will be able to lend to another 160-odd people. There are 750 names on the waiting list, so in 12 months time instead of having 750 names on the waiting list we will have about only 600. No money at all is provided for government housing, of course. There is no need for it because there is no growth here. Against those few pluses, which I concede are good, although not enough, we have this tremendous cutback in the NCDC budget. For a number of years it was spending over $200m. I know that it cannot keep on doing that but to cut funding for new capital works back to $ 13.7m in one year is inexcusable. The Minister says: 'We do not want any more land, we do not want any more houses; there is no growth'. I agree with that; there is no argument about it. But there are plenty of capital works programs which the Minister could have got underway and I believe should be got underway in the NCDC budget. The national museum has been talked about for years. We have a site for it. We do not have to wait for private enterprise to make a decision about building a national museum. All the Minister had to do was to convince the Cabinet that we wanted some funds injected into Canberra, not for the people of Canberra but for national projects. 
Of course, a great deal of the NCDC budget over the years has been devoted to national capital projects. They are not domestic projects at all. The High Court building and the National Gallery are not there to serve the local people; they are national capital projects. I think it is a very appropriate time for the Government to start some more national capital projects such as the construction of the national museum. The new coast road has been talked about for years. There is not a penny to get that underway. The convention centre could have been built by the Government. It did not have to wait another three years for private enterprise to come in with all sorts of projects. We could have had a full indoor recreation centre. It has been talked about for years. Instead of that we are to have a pavilion where people can play tennis or cricket or something. 
Against a few pluses we have a very imposing list of minuses and a deplorable record by a government in Canberra, the worst in history and one which the Canberra people will remember for a long time. It is not only the Minister for the Capital Territory who has let the Territory down. I do not believe that our present Minister is a Canberra basher at heart. I think he has a great regard for Canberra, but the fact is that he was not able to overcome the Canberra-bashing syndrome of the present Government. It has a very strong anti-Canberra lobby and he was not able to overcome it and get some funds to put Canberra on its feet. He has presided over a devastating demoralisation of Canberra. He is not the only one at whom we can point the finger. 
The other Minister who is very culpable in relation to Canberra is of course the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt).  There has been some very bad administration, and some very bad decisions have been made which have caused tremendous difficulty in the health services in Canberra. The opening of the Calvary Hospital, without adequate funding, has been disastrous. That hospital was allowed to open only on the basis of taking money and resources from two existing hospitals. This has had a very demoralising and devastating effect on the whole of our health services. Of course, the Minister will say that we are spending so much and have spent so much on health, that Canberra is well off and all that sort of nonsense. There are spare resources only because Canberra has stopped growing. It has come to a standstill; therefore there is a surplus of resources. It is not due to bad planning; it is due to bad government. 
The performance of the Minister for Health has been deplorable. In Canberra we have unused resources. We have clients waiting to use those resources but we cannot use them because of staff ceilings. We have a hostel at Watson in which there are 20 vacant beds and we are not allowed to put on the staff, giving jobs to the unemployed nurses in Canberra, to service those beds. We have clients willing to pay for that service and to go into those beds. Do honourable members know where they are? They are in New South Wales. They are not in Canberra at all. They are sent away from their relatives and friends. 
They are sent to places such as Kenmore, yes. The Capital Territory Health Commission is paying $800,000 a year for services to Australian Capital Territory residents who are in various medical institutions in New South Wales. At the same time we have empty beds in the hostels in Canberra. There is no excuse for that. This is one of the distortions which come about from this crazy pattern of across-the-board staff ceilings which does not give due consideration to the resources that are being wasted. I have written to the Minister about this. He has not even responded yet. Those beds are sitting there empty. Unemployed nurses are waiting to do the job. Clients are ready to go into the beds, but they are in New South Wales and we are paying out a lot of money while our resources are wasted here. 
I was rather surprised at the Minister's making a little speech recently saying that he wanted Canberra to be more like any other town in New South Wales. I do not quite know what he meant. I do not know whether it is a cult of mediocrity. Perhaps he does not want to acknowledge that there should be any great advantage in a wellplanned city, but believes that Canberra should be downgraded to the level of any other town or city in New South Wales. I do not think that he really believes that. I do not think any honourable members opposite would believe that. I think we all acknowledge that Canberra is a government town. There is no doubt about that. I do not think anybody should pretend that it will be anything but a government town. Certainly, we want private enterprise, and as much as we can get; but I think that is complementary to the growth of government and the growth of Canberra in an orderly fashion rather than in the fits and starts that we have had in recent years. Not only has it stopped growing in the last few years but also there is a possibility of negative population growth with people moving out because of the lack of employment prospects in Canberra. I think that it is a nonsense to say that Canberra should be more like other cities. I do not think that private enterprise is going to rush into Canberra if there is no prospect that it will have some growth as a government town. I would net support the idea of a rapid growth in the Public Service, but there should be some prospect of growth. Public servants should have some prospect of normal promotion and increased opportunity. I am sure that all this will come about when there is a change of government. 
We have seen this Government introduce all sorts of repressive legislation against the public servants and their unions in Canberra and this has further demoralised them. There was a deplorable attack a couple of weeks ago by a member of the Government on people being invalided out of the Public Service and on the government medical officers. He said that there was a racket because people were being invalided out of the Public Service. What is he saying? Is he saying that the Commonwealth medical officers are corrupt and that they are getting a back-hander or that the people who are getting out are obtaining false medical records? Under the protection of the House he makes these deplorable accusations against people who have served this country and the Public Service well for many years. What he does not realise, of course, is that many of these people are in poor health precisely because of the unreal staff ceilings that have been imposed on departments and because of overwork in various sections of the Public Service. The health of these people has deteriorated physically and mentally to the stage where they have to be invalided out. Is this member saying that all these people are telling lies or that they are . bribing a medical officer to get out? If so, why does he not get up and say that instead of casting aspersions on people who have served this country well? 
It is no wonder that the honourable member for Canberra is panicking. If I were in his position I would be panicking too. He is so concerned about it that he has given up very profitable businesses so that he can concentrate on retaining the electorate. I think that was a very wise move. He did not sell them, of course; he is leasing them in case he might need them later and I think that this too is a wise move. 
He is. He has a very difficult job to survive against the Government's onslaught on Canberra. The Government has alienated every section of the community but it is asking him to do the impossible. 
A government committee is considering the transfer to Tasmania of the Division of Forest Research in the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation. I have not heard of a more ridiculous proposal in all my life. The Government has done some crazy things but this is about the craziest. Here is a very expert professional research body which is world renowned and leads the world in many aspects of forest research, particularly in bushfire prevention and control and genetic breeding of new strains of softwoods for Australia. Nearly all of this division's research projects are based in Canberra. They are carried out in the Australian Capital Territory forests. Forest research projects take many years to bear fruit and to be completed, but here is the Government talking about transferring to Tasmania all of the 200 people in this Division. I wonder why it wants to send them to Tasmania, of all places. Not one of these officers wants to go to Tasmania. Does the Government want to close the whole place down? Why not move the Parliament to Tasmania and be done with it or move it overseas? 
I love it but the forest research people do not love it. Their work is here, their families are here and their children are at school here. There is no way that those people will want to go to Tasmania. 
Small business, of course, is in a terrible mess. There has been a record number of bankruptcies and people going into liquidation. I have business people coming into my office day after day. I have had dozens and dozens of them come in. Some are in critical circumstances indeed. I see people losing their homes and life savings and having no prospects at all because of the Canberra-bashing that has gone on and the way in which the growth rate has virtually stopped. Some of these people have been successful in business for many years. They are not amateurs who do not know what they are doing. They are proven business people, and yet they have run into a patch through which they cannot survive. We hear promises about what might happen in two or three years time- it is a bit like the new and permanent Parliament House- but many more of these people will be out of business before then. Many of the builders will be out of business and seeking sustenance further afield or some other way of maintaining their situation. But the damage will have been done. 
The tragedy of this Budget is that the Minister for the Capital Territory did not realise the damage that was being done until too late. All those things that could have been done in the Budget just were not done. Canberra got an extremely bad deal indeed, even in some of the existing industries. Canberra has its own egg industry here, Parkwood Eggs Pty Ltd, a very fine production unit which set out to supply eggs for Canberra and it was doing this. What happened? The Victorian Egg Board came in and started cutting prices. A Board, set up to stabilise the marketing of eggs, comes into the Australian Capital Territory and starts undermining our own industry by selling eggs at a loss or at a much lower price than the price in Victoria. In other words, that Board is dumping on the Canberra market, eggs which normally would have been exported. This has been going on for a couple of years and the 
Minister has done nothing effective about it. He has not stopped it. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair),  who has some responsibility in the Australian Agricultural Council, has done nothing about it. It has been allowed to go on. This industry represents the jobs of 60 or 70 people in Canberra. If this practice is allowed to continue these people will not be able to carry on and there will then be a few more added to the unemployment list. So, it is no wonder that the honourable member for Canberra is panicking. 
I am pleased to see that the Minister has come to life at last and has started to talk about the wonderful things that are going to happen in Canberra, but I am afraid that he has left the run a bit late. The damage has been done and has cut very deeply into the people of Canberra. They will not forget about it tomorrow or next month or next year and the honourable member for Canberra will have to bear the brunt of what this Government has done to Canberra. I have a lot of sympathy for him. He has tried but he has a hopeless task in the face of the Canberra-bashing that has been allowed to go on. I do not believe the Minister to be a Canberra-basher at heart but I am afraid we must admit that he has been ineffective in resisting the Canbeira-bashing that has gone on since this Government came to office. I am afraid we are going to feel the effects of that for many years to come. It is no good trying to pull something out of the hat at short notice. It just will not succeed. It will take several years for any project to get under way and in the meantime a lot more people will go to the wall. There were projects that the Minister could have got under way very quickly, projects which would not have taken two or three years to mature. Plans are already in existence for a lot of those projects. He had only to extract the money from the Treasurer, but the Treasurer and the Government were very tight-fisted in relation to Canberra. Unfortunately, the Minister failed to break through that Canberra-bashing syndrome and the people of Canberra have been asked to carry the can. I am sure the seed has been sown and the honourable member for Canberra is - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Martyr)  adjourned. 
I wish to draw the attention of the House to a very disturbing complaint which I received yesterday from a constituent who has cause to move in and out of Parliament House in the course of his duties. It concerned the supplying of information by the staff of Parliament House to the Commonwealth Police. I understand that the information was supplied at the request of a retailer in Canberra in connection with a commercial transaction. On the basis of the information supplied by parliamentary staff to the Commonwealth Police, and passed on to the retailer, my constituent was phoned at his work place and certain allegations were made against him by the retailer concerning an alleged transaction. 
In the event, the information supplied by the parliamentary staff was incorrect; my constituent was not involved in the alleged transaction at all, and very clearly it was a case of mistaken identity based on inaccurate information. I am concerned at the fact that inaccurate information was given, but what concerns me more is that any information at all was supplied. It raises the question whether it is appropriate or legitimate that holders of parliamentary identity passes should be in the position that the numbers of their identity passes and their names can be disclosed to commercial interests for the purpose of identification. I have very strong views that such information should be used only within the Parliament for identification purposes concerned with security within Parliament House and in no circumstances should it be passed on to outside sources to be used for commercial or any other purposes. 
I do not attach any blame to the staff concerned if it has not been made very clear to all staff members what their obligations and responsibilities are in relation to disclosing such information. Similarly, with the Commonwealth Police, there should be a very clear understanding of the boundaries between legitimate sources of information and the privacy of the individual, as it concerns those people who are either employed in the House or whose occupation requires them to be issued with identity passes to give them access to Parliament House. I hope that the  Speaker  or the Minister for Administrative Services  (Mr John McLeay)  will clarify this matter so that there is no question of the invasion of privacy of people who work in Parliament House by outside interests being given information which discloses their identity and identity pass numbers. I have referred this matter to the  Speaker  and I seek his early advice as to what action will be taken to prevent any recurrence of what I believe to be a very undesirable practice which, in the case of my constituent, caused him great embarrassment and distress. 
Has the Minister for Foreign Affairs read the report of the Australian Council for Overseas Aid which alleges misuse of Australian aid sent to East Timor? What action is the Government taking to ensure that future aid from Australia to East Timor is not misused? Will the Minister insist on Australian Red Cross or government officials being admitted to East Timor to observe the distribution of our aid so that the Australian Parliament and the people of Australia can be kept informed of what happens to our aid for East Timor? Is the Minister aware that Indonesia is insisting that all material aid to East Timor should be delivered to Sourabaya or Jakarta so that the aid can be seen to come from Indonesia rather than from outside sources? Does the Government intend to go along with this deception? 
I ask the Minister for Health: Has the Austraiian Council on Hospital Standards refused to accredit the Woden Valley Hospital, which is situated in the electorate of the honourable member for Canberra? Was this because of inadequate arrangements for delineation of medical privileges of visiting medical staff and the inadequate provision for the review of professional standards? Does this mean that private patients are being treated in this hospital by doctors not necessarily competent for the work that they perform? 
Is the Minister for Health aware of the view of the Capital Territory Health Commission that a private orthopaedic specialist is entitled to charge $ 104 for setting a broken limb when in fact the limb was set by a resident medical officer whose salary is paid by the Government? Does he agree that the service is being paid for twice- the salaried officer is paid for setting the limb and the specialist is paid for not setting it? Does he approve of the facilities of public hospitals being made available free of charge so that private specialists can conduct clinics and charge patients for services which they do not carry out? Finally, will the Minister consider a proposal that part of the fee which the private specialist receives for work which he has not done should be paid to the hospital for the work which its staff performs? 
I want to support the amendment moved by my colleague the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding).  Even though we are accustomed to this Government introducing anti-worker legislation, anti-public servant legislation and antiCanberra legislation, this is the most contemptible legislation I have seen it introduce. The Government has excelled itself. We are accustomed to the Government showing contempt for other people's employees, but now it is showing contempt for its own employees. The Government is not prepared to bring in a piece of legislation which rectifies what the Government has admitted to be a great anomaly in the compensation payments. I suggest that many Government members agree that this is a contemptible piece of legislation, otherwise they would be defending this legislation. But they are sitting there not saying a word. 
It is good that the honourable member for Canberra  (Mr Haslem)  is here. I hope he will criticise this legislation because it is definitely discriminating against quite a large section of his electorate. 
It is scandalous. The honourable member for Canberra and I probably have more public servants in our electorates than other honourable members have, but over the last couple of years we have had representations from people complaining about the low level of compensation payable to Commonwealth employees. We have been given letters from various Ministers saying that they recognise there is an anomaly and that they are going to correct it. In this legislation they have completely reneged on that commitment. The people who are in receipt of compensation payments have been, or will be greatly disappointed because they have had a reasonable expectation that the level of compensation would be restored to something in line with the level under the private employee legislation. They have been greatly disappointed, as I am. We have been assuring them that the matter would be put right in the Budget. Here we have it. It is a confidence trick, as my colleague has pointed out. Despite an increase in the cost of living of over 30 per cent, we get a mere 1 2 per cent increase in compensation payments. 
Let me spell out the legislation as it relates to the Australian Capital Territory. I take the case of a building worker employed by a private contractor or a building worker employed in the Department of Housing and Construction. Under the new legislation the payment for a worker who is incapacitated is to be increased from $80 a week to $90 a week. Under the Australian Capital Territory ordinance which controls the private sector, that worker would receive $94.33 a week and this payment is subject to quarterly indexation. There is to be another increase in that payment in the next few days and another one at the end of the year. So the Australian Capital Territory private employee will be receiving around $100 a week but the Commonwealth employee will be receiving only $90 a week. How do we justify these anomalies? The weekly payment for a wife of an incapacitated worker is being increased from $21 to $23.60. Under the Australian Capital Territory ordinance it is $24.82. Again, the Commonwealth payment is behind. We are increasing the weekly payment for each child from $10 to $11.25. Under the Australian Capital Territory ordinance, the weekly payment is $ 1 1 .5 8. 
Where is the justice in these payments? In every case the Commonwealth employee is being greatly discriminated against. There is no question of that. The Commonwealth legislation is particularly disgusting as it applies to the death of a breadwinner. The compensation for the death of a breadwinner is $25,000 and is being increased to $28,000. In the case of a private employee, the spouse would receive $33,000. The death of a private employee is worth $5,000 more than the death of a Commonwealth employee. How in justice can we justify these anomalies? 
An amount of $28,000 is paid on the death of a Commonwealth employee. Let me remind honourable members that that is equivalent to about one year's salary for a back bench member in this House. A back bench member in this House receives $28,000 a year and that is what we value the total life of a Commonwealth employee to be. Where is the justice? I had hoped that some members on the Government side would have some sense of justice. Some honourable members on that side have, and have demonstrated it. I am disappointed in the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman),  who has shown great compassion for people in East Timor, whom I have been interested in. I wonder what he thinks of this legislation? If he thinks that it is socially just, why does he not come into the House and defend it? I am sure that he does not think it socially just but is ashamed of it and remains out. The same story applies to funeral expenses. It is to be increased from $650 to $730 but in the case of a private employee it would be $744. How can we justify this? 
After three years of waiting, with all these promises that the anomalies were going to be put right, we get this gross discrimination against Commonwealth employees. Of course, when we look to the future, as my colleague, the honourable member for Grey  (Mr Wallis),  pointed out, there is no guarantee that in three years time the situation will be any better. Commonwealth employees are now worse off than they were three years ago. There is no assurance that the situation will be better in another three years. There is no commitment to regular adjustments as there is under the Australian Capital Territory ordinance. The Australian Capital Territory ordinance provides for quarterly adjustments. Even though the incapacity payment is very low overall and is below the minimum wage, at least it gives employees a chance not to slip further behind, but to keep up with the very low level of subsistence that they are receiving. Under the Commonwealth legislation they are slipping further and further behind. It is a disgusting situation. 
As I said, the Commonwealth is showing complete contempt for its own employees. I am surprised that honourable members on the other side are prepared to accept this gross discrimination against Commonwealth employees, but I suppose that it is consistent with the Government's attitude towards workers generally, towards public servants and towards Canberra. Of course, this attitude is reflected in every electorate. Every honourable member has Commonwealth employees in his electorate and should be jumping up and down and screaming out about the injustice in this Bill which is being inflicted upon people. 
In addition, the added problem for people in Canberra who are in receipt of compensation is the fact that the Australian Capital Territory has the highest cost of living in Australia, which puts them further behind. In the June quarter we had the highest rate of inflation in Australia. But all of these factors have been disregarded. We have waited three years for the fulfilment of a promise, which has turned out to be a very hollow promise indeed. This is a disgusting piece of legislation. I am disgusted that members of the Government have accepted it meekly and have not had something to say about it. I suggest to them if they have any sense of social justice at all they have second thoughts about it and support the amendment moved by my colleague, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports. 
I direct my question to the Minister for the Capital Territory. I refer to the serious threat to employment in the egg industry in the Australian Capital Territory due to the Victorian Egg Board's dumping of eggs on the Australian Capital Territory market. Some of them are stale eggs, too, and there may be some bad eggs amongst them. 
I want to make a few brief remarks about the proceedings of Estimates Committee A, particularly its consideration of the estimates for the Department of the Capital Territory. I must agree with the remarks of my colleagues the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  and the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  when they said that they considered the proceedings to be quite farcical. In terms of any influence that those committees may have on the Budget, I would agree with those honourable members 100 per cent. I have found very limited value in the proceedings of those committees. Certainly, we obtained some information that we may not otherwise have obtained under the old systeminformation which we had to drag out of the responsible Minister and his advisers and which was not readily forthcoming. 
In the main we have to keep in mind whilst we are debating the estimates, that the Budget is already one-third spent as four months of the year have already passed. By the time we have finished debating the Budget it will be fivetwelfths spend. I do not think that we have any influence at all over the spending of the Budget. We have to realise that. In order for us to have any influence over the Budget we should be debating now a Budget for expenditure commencing on 1 January. It would not alter the timing of the Budget debate. It would alter the timing of the spending of the money. I do not see anything sacrosanct about a Budget having to go from 1 July to the end of June. The Parliament would play a much more effective role in controlling government expenditure and would have some influence over the Budget if in fact the Budget went from 1 January to the end of December. We could debate that Budget before we started to spend under it. It is interesting to note that the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  had something to say about this at a recent seminar and that he expressed some sympathy for that point of view. Certainly there are problems in relation to the revenue side of the Budget, but these would be acknowledged. It is the expenditure side mostly that we would be debating. In that way the back bench members and the Parliament generally would have some real say in Budget spending. I agree with my colleagues when they said that the present situation is farcical. The Budget is already committed and in fact four-twelfths or five-twelfths of it is spent while we are still debating it. It is a ritualistic sort of farce which has very little meaning. 
Getting back to my concession that we did get some information- as I have said it took some getting-about the Australian Capital Territory, the Department of the Capital Territory, in response to my question as to how many blocks of serviced land were available in Canberra, made several attempts to answer the question. It started off at about 3,500 blocks and then somebody suggested that there were a few more. Eventually it ended up saying that over 6,000 blocks of serviced land are available in Canberra. I was also able to extract information that that had a capital value of something like $55m. We all know what would have happened if this sort of situation had arisen in private enterprise. If some developer had developed that amount of land he could not have sat back on it indefinitely, as the Government seems to be quite prepared to do. He would have had to do something about it. I should have thought that a government which is committed to market forces would do something about its land which is lying idle and would attempt to meet the market by reducing the reserve prices. There is tremendous presure on the building industry in Canberra. It is a disaster area. If the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Ellicott)  really wanted to help the building industry in Canberra and to help the people on low incomes who want to buy land and build a home the sensible thing for him to do, which would be consistent with the Government's philosophy, would be to reduce the reserve price of that land and try to provide some incentive for people on lower incomes to get a block of land and build a house on it. 
I have put those suggestions to the Minister. I have not received a response. I have heard some spokesmen from the Department provide all sorts of excuses for not doing anything about it and saying that it may upset existing leaseholders. All I can say is that the market is down. If the Department were consistent in its philosophy it would reduce the reserve price and try to provide some incentive. At the same time as we have these 6,000 fully serviced building blocks- they are magnificent building blocks out in the Tuggeranong Valley and in some parts of Belconnen in my electorate- the National Capital Development Commission is trying to promote schemes for what we call the infill program. Some of these schemes involve fairly expensive town houses which the Commission wants to build on land that has become accepted by use over many years as parkland. Certainly, it is not gazetted as parkland, but that position applies to some 2,000 acres of parkland in Canberra. Alot of this land in the inner areas of Canberra has been accepted for generations as parkland. Now the Commission is talking about building town houses on the land when 6,000 fully serviced blocks are waiting to be built on. There is an inconsistency there in that the NCDC says that it is meeting a market demand. I do not know who is creating that demand. Obviously it is a legitimate demand if people want to build expensive town houses, but my information is that sufficient sites are available in Canberra without building on parkland at this stage. I think the Government's priorities should be adjusted to give positive incentives to people on lower incomes and families with one pay packet, to get houses. We have the land, we have the builders, we have the resources, but the social need of the lower income people is not being met, although the NCDC is very anxious to meet market needs. I suggest that if it is committed to the market, it should reduce the reserve prices on those blocks of land and try to encourage people on lower incomes to get a block of land and build a house. 
There are many areas, of course, in which we found deficiencies in the Department of the Capital Territory. I was very concerned to find that there is no organisation within the Department which is responsible for handling youth problems and unemployment problems. The welfare branch, of course, which is a band-aid organisation, does excellent work, but there is nothing to handle the youth support schemes as there is in New South Wales. A project is under consideration to establish a co-operative workshop, but there is no organisation within the Department of the Capital Territory to look at that and assess it. There is just no organisation there. The young unemployed in Canberra are greatly disadvantaged by this lack of any structural organisation within the Department to deal with these problems. Of course, there are shortages in the legislative section. We have been waiting a long time for legislation and the section does not have the resources, because of staff ceilings, to fulfil its functions. 
In conclusion, I want to mention very briefly the great concern we have for one of our few industries in Canberra. Our local egg industry is under great pressure from unfair competition from the Victorian Egg Board, which has seen fit to dump its surplus eggs in Canberra at considerably below market prices or Egg Board prices, both in New South Wales and Victoria. Our producers in the Australian Capital Territory are not frightened of competition; they welcome it. They have a better product and can deliver a fresher product which is very acceptable to our community. But we do object to dumping on the market. This has been going on for 12 months and it is time the Minister did something positive about it. He has been sitting back waiting for the problem to disappear, hoping it will be resolved in some other way. I think he has to bring in some legislation, and I hope it will be legislation that will fix a minimum price. I am quite confident that that minimum price, if the Minister moves in that way, would be below both the New South Wales Egg Board and Victorian Egg Board prices. That would stop the Victorian Egg board from dumping eggs on our market to the disadvantage of the local producers. 
We do not want to interfere with the market in Victoria or New South Wales. We want to be left alone to produce our own fresh eggs and not be the victims of dumping. If they want to produce surplus eggs in Victoria, let them convert them to pulp or powder or whatever and send the product overseas at a loss. It is up to the Victorian Government to act responsibly in this matter and not to break down the orderly processes of marketing. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, on behalf of the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory, I bring up the Committee's report on proposals for variations of the plan of layout of the City of Canberra and its environs (68th series), together with copies of extracts of the minutes of proceedings. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
-by leave-On behalf of the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory I present the report of the Committee on the 68th series of variations to the Plan of Canberra. In preparing this report the Committee had before it the report of the ACT House of Assembly's Standing Committee on Finance. The  Chairman  of that Committee appeared before this Committee to discuss the report of the Assembly. It is not intended that the work of the Assembly's Committee should duplicate the work of this Committee, but it is obviously helpful to the Joint Committee on the ACT to have the Assembly's views and to be able to take them into account. We welcome this process of cooperation between the ACT House of Assembly and the National Parliament. 
There were 18 variations initially under consideration in this series. However, one was withdrawn by the National Capital Development Commission at the hearing. The total value of the variations considered was $ 1 ,045,000. Objections were lodged to seven of the proposed variations. The Committee heard evidence on these and has approved all but two of the variations. The total value of the work involved in the 1 5 variations approved is $885,000. 
A variation was proposed to provide for a road part of the way to the summit of Mount Taylor in the suburb of Chifley. The Chifley-Mount Taylor Residents Association felt that this road would adversely affect residents in the area. The Committee carefully considered the views of the Association, and other views put forward, including those of the House of Assembly, but after considering the alternatives proposed by the Association, decided that the roadworks envisaged by the National Capital Development Commission were the best desirable alternative and that this work should proceed. The proposal has therefore been approved by the Committee. 
Careful consideration was also given to objections by Pedal Power to modifications of the cycle path system. While the Committee has approved the proposed changes, some reservations have been indicated and the Committee would expect that these will be taken into account by planners in the further development of the cycle path system. 
The proposed variations in the Belconnen Town Centre- sections 54, 55 and 65- gave rise to considerable concern. The issues involved are referred to in the report. The Committee is not satisfied with the way in which planning in these sections has proceeded. There is uncertainty about an option claimed over part of section 54 by the Canberra Commercial Development Authority. The Canberra Revival Centre also faces difficulties because of proposed changes to planning in the area. 
The Committee endorses the view of the House of Assembly's Report that a comprehensive management plan for the Belconnen Town Centre should be prepared and believes that no further decisions should be taken on the development of section 54 in particular until this is done. However, the Committee considers that the development of the proposed library in the Town Centre should not be delayed by this decision. There will need to be much better communications between all those involved before such a plan is finalised. The Committee especially wishes to emphasise its concern and dissatisfaction with the way in which planning for the development of the Belconnen Town Centre has proceeded in recent times. The Committee intends to keep this matter under the closest possible scrutiny when future variations are proposed in the Town Centre. 
The Committee has also expressed in this report its concern about the limited time it has had to consider these variations. The Committee has expressed the view before that it is essential that proposed variations come to the Committee early in each parliamentary sitting period. On this occasion there was a long delay, with the result that the variations were advertised only towards the end of the current period. The result has been that the Committee had to examine the variations immediately the time for objections expired. We had then to finalise this report within three days so that we could be sure that the required six sitting days remained for the variations to be considered by the Parliament. We assume that there will now be six sitting days for this to occur, but we can be by no means certain that this will be the case. This could mean that work on these variations would be delayed until next March. This is not a time in Canberra's development when such delays can be accepted. I therefore reiterate that this Committee expects that in future proposed variations will be advertised within a month of the commencement of the parliamentary sitting period. We take the view that the NCDC and the Department of the Capital Territory should organise their program in a way to meet such a requirement. We seek the co-operation of the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Ellicott)  to ensure that this occurs. I commend the report to the House. 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 18 September 1979: 
Does the Government acknowledge that there are, or have been, improper practices in respect of invalidity retirements from the Australian Public Service. 
Has his attention been drawn to reports that some doctors may have falsified documents relating to invalidity retirements; if so, does he have any evidence to support these allegations. 
Is there any other evidence of improper practices in respect of invalidity retirements; if so, will it be made public 

 - Mr Speaker, on behalf of the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory, I bring up the Committee's report on proposals for variations of the plan of layout of the City of Canberra and its environs (68A Series) together with extracts of the minutes of proceedings. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
-by leave-On behalf of the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory I present the report of the Committee on the 68A series of variations to the plan of Canberra. This report relates to the Committee's report on the 67th series of variations. While the  Gazette  notice described the variation as a minor modification of a previously gazetted alignment between the Old Canberra Brickworks and the Royal Canberra Golf Club it generated considerable community interest. Nine objections to the proposed variation were lodged and 12 witnesses appeared before the Committee. The modification is to a road which was recommended by the Committee in its report on the 67th series of variations to the plan of Canberra. The committee has approved this variation but is concerned that little progress has been made with the recommendations in our report on the 67th series. That report recommended that proposals be presented by now which would provide for the development of Royal Canberra Golf Club to appropriate national and international standards. The Committee suggested the use of parts of the Yarralumla Nursery and Lees Paddock. 
The Committee also suggested that detailed discussions be held on stage 2 of the West Yarralumla tourist road with Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, the Royal Canberra Golf Club and the Department of the Capital Territory as the authority responsible for the Yarralumla Nursery. The Committee considers that too little attention has been given to these recommendations and that this amounts to neglect of the findings of the Committee and the Parliament. The Committee must again express its concern at the delay. With this decision now having been made on stage 1 of the West Yarralumla tourist road steps should be taken to ensure that planning proceeds on stage 2 in accordance with the recommendations made by this Committee some six months ago. The Committee understands that the road dealt with in the variation which has now been approved is scheduled for construction in the financial year 1980-81. It therefore questions why this variation was brought to the Committee now, with an apparent degree of urgency, particularly as a limited number of parliamentary sitting days remain, and as the number of days for objections to be lodged was restricted as a result. I make the point again that this Committee expects the planning authorities to ensure that variations are put to us early in each parliamentary sitting period, that 2 1 days should be provided for objections and that ad hoc variations such as the one considered in this report should be avoided unless there are extenuating circumstances. The Committee is not satisfied that such circumstances existed in this case. 
Leave not granted. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 17 October 1979: 
1 ) Is the Canberra Hospital Private Practice Trust Fund a legally valid trust. 
Is the income from the Fund exempt from tax so long as it remains in the Fund. 
Have the trustees of the Fund frozen its assets. 
What are the assets of the Fund. 
Have any contributors to the Fund withdrawn from the Fund sums in excess of their net earnings. 
Has the Fund been regularly audited as set out in the terms of the trust deed. 
I direct my question to the Minister for the Capital Territory. I refer to the recent visit to Canberra of  Mr Shelby  Dill from Colorado Springs in the United States of America who came here, I understand, to solve the serious economic problems which the Government has inflicted on Canberra. Does the Minister expect that  Mr Dill's  visit will relieve the plight of the unemployed youth in Canberra? If so, when does he expect this Colorado El Dorado to descend on Canberra? If the expected El Dorado does not eventuate in Canberra, will the Minister give an early decision on the funding of the proposed cooperative workshop for unemployed youth in Canberra which has been under consideration by his Department for several weeks? 
I make some brief comments on the statement by the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Ellicott).  I am very concerned about the procedure that has been adopted in this situation. It is a very irregular procedure, to say the least, that a statement brought down by a Minister in this House should be tabled in the other place without the knowledge of the  Chairman  of the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory or the  Deputy Chairman  or of any member of the Committee. The  Chairman  may be happy about it, but I can assure honourable members that, as  Deputy Chairman  of the Committee, I am very unhappy about it. 
In the way in which this statement has been presented, I think the Minister has treated the Committee and the Parliament with contempt. I did not sight the statement until a few minutes ago. The Minister said that 20 of the 25 recommendations included in the report have been adopted. Of course, that is not the point. It is the ones that have not been adopted that are important. He has adopted all the less important recommendations but the rather more important ones, the ones that are most significant in terms of the commercial aspects of the leasing system in Canberra, are the ones that he has not adopted. These are the recommendations that we are all very concerned about. 
In his statement, of course, he says that the implementation is the next process. He said that there will be some resource implications. That is a polite way of saying that, because of staff ceilings, many of these recommendations which have been adopted will not be implemented. We know how long it takes to get legislation prepared in the Department of the Capital Territory. Some of it has been going on for years and years and years. Now the Minister is making the very significant statement that there will be administrative resource implications. Why does the Minister not say that the Department does not have enough staff facilities? Staff ceilings prevent it from carrying out the recommendations. Do not let us have this humbug about administrative resource implications. The problem is that there has been a very long-lasting problem with important legislation concerning the administration of Canberra. Here we are to have further delays. The Minister is practically admitting that he will not be able to implement a lot of these recommendations because of the implications. 
I know we have not much time for this debate tonight. I think he has treated the Committee with contempt. I think he should come back to the Committee and let the Committee have the opportunity of commenting on the particular proposals that he is not prepared to accept, particularly the proposals about community participation and community councils. The Minister says that these proposals are accepted in principle but he is not prepared to take any intiative to set them up. The Committee took the initiative and made specific recommendations about setting up community councils. It is not good enough for the Minister to say: 'Yes, we accept them in principle but we are not going to do anything about them'. Certainly the Committee said they should be voluntary but the Minister should spell out some guidelines and define areas and then leave it to the communities concerned to set up those councils. 
I register my protest at the procedure and the way in which this matter has been dealt with. I think it is most irregular for the Minister's statement to be tabled in the other place first without advising the  Chairman,  the  Deputy Chairman  or anybody else on the Committee. I hope that the Minister will do something to give the Committee further opportunity to consider these proposals which the Government has rejected. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 24 October 1 979: 
How is space allocated to hire cars at Canberra Airport. 
How many places are allocated (a) to each hire car company, (b) to taxis and (c) to the public. 
Will he allocate the most convenient parking areas to the public and the least convenient to hire car operators. 
