I will take up that question with the Minister for Repatriation and obtain an answer for the honourable senator. 
It has never been the policy of the Royal Australian Air Force to allow defective aircraft to fly either with or without passengers. 
I will discuss the honourable senator's request with the Minister tor Primary Industry and if I am able to do so I will make a statement later in the week. 
The present policy with regard to stand-by is that an aircraft is on 3 hours stand-by at night. In the case referred to by the honourable senator, the alert was given at 5.12 a.m. and an aircraft was airborne1½ hours later. It flew a distance of 250 miles and was on task at 7.26 a.m. In the statement referred to by the honourable senator I said thatI would be having discussions with officers of the Department of Shipping and Transport. The first of those discussions has already taken place and great benefits to the two departments concerned have been derived from that meeting. As to the second part of the honourable senator's question, we have already taken action to see that a stand-by crew is ready for occasions such as that referred to by the honourable senator when the second aircraft, taking off at midday, did not get off on time because of defects in the engine tachometer. 
The honourable senator has asked why it took 11 hours in this instance to get an aircraft into the air. 
I am answering the question. The crew of the aircraft were asleep when the alarm was given. It was given at 5.10 a.m: the crew had to be clothed, fed and briefed. 
Some honourable senators opposite think they are experts on Air Force matters. After that the crew had to be taken out to the aircraft where they had to go through the normal take-off procedure or drill. All this took 1½ hours. I do not think that anyone else could do it in less time. 
The honourable senator says that aircraft should be available 24 hours of the day. Are the taxpayers of Australia prepared to keep aircraft such as the Hercules sitting on the ground at various points throughout Australia waiting for an accident at sea?  Senator McClelland  also asked why it took the second aircraft so long to get to the search area. This aircraft was taxi-ing out to take off when a defect became apparent in one of the engines. 
How many times has the honourable senator been informed at an airport that owing to a mechanical fault his aircraft would not be taking off for a certain time? The aircraft concerned was returned to its hard standing and the defect was corrected. It then taxied out to take off again and the same thing occurred. Eventually the aircraft took off. When it returned to base after the search the engine had to be changed. I have had discussions with senior officers in the Air Force about this incident and I am sure that the policy which will be followed in the future will overcome this trouble. 
-I made inquiries when this accident occurred. The defect bad become apparent on certain aircraft at a time when we were in the course of making alterations to the aircraft at the base. Because of this, certain instructions were issued that only the pilot was to fly in the aircraft until such time as every aircraft had been put through a test. 
I have not that information with me but I shall get it and let the honourable senator have it as soon as possible. 
Fill AIRCRAFT 
When the honourable senator sent around for a copy of the book I thought that he wanted to taste some of the tasties. I will see that he docs not get any more copies. 
1 can do better than advise the honourable senator whether or not surveys are being carried out. The Royal Australian Air Force has taken action already. At the request of the Department of Shipping and Transport, a Hercules aircraft was despatched from Eagle Farm last night It carried 10 tons of detergent and spraying equipment. It went to Horn Island which, 1 understand, is close to Thursday Island and which is the landing strip for Thursday Island. A second Hercules is scheduled to take off from East Sale this afternoon. It will call at Fairbairn to pick up 9 pressmen and then will go to Townsville to refuel and then across to Horn Island. 
The first part of the honourable senator's question refers to storage. This is a matter concerning which  Senator Toohey  asked me a question in the 1 day sessional period on 25th November last year. I told  Senator Toohey  then that we were having discussions with America on this subject and that no firm decision had been arrived at and that I could not go any further than that. 
That is still the position. In regard to the second part of the question, there are two proposals that have been put forward for proving the D6AC metal. It is true that the scientists differ on this matter, and this is why I said to  Senator Murphy  a minute ago that we have had no firm proposals to date. Until such time as we do have firm proposals and know about the two methods involved I cannot go further. We would want to know the engineering reasons behind the two proposals for proving these aircraft to get them ungrounded, and we would want to know their impact on the scheduled delivery date. Until we do know those answers we cannot do anything further. 
 No discussions are proceeding at this time in regard to the cancellation of the contract for the purchase of the Fill aircraft. 
A great deal of discussion is proceeding at the present time between our project manager together with Royal Australian Air Force officers and scientists from the Aeronautical Research Laboratories of the Department of Supply and the manufacturers and scientists from the United States of America together with officers of the United States Air Force. The information which is coming back to us in Australia is not yet complete, but 1 believe the Government now has sufficient information to enable it to look at the present situation. The matter is now before the Government. 
I am not aware of the situation that the honourable senator has raised. It requires a great amount of detailed research so I ask him to put the question on notice and I will obtain an answer for him from the Minister for the Army. 
1 have no information from the United States of America or elsewhere that the F111C, the model which we are getting, is obsolescent. As modifications have been made to the latest United States Fills our Australian planes have been modified accordingly. 
I informed the honourable senator earlier that two Hercules aircraft had left. They are chasing the . oil slick at the present time. They have been instructed to do so. On those aircraft are two oil men as well as a man from the Department of Shipping and Transport in Canberra. They are directing operations and, up to the time I came into the Senate, it was believed that the measures taken are sufficient at the present time. 
This matter calls for a great deal of research and legal interpretation, so I ask the honourable senator to put his question on notice. I will direct it to the attention of the Minister for Primary Industry for a reply. 
I think I could give that assurance. The first aircraft went out to drop the detergent on the slick- 
Yes. 
'Detergent', my note says. The second aircraft has gone out now with a further 10 tons. The passenger list includes two experts, one from the Department of Primary Industry and one from the Department of Shipping and Transport. No doubt, they will assess the position and, on return, will consider the action to be taken in the light of that assessment. 
Fill AIRCRAFT 
Following the discussions in the Senate last year, which I believe could have affected the fact that the ban was not lifted in time for the Sydney sheep sale last year, it was decided to allow those people who were against the partial lifting of the ban a period of time in which they could make representations to the Australian Wool Industry Conference. After 10 months the executive of the Conference approached the Government and said that it would not review its initial decision that there should be a partial lifting of the ban. It wrote a letter to this effect to the Minister for Primary Industry. 
I presently have a submission before the Prime Minister on this matter. I put certain proposals to the Prime Minister and these are being considered. So I will defer replying to the honourable senator's question until a later date. 
There is no truth in the report that we are to receive or are looking at the F15. My Department has not looked at this aircraft yet and has not made any evaluation of it. 
And 3 went to India. The senators who are interjecting apparently do not want to hear the answer. One merino ram was sold to Italy, 9 to Romania and 3 to South Africa. 
-I do not know the answer to the honourable senator's question. I shall certainly draw his request to the attention of the Minister for Primary Industry and discuss the matter with him.I will let the honourable senator have a reply as soon as possible. 
The honourable senator who is interjecting asked this question yesterday and at that time I could not give him a reply. 
I hope that the honourable senator will accept what I now state in reply to  Senator Maunsell.  I understand that the detergent used is manufactured by Esso. I have been advised by experts in the Department of Primary Industry that it is not harmful to marine life or to the pearling industry. 
The honourable senator's question calls for considerable research work. I do not know the background. I ask him to put the question on notice so that I may take it up with the Minister. 
The demand for hard wheat is strong. I understand that in recent months Australia has lost one or two contracts because it has not been able to fulfil the hard wheat portion of the sale. The question asked by the honourable senator requires quite a deal of information which can be given only by the Minister for Primary Industry. Therefore I ask her to put her question on notice. 
BROCK MAN -I understand that about 392 merino rams were offered at the Sydney stud sheep sales on 5th February and that of that number 243 were sold. Of the number sold, 47 went to overseas buyers. I have made inquiries about the split-up of the sales of that group of 47. I understand that 10 went to Argentina, 10 to Brazil, 10 to China - that is mainland China. 
I think the honourable senator will be well aware lhat no soldier in the Australian Army would be instructed to do that sort of thing.  1  have not seen the publication referred to. I will take the matter up with the Minister for the Army. I ask the honourable senator to place the question on the notice paper. 
I cannot indicate what stage the Navy has reached in its evaluation of the Harrier aircraft; nor can I say whether  one  will be brought to Australia later this year. However, I can say to the honourable senator that my own Department has carried out an evaluation of this aircraft because it is the policy of my Department to evaluate all aircraft. I suggest that the honourable senator put his question on the notice paper. 
As I said yesterday, the Government has not received any recommendation for the cancellation of the aircraft. I said the Government had received information from the United Stales of America which warrants another look at the project as a whole. All aspects of the project will be looked at as a result of this information. I would emphasise at this stage that the Government has not received a firm proposal from the United States Air Force about the testing of our aircraft or about the impact which these tests will have on our scheduled delivery date. 
I have not said that the programme will be cancelled. Obviously, before any alternative aircraft could be considered, we would be required to make an evaluation of that aircraft. 
I could not say. We do not have all the information yet. Until we obtain that information we cannot make any decision. 
BROCKMAN - I intended to take the opportunity at the end of question time to give the trade name of the detergent used.  Senator Keeffe  asked this question yesterday. If he thinks that I was unfair in giving certain information in answer to a question asked earlier by an honourable senator on this side of the chamber, then I apologise for doing that. The trade name of the detergent used yesterday is the Esso-manufactured chemical called Correxit. I understand, from experts, that it is non-toxic. 
The 
Royal Australian Air Force gives assistance when called upon. I do not know whether it was called upon on this occasion. I shall make inquiries and let the honourable senator know. 
I have not as yet seen the statement referred to by the honourable senator and therefore I cannot answer either of the questions, but it is well known that primary industries are going through a very difficult stage. This has been caused by rising costs allied to the fact that returns for most primary commodities have either fallen or remained static over the years. It should be remembered that it has been the continuing policy of the Government to support essential industries, and 1 think all honourable senators would agree that rural industries must be regarded as essential because of the important role they play in earning overseas currency. The Government is continuing to review the problems of rural industries. Its concern over the years has been to alleviate the burden of rising costs by a variety of measures. 
The honourable senator might place that question on the notice paper. If the Associated Chambers of Commerce desire to assist rural industries I feel sure that the rural industries will be very glad to have their assistance. 
 I am not aware whether wool brokers have recently increased their charges, or whether they have clone so because a plan has come forward. I therefore ask the honourable senator to place his question on the notice paper. 
Last week the honourable senator warned me that he would be likely to ask me this question. So I have ascertained some information for him. The total cost to date of providing the ground facilities at the Royal 
Australian Air Force base at Amberley for the Fill and for the training and maintenance of crews in the United States of America is S8.8m. The total advised expenditure as at 28th February 1970 on all stores and supplies for the Fill and for the purchase of the aircraft was $ 194.7m. I point out to the honourable senator, however, that the provision of facilities at Amberley cannot be entirely attributed to the Fill aircraft as the buildings were of pre-war vintage and needed replacement in any case. 
I have not a detailed list of the variety of measures which the Government has taken to assist primary industry. I will get it for the honourable senator. I believe that the other part of his question touches upon a matter of policy. 
 1 understand that in recent years American companies have purchased land in South Australia and elsewhere. I think that in South Australia in one instance, a company purchased 1,200 acres of land and in two other instances 400 acres of land. I understand the companies have purchased that land for the purpose of growing fruit. They are granted water rights just the same as any other person living in South Australia engaged in the fruit industry under conditions applicable at the time of making application for that water. I do not know sufficient about the pea industry to know whether this would dampen down the present pea prices, but knowing sufficient of primary industry and having had experience of it myself in years gone by, I would think this would be the case. 
There are 7 aircraft assigned to the VIP flight, namely, 3 Mystere 20s, 2 HS748s and 2 BAC111 s. I have not any detailed information of the cost per flying hour. The guide I generally use is about $700 per hour for a BACIII, about $450 per hour for a Mystere 20, and about $190 per hour for a HS748 aircraft. 
I am not aware of the article to which the honourable senator refers. I will trace the article, look at it and reply to the honourable senator by letter. 
1 do not think that on any occasion in this place have I suggested that Australia would opt out of the Fill contract. The Minister for Defence, as he said in his statement to the Parliament, is going to America to discuss the matter of the Fill project with the Americans. At the present time we have had no firm proposals from the Americans. Until such time as we obtain firm proposals we cannot do anything about getting our Fill aircraft out of the grounded state they are in at present. 
lt is true that extensions are being made to the runways at Learmonth. This is being done so that a quicker turnround of aircraft using the runways can be achieved. Any of the present Royal Australian Air Force aircraft can use the runways there. Learmonth is quite capable of taking the Fills, when they come. At this stage, I do not think I have anything else to add. 
I cannot inform the honourable senator as to how many areas of the F111 are fabricated with D6ac steel. The other part of his question related to the discussion that is going on at present between American scientists and United States Air Force officers and our own scientists and Air Force officers, so I cannot answer that part. 
I am not aware of the article to which the honorable senator refers. I would hope he would direct my attention to it by supplying me with a copy and, should he wish, ask me a question at a later date. 
I have not seen the representations which the honourable senator refers to but I shall certainly take his question up with the Minister for Primary Industry and let him have an answer as soon as I can get one. 
The affected part is a T shaped strip - it is called an alloy extrusion - which is secured to the wing spar for the purpose of attaching the leading edge section to it. The corrosion, I believe, has taken place in the top end of it. It is not very serious. 
lt is true that a number of countries throughout the world impose very stringent restrictions on imported products. I have not seen the report to which the honourable senator referred. As he is asking for a statement on future government policy I will refer the matter to the Minister for Primary Industry and get a reply for him. 
I have not seen the two reports to which the honourable senator refers. I should be very glad if he would show them to me. I would then discuss them with the Minister for Primary Industry and let the honourable senator have a reply later. 
It is true that 7 Neptunes have been temporarily taken out of general service following a routine inspection at Richmond of one of the 
Neptunes in which corrosion was found. All the other Neptunes were subsequently inspected and 6 more were found to have this corrosion. The aircraft belong to No. 10 Marine Reconnaissance Squadron based at Townsville. As most of their work is over the sea they are prone to this sort of defect much more than are aircraft which operate all the time over the land. The repair to each aircraft will take 7 days. The aircraft which are affected will be off general flying duties until they go through the repair programme. No aircraft will be brought in to replace them. 
My attention has been directed to this matter. I understand from the Department of Primary Industry that the meat is being exported to Canada legally and is being trans-shipped across the Canadian border illegally. The problem has nothing to do with Australia or Australian exporters, nor is there any suggestion that Australian exporters are acting in an illegal way. The meat shipments into Canada not only go from Australia and New Zealand, which are the two affected countries, but also go from other countries. The problem, as  1  understand it, is primarily a domestic one for the United States Government and the Canadian authorities to sort out. As regards the assurance for which the honourable senator asks, my understanding is that there is no blame attaching to Australia; nor can Australia do very much about the situation other than join in the call made by the New Zealand Prime Minister for a tightening of the regulations. 
I cannot give any more information than the Wheat Board has released. I ask honourable senators to remember here that the Board is a statutory authority. The Board says that at this stage it is difficult to forecast where it might make further sales and that for the time being it will concentrate on maintaining the sales to regular markets. 
There is a situation in the pea and bean industry which is causing great concern to the growers in the industry. The figures up to the end of December 1969 show that there has been a record crop but export sales have remained more or less stationary over the past 12 months. The figures also indicate that domestic sales, while remaining stationary at the level of previous years, have not improved as the industry anticipated.  I.  understand that the stocks on hand are equivalent to 6 months supply. The industry panel is meeting today in Melbourne to discuss the. situation and no doubt when the meeting concludes the panel will make available to the Minister for Primary Industry its findings on this matter. On the other hand,  I  understand that the canners themselves have taken action to try to rectify this situation by saying that they will take the harvest from only 40,000 acres this year instead of the 52,000 acres which were planted last year. 
The honourable senator asked me last Thursday, I think it was, a whole series of questions relating to the Canadian wheat industry. At that time 1 asked him to put his questions on the notice paper. I understand that the Canadian Government is endeavouring to curb wheat production in that country. I further understand that at the present time Canada has a record stockholding of some 950 million bushels and is paying farmers $6 an acre, I think it is, not to grow wheat and $10 an acre if they grow an alternative crop to wheat. 
1 have given the Senate some information about the Canadian system in respect of wheat growing. I know that there is a system of price support for wheat in the United States of America. I am not familiar with the details of every plan to assist wheat growers. I ask that the honourable senator put his question on the notice paper so that the Minister for Primary Industry can reply to it. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
The Minister for Defence announced in the House of Representatives last Thursday, 5th March, that he would visit the United States of America at an early date to consult with the United States Secretary of Defence on all relevant aspects of the F111 project. 
I move: 
That the BiU be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to bring into operation for repatriation Service pensioners the election promise of the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  that the Government would introduce legislation providing increased pensions for married means test pensioners who lose the economies of living together because of failing health. The specific proposal is that where pensions are now paid at married rates to each of such a married pensioner couple, each will receive pension at the standard rate after the passage of this legislation. The Bill makes the same provision for Service pensioners as is made for age and invalid pensioners in the Social Services Bill introduced by my colleague  Senator Dame  Annabelle Rankin who in this chamber represents the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth). 
Honourable senators will know that an eligible ex-serviceman or woman who is single, widowed or divorced may receive a Service pension at the standard rate, namely $15 per week, which is higher than the married rate - currently $13.25 per week - payable to each of a married pensioner couple. The higher rate for single people recognises their special needs as compared with married pensioners who, because they live together and are able to share common expenses, are in a relatively better situation. lt must be accepted, however, that the position of married couples who because of illness, for example, must give up normal domestic living to be cared for in a nursing home is often the same as that of single pensioners. The Bill gives practical recognition to this fact. 
Clause 3 of the Bill therefore provides that where a repatriation board is satisfied that a pensioner husband and wife cannot live together in a matrimonial home because of the illness or infirmity of either or both of them, and these circumstances are likely to continue indefinitely, the Service pension may be granted at the standard rate. 
Under the Repatriation Act a repatriation board is the primary independent determining authority concerned with the determination of claims. It is for that reason that the power of determination in these instances is given to a board, lt will exercise the power in relation to Service pensioners which is exercised by the Director-General of Social Services in relation to age and invalid pensioners. Under the Social Services Act the Director-General has a general power to review a determination whenever it appears to him that sufficient reason exists for doing so, and upon review he may affirm, vary or annul it. Clause 3 of the Repatriation Bill gives a similar review power to a repatriation board in relation to the circumstances of married pensioner couples who may be eligible for the standard rate. 
The Bill also provides in clause 4 that couples who benefit from the amendment I have outlined may, subject to their means, also receive supplementary assistance, often known as rent allowance. It will be recalled that in 1968 the Government amended the Repatriation Act to provide that, where one of a married pensioner couple dies, the surviving pensioner receives for 6 fortnights the amount of pension that would have been payable to the couple jointly. The Bill provides that this benefit will continue to be paid on the basis of the married rate. 
The Bill also provides for the appropriation of the Consolidated Revenue Fund to the extent necessary for the purposes of the Bill. It is proposed, in accordance with the usual practice, that the increases in pension rates provided by the Bill will come into operation on the pay day following royal assent. The measures I have outlined represent a further development in the Government's provision for the needs of means test pensioners, and I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Fitzgerald)  adjourned. 
I think it would be fair to say that none of the Services would withhold the belongings of a deceased soldier, airman or seaman, and it is regrettable that in this case the belongings of the deceased soldier cannot be traced. The honourable senator was good enough to give me notice that he would be raising this matter on the adjournment. To this stage I have been unable to obtain full details of the case but I assure him that I will take it up with the Minister concerned and ask the Minister to reply to him personally. 

 Senator POYSER (Victoria [10.53]- I wish to raise a matter which concerns me. It relates to alleged charges of assault on the late  Mr Lionel  Pugh, an Australian Broadcasting Commission reporter, at Essendon aerodrome on 28th February, and to the report which appeared in the Melbourne 'Sun' on Saturday last, 14th March. The report seems to indicate that decisions have been made in relation to this matter without the fullest and most complete investigation. I quote a report which is alleged to have been given to the Press by Superintendent E. S. Canney, officer in charge of Commonwealth Police in Victoria, who has investigated the allegation. The newspaper article carries the headline 'Report Says Pugh Punched' and goes on in this way: 
Radio reporter the late Lionel Pugh was punched, but only after 'extreme provocation', says a report compiled by the Federal Police. 
Later it gives much more detail: 
Superintendent E. S. Canney, in charge of Federal Police in Victoria, investigated the allegations. 
His report says that one Federal policeman in plain clothes was present, but he definitely did not assault Pugh. 
The report says that, after a demonstration at Brisbane Airport, it was decided that all except newspaper photographers would have to stay behind a barrier when Burchett arrived at Essendon. 
Several reporters jumped the barrier and were ushered back behind it. 
Despite warnings to stay behind the barrier. Pugh and two others again jumped the barrier, the report says. 
The Federal policeman chased two reporters and a uniformed Department of Civil Aviation officer chased Pugh. 
The report alleges that Pugh rammed his tape recorder into the officer's face and kneed him in the groin. 
Pugh was then punched and taken back behind the barrier, it says. 
The Department has not decided whether action should be taken against the officer. 
I am afraid that if the matter remains in that situation it might be the end of a proper investigation, lt is entirely contradictory to a written statement that the late Lionel Pugh gave to both the Australian Journalists Association and the ABC. This indicates that the fullest possible inquiry is warranted to ensure that the action taken by police officers on that occasion was taken in the interests of keeping control in the area. 
According to the reports that I have been able to see, it seems that reporters were kept off the tarmac on that occasion and were denied the use of the VIP room at the airport because it was reserved for television channel GTV9 for the purpose of an exclusive interview wilh Burchett at the request of his solicitor,  Mr Frank  Galbally. lt seems also from the reports that 1 have been able to see and from statements that I have heard that no reporters moved onto the tarmac at Essendon. On no occasion did that happen. Only photographers were on the armae to take photographs of the arrival. When  Mr Burchett  and his solicitor walked into the covered walkway leading towards the terminal building many reporters were able to get to  Mr Burchett  and started to interview him.  Mr Pugh,  in bis statement to the ABC and the AJA, has indicated that upon seeing other reporters already interviewing  Mr Burchett  he and another person moved in to interview him. 
When Pugh entered the covered walkway - not the tarmac as was indicated in the inspector's statement - he was grabbed by an officer in a Department of Civil Aviation uniform and thrown against a fence. A fist was raised and Pugh said: 'You keep your hands off me'. Without provocation he was struck, lifted from the ground and thrown by the DCA officer to another officer in plain clothes. That officer in turn punched 

 Mr Pugh, put an arm lock on him and removed him from that area back into the reception section and told him to say there. It would appear from the information which is available both to the ABC and to the AJA that several people could well be called as witnesses of this incident. I believe there is also every likelihood that television stations and even the Victoria police have photographs of the incident. 
I am disturbed to think that this can be brushed off simply by an inspector saying that this did not happen and indicating in the very last paragraph of this statement that no decision had yet been made on whether action will be taken against the DCA officer. This matter is far too serious to be allowed to pass without the fullest investigation being conducted and without calling many witnesses who were present at the time. The situation is arising in Australia in which there is far too much provocation by both Federal and State police which results in demonstrations of force where force does not exist. We have seen an example of that in Canberra. On that occasion it was not the Commonwealth police who provoked action in a demonstration but the State police who were brought in to assist. I refer to the demonstration against the visit of Marshal Ky to Australia when it was proved conclusively that provocation outside the Hotel Canberra caused a melee which never would have occurred. There would have been only a peaceful demonstration. 
If there are to be strong arm tactics in this community every time there is a demonstration or when some person wants to interview another person, I am afraid that we will finish up in a situation like that which exists in New York and in other cities of America and that finally guns will be used and innocent people will be shot down in the streets. It would be very serious if that situation were reached. It is most disturbing that the fullest inquiry has not been initiated by the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton).  It is a matter of public knowledge now that shortly after the incident to which I have referred the reporter in question was found dead in Royal Park in Melbourne. That aspect will be the subject of an inquest and for that reason I do not propose to go into it tonight. The journalist reported to the Australian Journalist Association and to the 
Australian Broadcasting Commission that after the assault occurred he was treated at Prince Henry's Hospital for abrasions and an injury to the head. I would like to know whether the medical report has been made available to the Minister. 
I urge that the Minister take action to ensure that the matter does not rest with a 2-paragraph report in a Melbourne newspaper and an attempt to make us believe that that is the end of the incident. It is quite clear that sufficient witnesses to the incident are available to justify a full inquiry to determine what really happened on that night. The man concerned is now dead and everything should be done to clear him absolutely if he is innocent of the charges of provoking the assault. 

 Senator COTTON (New South Wales - Minister for Civil Aviation) - It will be remembered that  Senator Mulvihill  addressed a question on this matter. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - It is necessary for the Minister to seek leave. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 Senator Poyser has raised some points which may cause me to make further inquiries. He has my assurance that that is in no way intended to cause delay. However, in the process of making comments - as the senator rightly did - inferences must be drawn. Allegations are quite obviously intended. One must do what one can not only to answer the allegations and inferences but also to try to protect the situation of all those who are involved.  Senator Poyser  has my assurance that that is what I will be trying to do. At present I have nothing more that I can communicate to him. I will be endeavouring to get more information. When I have it, I will see that it is made available.  Senator Poyser  has asked me to ensure that justice is done and the truth established. I will do my best. 
-BROCKM AN - The Minister for the Navy has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
No. 
Not applicable. 
Not applicable. 
Not applicable. 
I will draw the honourable senator's request to the attention of the Minister for Primary Industry. 
I shall direct the attention of the Minister for Primary Industry to the honourable senator's question and ask him as a matter of urgency to get these figures for the honourable senator. 
I thought that I had given the honourable senator the information for which he asked. If he would like detailed costs, I suggest that he place a question on the notice paper and I will obtain an answer for him. 
The Minister for the Navy has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The RAN is interested in V/STOL (vertical take off and landing and short take off and landing) aspects of aircraft operation, and all developments are kept under study. It has not been necessary to date to undertake a direct RAN evaluation of the Harrier, because the RAN has been kept fully informed by the British Service authorities. 
Not to my knowledge, but a team from the British aircraft company concerned was in Australia earlier this year and informed our Services fully on present developments. 
I can only assure the honourable senator to the best of my ability. I remind him that the Royal Australian Air Force has had dependants of RAAF personnel at Butterworth for well over 10 years and over that period Australia has bad no serious fears or worries about these dependants. Something like 1,000 Australian children go to a school on Penang Island. These children have been travelling to the school by bus and up to date there has been no incident involving them. Normal contingency plans are in existence for the protection of the dependants in the event of a need arising for their protection. Our view is that the need to implement these plans in most unlikely, and I hope the situation remains that way. 
The Minister for the Navy has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Minister for the Navy has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
7. 
9. 
The Minister for the Navy has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 

<graphic href="943232197003191_10_0.jpg"></graphic>

I would have to take the figure given by the honourable senator as being factual because I do not know the figure. If he desires I shall obtain this information for him. 
 I do not know why the honourable senator has directed this question to me because it refers, no doubt, to civilian airlines. However, I shall take the matter up and see what information I can obtain for him. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
To date Fill spares to the value of $US33.919m have been delivered and a further $US5.693m have been ordered but not delivered. 
The Minister for the Navy has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
No record can be found in the Navy Department of such an offer having been made by L. J. Hooker. 
The Minister for the Army has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
An announcement by the Vietnamese Minister for Social Welfare on 14th February indicated that the  President  had approved in principle the establishment of a Casino. The site had not yet been chosen. The project was being planned as a tourist venture, with twenty per cent of the proceeds of the sale of admission tickets and counters going to the Government. The Casino would initially provide for gaming rooms but other facilities such as dance halls and a theatre might be added later. The Minister specifically denied that the Casino would be a centre for legalised prostitution. 
and (3) See (1) above. 
The Minister for the Army has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
I understand a film along these lines was shown on television recently. 
No. 
There was an incident in 1966. The matter was investigated and discussed in the House on 14th March 1968. 
Instructions on this matter are quite explicit and follow the provisions of the Geneva Convention. 
The Minister for the Navy has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
No. 
Under the Services Vocational and Educational Training Scheme, all personnel with less than 15 years' service are reimbursed 75% of fees on successful completion of a course, or if the course must be abandoned due to Service exigencies. Personnel with more than 15 years' service receive 100% refund. 
No. Many personnel pay by instalments, and receive reimbursement. 
My attention has been drawn to the report to which the honourable senator refers. I have not been able to study it in detail. The matter to which he refers has been a bugbear within the wool industry for many years now. I would not know so much about the depressing effect it may be having on present prices because hint buying and pie buying have been in operation within the wool industry for many years now and perhaps have had their effect over the years. I shall certainly take up the point made by the honourable senator with the Minister for Primary Industry and see whether he has any further information on it. 
The honourable gentleman to whom the honourable senator has referred is entitled to his view, but I remind the honourable senator that following a discussion in this chamber on the partial lifting of the embargo on the export of merino rams the Minister for Primary Industry gave all sections of the community an opportunity to place their views before the Australian Wool Industry Conference. That opportunity was not taken by the gentleman referred to by the honourable senator; therefore I do not think he has any comeback now. However, I will draw the attention of the Minister for Primary Industry to the question. If he wishes to pass any information on 1 will forward it to the honourable senator. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
The Fill will be able to land at all operational bases throughout Australia. 
Including the project for extension of the runway the total approved estimate for the provision of Fill ground facilities at Amberley is dollars Australian 6,513,000. Expenditure on these projects to date total dollars Australian 5,361,331. Current indications are the final cost will fall well within the approved estimate. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
and (2) To ascertain even the approximate cost of 24 Phantom aircraft together with air tankers would necessitate  a  complete evaluation of the aircraft configuration with an assessment of the specialist equipment, engineering changes and support elements required to permit the aircraft to be operated to the best advantage in the Australian environment and to meet Australian requirements. 
In these circumstances I am also unable to answer the second part of the honourable senator's question. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The status of the stocks of fish off Australia are under continuing examination. Policies of control of effort in a fishery are already applied to the western and southern rock lobster fisheries in which' limits are imposed on the number of boats licensed to engage in the fishery and on the number of rock lobster pots permitted to be used from each such boat. The number of fish processing boats licensed in the northern prawn fishery has also been limited. 
It is the policy of the Government to limit licences only where uncontrolled opportunity for boats to enter a fishery will have adverse economic effects on the fishery as a whole. Licence limitation policies are adopted in conjunction with management policies developed on the basis of scientific evidence for the conservation of the fishery concerned, including techniques such as closed seasons and areas, legal minimum sizes of fish and regulation of the type of fishing gear used. The Government has announced plans to undertake extensive scientific research in the northern prawn fishery, which is the one of most concern to the Honourable  Senator, to  provide data on which decisions concerning the rational development and if necessary the conservation of the fishery can be based. With reference to suspending the issue of licences for one year, I presume that the Honourable  Senator refers  to the issue of new licences. Such action would be contrary to the Government's policy of supporting the rational development of our fisheries and permitting the issue of new licences where there is no evidence to justify restrictions. 
The issue of licences for fishing in Queensland waters is the prerogative of the Queensland Government. Licences under the Fisheries Act are valid throughout proclaimed waters unless a State licensing authority issuing the licence on behalf of the Commonwealth and with the Commonwealth's consent restricts its area of operation within the proclaimed waters adjacent to that State. This is done in respect of zoning arrangements in the two major rock lobster fisheries. I am aware of the present weakness of the Fisheries Act in relation to the administration of area restrictions and a solution to this problem is under consideration in a review of the Act now under way in my Department. However, even if the Act is eventually amended to enable more effective administrative machinery to be introduced, the Government will hold to its policy of avoiding placing restrictions on fishing effort except in cases where there are compelling reasons based on the conservation of stocks or the economics of the fishery. 
The Minister for the Navy has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
No. The normal number supplied with meals at HMAS Cerberus during week-days is 1,700 and this drops to 800 to 1,000 during week-ends. Where alternative main courses are provided, in accordance with economic catering practice, sufficient of each dish is not provided to cater for the total number present. The overall quantity is always adequate. There  is  no question of 'excess catering money involved, as under the Naval catering system a daily Victualling Allowance for each person fed is credited to a Mess Account. The value of provisions issued to galleys and messes is charged to this account and any credit  or  debit balance is carried forward to the succeeding day. These are book entries and no cash transactions are involved. In consequence there can be no 'excess catering money'. 
The Minister for the Navy has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Minimum deck area per man for sailors in the RAN is 17 square feet. (Cubic volume is not used as this varies with the tween deck heights used in individual ships). 
The deck area of 3P Mess is 945 square feet which allows for an area of 17.5 square feet per sailor. The 54 sailors accommodated use this area for sleeping and recreation only. 
Sailors dine in a separate dining hall, the size of which is calculated at 3i square feet per sailor. The sailors have meals in three sittings, and the dining hall caters for 60 men per sitting. 
The Minister for the Navy has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Where a sailor, who is a contributor to the DFRB Fund, retires or otherwise ceases to be a member and is not entitled to a pension under the DFRB Act his contributions are refunded in full. There is no fee or deduction for administrative costs. 
In addition to a refund of contributions a saiior may also be entitled to be paid a gratuity in respect of each completed year of service subject to his enrolment in the Reserve (non active). Should lie refuse to so enrol his gratuity is reduced accordingly. His refund of contributions is not affected. 
The Minister for the Navy has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
There are no Vocational Guidance Officers in the R.A.N. However, an officer is nominated as Resettlement Officer in every naval ship and establishment. The qualifications are general naval experience and a detailed knowledge of settlement regulations and procedures. 
The Resettlement Officer is LieutenantCommander A. P. Negus, who has had 14 years' naval experience and is fully conversant with resettlement procedures. 
The Minister for the Navy has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Civilian personnel at some isolated Naval establishments such as HMAS Cerberus are paid an allowance for the use of private vehicles for the purpose of transport to and from places oi employment. 
Authority for payment of such an allowance to Naval personnel has been given in respect of HMAS Coonawarra and HMAS Creswell. The question of extending the payment of the allowance to Naval personnel serving in other isolated establishments, e.g. HMAS Cerberus, is under consideration. 
The Minister for the Navy has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
No shore accommodation exists at Williamstown dockyard for officers and sailors from ships undergoing refit. When conditions do not permit living aboard their own ship, the duty watch is accommodated in an accommodation ship alongside, younger sailors in HMAS Lonsdale and older sailors who prefer to find their own accommodation ashore are paid an allowance to do so. 
Living conditions on board the accommodation ship are recognised as substandard, and it is planned to build a modern barracks in the Williamstown area as soon as possible. 
The Minister for the Navy has provided the following answers to the honourable senator's questions: 
The amount of S1.22 per day in respect of accommodation and victuals is deducted from a sailor's pay at source, ie, it is taken into account when the Service Basic Wage is being calculated. This applies to all Servicemen. It is not the cost of meals and accommodation but an arbitrarily set amount. 
If a single sailor is living out ashore he is paid this amount as a living out allowance. A married sailor living out is not paid living out allowance but is paid Married Allowances of $1.85 per day whether living in or out. Thus the only real deduction is from the single man living in. 
It is not considered that any anomaly exists. 
The Minister for the Navy has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The 'Southern Cross' cinema was built in 1956 at a cost of approximately £100,000. This amount came principally from the Ships Fund of HMAS Cerberus and derived from the profits of the Ship's company canteen at Cerberus. In addition to the amount provided by the Ships 
Fund, some monies were raised by the Ship's company and auxiliary committees through various social etc., functions. 
The scale and type of amenities provided for serving personnel of all three Services is determined by die Minister for Defence and reviewed from time to time. 
The Minister for the Navy has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Instruction at the training establishments is given by officers, sailors and civilians. 
The majority of officer instructors hold degrees or diplomas and most of these relate to educational qualifications. Other officers hold special qualifications as instructors, e.g. Qualified Flying Instructors and Air Warfare Instructors. 
In the other two categories some of the instructors have recognised teaching diplomas or degrees. Of these some have had sea experience. 
The bulk of sailor instructors have no recognised teaching qualifications but they have bad extensive sea experience related to the subjects they teach. It is the policy to post a sailor to an establishment near his home port when practicable between sea postings and for this reason sailors are generally not posted to particular schools. Courses in instructional technique are provided for instructors. 
The Minister for the Navy has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Because of the completely different nature of administrative and operational tasks associated with the running of the Navy and therefore the totally different skills and experience required, the suggestion is not considered practical. 
The Minister for the Navy has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Education Allowance may be paid to Service personnel in Australia whose children are undergoing secondary education, at the rate of $1,205 per annum, where the child attends school as a boarder or $625 per annum where the child attends day school. 
This allowance may only be paid where the member's wife accompanies him on postings, the child has been living with his parents prior to posting and it can be established that a move would seriously interfere with the continuity of the child's education. 
Where a member of the Services is posted overseas and his wife accompanies him at Departmental expense, an Education Allowance may be paid in respect of a member's child who . is aged nine years but has not attained age twenty. This allowance is also paid at the rate of $1,205 per annum where the child attends school as a boarder or $625 per annum where the child attends day school. 
Compassionate leave is granted in the following cases: 
Death, imminent death or dangerous illness of wife or child. 
The imminent death of a parent or near dependent relative so that the man can see his parent or the person concerned before death takes place. 
The dangerous illness or death of a parent or near dependent relative - provided the presence of the man in the home is essential and there is no other son or daughter at home or readily available to give the necessary assistance. 
The infidelity of the man's wife. 
Serious domestic hardship where the presence of the man is essential. 
On removal, where it is necessary because of the wife's health or because the ages of the children are such that it would not be reasonable to expect her to bear the sole responsibility for the movement of the family. 
Compassionate leave of a period not exceeding seven days in any one leave year can be granted. 
A member granted compassionate leave is entitled to a free travel warrant normally debited against his entitlement to free leave travel. 
The Minister for the Navy has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Daily feeding rates in the Royal Australian Navy are fixed on a per capita scale, with varying rates according to the numbers fed in the mess. All rates are reviewed quarterly concurrently with the review of standard issuing prices, and variation is normally only one or two cents. 
Rates in cents applicable during the third quarter of the current financial year are: 
Messes of 50 or less - Sea 81, Shore 79 
Messes of 300 or less- Sea 79, Shore 77 
Messes of more than 300  -  Sea 77, Shore 75 
Ships in strategic reserve and Vietnam service receive supplement of 4 cents, ships on broadside messing, 1 cent. Broadside messing is the system in older ships which have not been converted to cafeteria style messing. Special higher rates are fixed for tropical establishments and junior members, ie, junior recruits, apprentices cadet midshipmen and cadets. 
Total victualling allowance claimed in HMAS Cerberus for financial year 1968/69 was $436,564. Amount of savings for the same period was$ 16,368. 
An extremely high standard of feeding was maintained in this establishment. The savings that accrued were attributable to the economies that result from catering for a ship's company of approximately 2,000 sailors and from absences on short leave. 
The speeches on the Wheat Stabilisation Bill have been rather interesting but most of them have had very little to do with this Bill. I feel that those speeches would have been much better kept until the time when a Bill which is still in another place comes to the Senate. Honourable senators could then deal with the various problems they have found in the wheat industry. The Bill before the Senate is purely a machinery Bill which allows the Government to meet its obligations. These obligations were imposed on the wheat industry in the first wheat stabilisation scheme in the early history of wheat stabilisation. The obligations extended over a period of 5 years and they have been renewed each time the wheat stabilisation scheme has been re-negotiated. Yet after 20 years the Government, for the first time, is called upon to live up to the obligations which it undertook in those early years. This is why I say the subject matter of this Bill is restricted and it should not be a Bill on which honourable senators roam around the whole of the wheat industry, go back into the deep dark days of the depression, and so on. 
The purpose of the Bill is to enable the Commonwealth to meet the obligations under a Commonwealth guarantee of repayment of certain borrowings by the Australian Wheat Board from the Reserve Bank of Australia in respect of the wheat crop for 1968-69. Why is this necessary? It is necessary because we find, as other honourable senators have already mentioned, that the income from the sale of wheat will be insufficient to enable the Board to repay the borrowings in full by the due date. For the first time in 20 years, as I have already said, the Government will be called upon to meet this guarantee. I want to take honourable senators back and recall to them first of all how this came about. I remind them that each season all wheat to be marketed is delivered by growers to the Australian Wheat Board and is treated as a pool. Upon delivery the Board pays each grower a first advance against the ultimate pool return. The money for this advance is borrowed by the Board from the Rural Credits Department of the Reserve Bank. The Board repays the Bank as the proceeds of wheat sales are received. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  on behalf of the Commonwealth guarantees repayment by the due date. The date for the repayment of the Board's borrowings is set at 31st March in the year following the wheat season in order to comply with section 57 of the Reserve Bank 
Act. This section requires that the loans of the type made to the Board shall not be for more than 1 year. 
The position here is that for the 1968-69 pool, arrangements were made for the Board to borrow up to $624m from the Reserve Bank. The Board will be unable to repay the borrowings in full by 31st March 1970 which is the due date. The amount of the Board's indebtedness to the Bank on the 1968-69 pool accounts as at 31st March 1970 is still unclear but it is currently expected to be in the vicinity of $250m. That is what the Bill is about. I am not going to traverse the whole ramifications which other honourable senators traversed but I want to reply to a few of the questions raised. I begin first of all with  Senator Wilkinson  who led the debate for the Opposition. He asked a question regarding interest rates. I am informed that the rate of interest on Government guaranteed loans by the Rural Credits Department of the Reserve Bank is at present 5%. I am informed that the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  will determine the rate of interest to be charged on the loan by the Commonwealth to the Board at 5%, namely the present rate charged by the Rural Credits Department. This rate will apply throughout the currency of the loan and interest will be calculated on the daily balance outstanding. 

 Senator Wilkinson also spoke about the further pool payments. I am advised it is true that growers supplying wheat to the 1968-69 pool will not receive any further payments until the loan to the Board is repaid, and further, until such time as that particular pool comes into a credit position sufficient to enable a further advance to be paid. This has been, and is, accepted practice ever since the inception of the Board. I understand that most growers who have supplied wheat to the 1969-70 pool have received the first advance payment on quota wheat. I understand also that it has been agreed that for the 1970-71 season a first advance of $1.10 per bushel will be paid on quota wheat. 
The next honourable senator to whom I want to reply is  Senator Cant.  He made reference to the interest rate and a number of other matters. I am advised that under section 57 of the Reserve Bank Act it is required that loans of the type made to the Wheat Board shall not be made for more than 1 year: This particular section has been reviewed by successive Governments over a period of many years and it has been decided on each occasion that the limitation to 1 year for such loans should be retained. Growers supplying wheat to the 1968-69 pool will probably receive a second payment on their wheat by mid- 1971. By that time the Commonwealth loan will', it is expected, have been repaid and sales proceeds will be sufficient to enable a second payment to be made to the growers. 
Now 1 come to  Senator McClelland  who was. responsible for moving the amendment in the name of the Labor Party. I reply to  Senator McClelland  along these lines: The first wheat, industry stabilisation plan was negotiated by the Australian Wheat Federation, which represented the industry, with the Government of the day on the understanding that when agreement was reached on this first plan, it should be submitted to a referendum of growers. Constitutional requirements' meant that it had to be carried by a majority of growers in each of the mainland States before it could be introduced. The referendum was successful. About 60% of the growers supported it on a national basis and State majorities varied upwards from about 55%. The first stabilisation plan was for a period of 5 years and it provided for another referendum at the end of that 5-year period after negotiation again for a new and continuing plan. 
The second plan was adopted by such a substantial majority of growers in each State that it was agreed by the industry and the Government that further referenda were not necessary and the industry organisation would accept responsibility on behalf of the growers. I remind  Senator McClelland  that the decision contained in the first stabilisation plan was made at a time when the price of wheat overseas was more than twice the cost of production in Australia. At that time, it will be recalled, those who used wheat could buy it in Australia at the cost of production despite the fact that the growers were being offered more than twice that price overseas. 
The Government thought fit to write into the stabilisation plans the very obligation with which we are dealing today. It has never been called upon to meet that obligation until this year, despite the background. I have just given. In those circumstances I do not believe that this. Government can be criticised for lack of leadership. If. anyone wants to talk about positive leadership let us look at. the situation just before that time when the Labor Party took a large quantity of wheat from the wheat growers of. Australia, put a price on. it. and sent it to New Zealand- If that is positive leadership- then we in this Government do not. want any part of it. 
Now I want ro deal with  Senator McManus.  He got back on the old track of complaining that the Government would not direct the Australian Wheat Board' to disclose the price at which its wheat is sold. I inform the' honourable senator that the Minister has a power of direction1. That, power has never been used. It could be used in a situation where the Government had h&gt; direct the Board to conform with Government policy. The power of direction is a necessary requirement of the Government in order that, should it ever be necessary, it can protect the Treasury under the obligation of its loan guarantees. I remind  Senator McManus  and  Senator Little  that the Australian Wheat Board is a commercial selling organisation. It normally does not disclose details of or information about the terms and conditions of its sales. But if the honourable senators knew anything about wheat they would know that the daily asking, price of Australian f.a.q. wheat on a c.i.f. basis is available daily in London. That price is the basis on which all sales of Australian wheat are made. 
lt is available in the Library too if you want to read the report of the Australian Wheat Board. 
If anyone wants to know anything about wheat all he has to do is get the c.i.f. price, trace it back to the f.o.b. price - I think  Senator Little  will agree with me on this - and then take into consideration the volume of the sale, the amount of wheat taken from a particular port and the time under which the contract is serviced. Let us suppose that  Senator McManus  andSenator Little walked into a car sales yard, asked the price of a car and, on being told the price, said to the salesman: 'How much do you want if I take 10 cars?' Surely to goodness in those circumstances they would expect to receive some little concession. That is how the Wheat Board operates. It has a c.i.f. price which is known daily to merchants throughout the world. 
I will not tell you that. 
That may be so. I heard one honourable senator say that Canada disclosed the price at which it sells wheat to China. Canada has never disclosed the price at which it sells wheat to China. There probably have been a number of guesses which have been based on the c.i.f. price in London. I think I have replied to the amendment proposed by the Labor Party. The Government has given leadership to the wheat industry. It has cooperated at all times with the wheat industry in trying to meet the requirements of the industry and to put them into legislative form. 
I turn now to the amendment proposed by  Senator Little  on behalf of the Australian Democratic Labor Party. I think  Senator Webster  replied to a lot of the points raised in it. The Government has taken action through the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation to try to dampen down plantings of wheat. We all realise that a world surplus exists. Both the Government and the wheat industry are doing everything possible without imposing much heavier restrictions. I think  Senator Webster  replied adequately to the second point in the proposed amendment in relation to the provision of storage. As to the diversification of market outlets, I believe that the Australian Wheat Board is doing everything possible, in the situation which exists in regard to the supply of wheat, to try to find new markets. 
We on the Government side do not accept either the amendment proposed by the Australian Labor Party or the amendment proposed by the Australian Democratic Labor Party. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be added  (Senator Little's  amendment to  Senator McClelland's  proposed amendment) be added. 
-I do not know whether or not the Minister for Labour and National Service took part in a debate in Hobart. I would have to check whether the Minister made application for the use of a VIP aircraft. I suggest that the honourable senator put his question on notice.I will supply an answer later on. 
Under United States meat import laws total arrivals of fresh, chilled and frozen meat in 1970 are limited to about 1,061 million lb from all countries. Within that figure the allowance for meat from Australia is something like 527 million lb. All of the Australian allocation will be taken up by meat that is shipped direct from Australia to America. 
This matter is under negotiation at the present time and no doubt the Minister for Defence will be making a statement on it at a later date. 
That is a matter of policy. I suggest that the honourable senator place his question on notice. I will obtain an answer from the Minister for Repatriation. 
I have seen the submission from the Returned Services League. These are matters which will be considered by Cabinet during Budget discussions. 
The honourable senator recently asked me some questions. I asked him to put them on notice and this afternoon I gave him answers to those questions. Apparently he is seeking further information and I shall direct his remarks to the Minister for the Army  (Mr Peacock).I  would have thought that if the honourable senator attached so much importance to his telephone call to Canberra, one would have expected that at least he would have asked who was speaking at this end. 
My Country Party colleagues and I would like to join with the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Anderson)  and the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  in paying a personal tribute to the late  Mr Jim  Fraser. It was with great sadness and regret that I learned in Western Australia last week of the passing of  Mr Fraser.  During the 12 years ] have had the honour to be a member of the Parliament I came to have an everincreasing respect for  Mr Frasers  ability and integrity. 
There would hardly be a person in any political walk of life in Australia who had not heard of Jim Fraser.  His  untiring efforts for his Party and for his constituents in the Australian Capital Territory stamped him as a most able and dedicated parliamentarian, particularly in the Canberra political sphere. Throughout the whole of Australia he was respected as a politician and as a person. In saying that, I know that I speak for all present and past politicians from my State. The people of the Australian Capital Territory were fortunate in having such a capable man as their representative for so many years. I believe that the Parliament of Australia was enriched by his dedication and political talents. On behalf of my Country Party colleagues, and on my own behalf, T extend deepest sympathy to  Mrs Fraser  and to her son in their sad bereavement. 
Yes, it is a fact that dried vine fruit growers recently rejected a stabilisation scheme, but I do not think they rejected it on the grounds which the honourable senator has stated. However.I shall ask the Minister for Primary industry to have a look at the honourable senator's question and to give me an answer whichI shall supply to the honourable senator at a later date. 
I have seen the report of the remarks made at the American Senate Committee meeting to which the honourable senator referred. I think it should be recognised that the situation often occurs that an aircraft does not measure up to the specifications it had when it was on the drawing board.I do not agree with the remarks that the honourable senator has made butI suggest that he put his question on notice and I will obtain some information for him. 
As the honourable senator knows, the purpose of the national service scheme is to provide the Army with sufficient manpower to meet its military commitments. The Army endeavours at all times to utilise to the full the skills and qualifications which a national serviceman brings to the Army. Each national serviceman is given an opportunity to state his employment preference and it is taken into account in relation to his allocation to a particular corps. It is rather interesting to note that a survey of the past 5 intakes into Kapooka indicates that at least 79% of the national service recruits get either their first or second preference. 
On behalf of the honourable senator,I raised the matter with the Minister for Primary Industry. I think I asked the honourable senator to put his question on notice. I will check with the Minister and try to obtain an answer as soon as possible. 
I have not seen the actual report to which the honourable senator referred, but the Government is well aware of the present position of primary industry. At present the Minister for Primary Industry is having a survey carried out by his Department. For further information, I will direct the Minister's attention to the honourable senator's question. When I obtain some information I will let the honourable senator have it. 
The Minister for Repatriation has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
and (2) I have received from the National Secretary of the Returned Services League  a  submission entitled 'R.S.L. Re-establishment Plan 1970', containing  a  number of proposals agreed upon by the National Executive of the League in relation to re-establishment benefits for ex-servicemen. 
The present benefits have been considered adequate but, consistent with the Government's policy of keeping this and kindred matters under review, the proposals put forward by the League are being carefully and sympathetically studied with  a  view to determining whether current provisions of the legislation relative to reestablishment benefits should be changed or need amendment along the lines suggested by the League. 
-BROCK MAN- The Minister for Repatriation has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
and (2) Eligibility for repatriation benefits under the Repatriation (Special Overseas Service) Act and other benefits including War Service Homes loans, is based broadly on allotment of individuals or units by the Service departments concerned for special duty in a prescribed special area. However repatriation benefits are provided also in respect of a member of the Forces who, although not allotted for special duty, suffers incapacity or death as a result of action by hostile forces while outside Australia. 
Traditionally, entitlement for repatriation benefits has been more liberal for servicemen undertaking duty involving risks associated with combat or warlike operations than for those whose duties are more closely related to peacetime service. Accordingly, Ubon which is some distance from the operational areas of Vietnam, has not been declared a special area. 
It is Government policy to preserve this distinction and no justification can be seen for any change at this stage. However, the honourable senator may be assured that this is a matter which is kept under close surveillance in the light of all the relevant factors. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
There is some trade in wheat across some State borders, particularly for stock feeding purposes. 
It is contrary to the spirit and intentions of the wheat industry stabilisation legislation. It is prejudicial to the effective operation of orderly marketing arrangements. It detracts from the degree of stability accorded the industry through the operation of the stabilisation plan. 
Yes. 
Flour may not be exported except with the permission of the Australian Wheat Board. The Board would not grant permits for the export of flour produced from wheat obtained by a miller other than from the Board. The Board has informed me that it has no evidence that any miller is using wheat other than that purchased from the Board for the production of flour for either the domestic or export markets. 
The 
Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
No, as evidenced by the huge stock piles in Canada (all hard wheat) and United States of America (predominantly hard wheat). 
Last season, from an exportable surplus of 116 million bushels of hard wheats, the Australian Wheat Board sold and shipped 100 million bushels. These quantities included Queensland and N.S.W. Prime Hard, N.S.W. Lightweight Prime Hard, S.A. Hard and Northern N.S.W. f.a.q. (now called Northern Hard). 
This season, due to adverse weather in Queensland and Northern New South Wales, the production of these qualities was heavily curtailed and some markets which are interested in Australian Hard wheats cannot be supplied. 
No. All growers are subject to quotas, but special quotas were allocated in the 1969-70 season for Prime Hard wheats in Queensland and New South Wales. 
Yes, where necessary. Elsewhere segregation between Hard and Soft wheat is on a varietal basis. 
Not to any appreciable extent. 
Any assessment of possible overseas orders must have regard to the position referred to in (1). The availability of facilities at receiving points would not rank high among factors limiting production of hard wheats. This season, vide (2) above, production was very adversely affected by seasonal conditions. At any time, however, the type and variety of wheat grown should be suited to the ecology of the region. An Advisory Committee in each State each year recommends varieties to be planted in the various wheat producing regions of the State. 
Having regard to the shortage of Hard wheats from the 1969-70 harvest in N.S.W. and Queensland, the supplementary quota for Prime Hard wheats for 1970-71 has been increased by agreement between the Australian Wheat Growers' Federation, the States and the Commonwealth. 
1 passed the honourable senator's question to the Minister for Primary Industry for his comments. I have not yet received a reply. However, only yesterday 1  made  further inquiries and was assured that I will receive an answer very shortly. 
Yesterday I replied to a question on notice by  Senator Young  regarding over the border trading.  His  question today goes a lot further, and I will have to discuss it with the Minister for Primary Industry. So I ask the honourable senator to place his question on the notice paper. 
 1 said that the Royal Australian Air Force had a requirement for a strike-reconnaissance aircraft. At present the Air Force considers that the requirement is met by the FI 1 1C. In regard to the latter part  of  the question, 1 did have a number of discussions with the Minister for Defence on the FI . 1 1 project as a whole before he left for overseas. 
I could not give the honourable senator the number of resignations but I do know that in the last 12 months we have had a large number of senior pilots resigning because they have been offered better remuneration not only by the commercial airlines but also by the Department of Civil Aviation which, after all, is virtually the same employer as the pilots had before resignation. I shall obtain the information for the honourable senator and supply it to him at a later date. 
-I was not given any instructions this afternoon. I have answered questions concerning the Phantom aircraft, the use of tankers and the Fl 1 1 aircraft. 
1 ask the honourable senator to put that question on the notice paper, because he is prying into discussions between the Minister for Defence and me. 
I think the honourable senator is aware that the Minister for Defence went to the United Slates of America to discuss the whole FI 1 1 project. Until the Minister returns to Australia and reports to Cabinet, and a report is made to the Parliament, we can take only as conjecture the reports coming to Australia at present. We have available 6 pilots who have been trained on Phantoms. Two more are undergoing training at present, but of that total number only 3 are now in Australia. As to the training of pilots to fly Phantoms, 1 would say that it would normally take 4 months plus travelling time to and from the United States where they would be trained. We could have pilots undergo a crash course of 3 months. The Royal Australian Air Force still has a requirement for a strike reconnaissance aircraft. 
I will not answer that question. 
1 believe the RAAF would require tankers if Phantom aircraft are used. 1 know that the Department, of Air has undertaken a study in regard to the Hercules aircraft. I believe the result of the study is that it would be uneconomic to convert Hercules aircraft for use as tankers. Should the Department need tankers it would be inclined to choose, the 707. These aircraft, I understand, cost between S9m and SI Om each. 
1 do not know what the honourable senator means by 'fiasco'. He does not specify the time at which this was supposed to have taken place.  I  point out to the honourable senator that the Government has not decided to buy Phantoms. Its decision will depend on the report made by the Minister for Defence to the Cabinet, after which a statement will be made in the Parliament. 
I well recall the honourable senator's questions. The first called for  a  good deal of detailed information and the second contained matters relating to policy. I asked the honourable senator to put both questions on notice so that I could get a reply from the Minister for Primary Industry. To dale I have not had a reply. I shall check the position and speak to the Minister in regard to the honourable senator's request for a statement on this matter. 
 I have had representations on this matter from someone outside the Parliament and I am making inquiries into it at the present time. I ask the honourable senator to put his question on notice and I shall get a reply for him as soon as I can. 
I do not know why the honourable senator wants this information. I think most people are aware that at the present time primary industry is going through an uneconomic period which is due to marketing problems overseas. I have no information which leads me to differentiate between any of the industries that the honourable senator has nominated, but I should think that the representations which have been made to him over the last few months would have indicated to him which industry in his area requires the most attention. 
I will deal first with the last portion of the honourable senator's question. We will not know any of the answers to the questions he has asked until the Minister for Defence reports to Cabinet and then makes a statement to the Parliament. It is pure fantasy at this stage to ask questions of that nature. 
As I just said in answer to  Senator McClelland,  until the Minister for Defence makes a report we do not know. 
 I am just stating a fact and I have stated it clearly and plainly. 

 Senator McClelland refer to the Minister for Air as 'just a lackey' and 1 suggest that he should be asked to withdraw. There is no doubt that he said it. Everybody heard it. He should be asked to withdraw. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - I did not hear all of  the  question. 1 was writing at the time. 

 Senator Willesee - But in this regard the Minister is no more than a private senator, I might respectfully suggest. The fact is that  Senator Drake-Brockman  raised no objection to the alleged remark, lt was always held in the old days here that a person who considered himself to be offended was the person to raise an objection - not  a  third party, irrespective of what position that person might hold. I suggest that its nothing has been raised by the person to whom the alleged remark was addressed there is no substance in the point of order and  Senator McClelland  should not be asked to withdraw the remark. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  -  Senator McClelland,  did you make the remark? 
Since I have held the Air portfolio 1 think 1 have answered quite honestly and in a straightforward manner any questions which have been put to me concerning the portfolio and I shall continue to do so while 1 hold it. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Yes. 
Following a recent poll of New South Wales banana growers, it was agreed, by a substantial majority, that the State Government should set up a Banana Marketing Control Committee for the purpose of promoting orderly marketing of the product. It is expected that this Committee will commence operations at an early date and, when established, it could influence the economic situation of the industry in the future. 
Thus, an economic survey of the situation which obtained over the last few years, and which could not take account of these changed circumstances, may not provide a very good guide to the future. In view of this, and in the absence of any request for such a survey from the industry itself, I would not consider it appropriate to direct the Bureau to divert scarce resources from other important work, to undertake  a  further survey of the banana industry at this time. 
Should the industry  or  the State Government consider, however, that  a  survey of the industry at this or any other time would be helpful I would of course be prepared to consider such a request sympathetically. 
The Minister for Primary industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
On 21st September 1969, the Government announced its offer of financial support to assist the woolgrowing industry to implement the industry's wool marketing proposals. Wool brokers would not have been aware that the Government's offer included a proposal to meet half of brokers' handling charges associated with wool admitted to the price averaging plan, until after the Government's announcement on 21st September. Brokers were not, therefore, in a position to increase charges in anticipation of the Government's offer. 
Further, the offer made by the Government referred specifially to 'present costs', that is, brokers' charges at the time the offer was made. Accordingly, any increase in handling charges subsequent to 21st September 1969, would be borne wholly by growers participating in the price averaging plan and would not qualify for subsidy by the Government. Wool brokers have advised that they have not increased their charges since 21st September 1969. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
An article in the 'Brisbane Courier Mail' by  Mr Allan  Underwood on 9th March 1970, stated that two types of detergent were used. 
It was my understanding when I gave information to the Senate on 5th March 1970, that only one detergent was being used. It has now been ascertained that two types have been used. As the tanker is no longer leaking oil no detergent is now in use. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The inclusion of trace elements in superphosphate increases  the  price compared to standard superphosphate by amounts which  vary  according to the quantity  and  kinds of  trace  elements incorporated. In some cases,  the  selling  price  would be increased by  as  much as  $30  per ton  but  this would apply to only a small proportion of superphosphate sales. 
The amendment to the Phosphate Fertilisers Bounty Act in 1968 provided for the weight of trace elements added to superphosphate to be deemed to be superphosphate for the purposes of bounty payments. Previously, bounty had not been paid on that portion of a ton of superphosphate which was replaced by the trace elements. This amendment was designed to remove the previous disadvantage to farmers who used superphosphate containing trace element additives. This concession does not represent a bounty on trace elements as such. 
The question of whether the Government is prepared to consider subsidising trace elements used in association with superphosphate is a policy matter. When the bounty on superphosphate was increased recently, the enhanced rale of bounty applied to the approved trace element content also. 
The Minister for the Army has provided the following answerto the honourable senator's question: 
The total casualty figures to 6lh March 1970, for (a) members of the Permanent Military Forces (including members of the Citizen Military Forces on full time duty) and (b) national servicemen, are: 

<graphic href="943232197004156_19_0.jpg"></graphic>

As at 31 December 1969, 12 members of the forces were receiving special rate pensions in respect of total and permanent incapacity arising from their service in Vietnam. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Any suggestion that the Government is contemplating granting permission for the export of semen from merino rams is without foundation. 
When deciding to partially relax the merino export embargo, the Government adopted in full the recommendation of the Australian Wool Industry Conference on the subject. 
In its recommendation to the Government, the Wool Industry Conference specified a numberof conditions which should be attached to any relaxation of the merino export embargo. One of the conditions is that the current prohibition on the export of merino semen be continued. 
The Government intends to observe this and all other conditions recommended by the Conference in connection with the partial relaxation of the merino export embargo. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Canadian Government has announced a programme designed to encourage reduction in wheat stocks held in that country. Main features of the programme are that producers who reduce wheat acreage below 1969 levels and increase summer fallow or perennial forage acreages by the same amount will be entitled to compensation payments. These will be $6 (Canadian) per acre for additions to summer fallow or $10 (C.) per acre for additions to perennial forage. An individual producer will be eligible for compensation payments on a maximum of 1,000 acres. 
The ceiling on payments to individual producers is one of the important differences between this and the farm programme of the United States although some similarities with the acreage diversion programme in that country can be detected. 
No. 
 The Department of Air has not rejected the FI 1 1C aircraft. In order to meet its requirements the Royal Australian Air Force has asked for certain modifications to the Fill. These include extension of the wing tips and reinforcement of the undercart 
Yes, of course it was. The F111C aircraft's wing tips are now 7 ft longer and it has a much stronger undercart than the other Fill aircraft. 
Both yesterday and today  Senator Anderson  and I have given the only answer which I think it is possible to give. But I remind the Senate that following the fatal crash of an FI  IIA  on 22nd December, all Fills were grounded. A little later this grounding order was relaxed for 7 aircraft on a restricted basis - for testing purposes only. Following this, 2 suggested recovery methods for ungrounding the aircraft were submitted to Australia, but no firm proposals were made. However, there was an indication that there would be a delay in the delivery date of these aircraft. Following the lack of information in these 2 cases,  Senator Bishop  asked me another question about the cost of parking the aircraft after they came ofl the assembly line in America, and at the time I said that we did not have the answer to that question. With all this information, or lack of it. Cabinet decided that the Minister for Defence would go to America to try to obtain some of the answers to these questions. 
Yesterday a statement was issued in the name of the Australian Minister for Defence and the United States Secretary of Defence, Melvin R. Laird. The last paragraph of that statement said: 
It Is understood that the Minister for Defence would be reporting to the Government the results of his exploratory-  and I underline the word 'exploratory' -  discussions, having ascertained the views of the United States Department of Defence on a number of issues. 
Until we know what those issues are and the results of the discussions, neither  Senator Anderson,  who represents the Minister for Defence in this place, nor I can add any further comment. 
I can answer part of the honourable senator's question. I think the remaining part of the question is contained in a question on notice in the name of  Senator Turnbull.  Part of the honourable senator's question is the same as a question directed to me by 

 Senator Turnbull earlier in the sessional period. I gave  Senator Turnbull  a figure then that the total cost to date - that was to 28th February 1970 - for providing ground facilities at the Royal Australian Air Force base at Amberley for the Fill, for the training of crews and for maintenance in the United States of America was $8.8ni. Of the total advised expenditure as at the same date for all stores and supplies for the Fill and for the purchase of the aircraft to that date, $ 194.7m had been paid. 
I have seen the report referred to by the honourable senator, but before I would comment on it I would prefer to wait and find out what took place at the conference.  Mr McEwen  was granted the use of a VIP aircraft under the normal procedures determined by the regulations relating to VIP aircraft. 
I have informed the honourable senator of the payments which were made up to 28th February of this year in regard to the whole Fl 1 1 project. I understand that on 22nd March a further payment of $US345,000 was made. 1 understand further that three other payments totalling an estimated $US4.9m are due on or before 30th June of this year. 
I should like to thank  Senator McManus  for making this opportunity available for this very valuable discussion. I think him also for the very fair and good way in which he presented his case. I think  we  should heed what he said about pressing the panic button. I think that primary industry and all those concerned with the various industries, together with industrialists and parliamentary leaders, have to get together, sit around a table and try to think this position through. Great damage will be done to the industries and to those in the industries if we cry panic at this stage. I  thank  Senator McManus  for his warning. 
Tonight I should like first of all to state the Government's view in regard to the motion that has been moved by  Senator McManus.  I begin by reminding the Senate that there are at least 16 separate industries within the primary industry set-up, and that is taking the fruit industry as one industry only - not the various sections which  go  to make up the fruit industry. 
I am talking about rural primary industries. 
 That may be the honourable senator's view. 
You are referring to rural industries? 
It is difficult from the Government's point of view to see how any useful purpose might be served in the present circumstances by conducting a royal commission of the nature which  Senator McManus  has suggested. Indeed, such an inquiry could well prove to be a disadvantage to the primary producers in this way: An inquiry of the scope I have just suggested into 16 separate rural industries would be certainly a long and time consuming operation. It is highly questionable whether it would come up with any information which is not already available. On the other hand it would inevitably cause delays as individual industry organisations would not be in a position to make recommendations to the Government on measures to overcome their problems while the royal commission was investigating the same problems. At the same time an inquiry of this nature would necessitate deferment of any Government action which is designed to assist particular industries until the completion of a full scale formal inquiry and the submission and consideration of its report. Also a royal commission would provide a wonderful opportunity for procrastination if such were desired. 
The Government does not wish to put off this matter until some vague date in the future. Its opposition to the proposed royal commission is a- direct indication of the Government's desire to implement with a minimum of delay sound plans to assist the various rural industries overcome their most pressing problems and, at the same time, lay the foundations for adjustment and development over the long term. The primary producers are experiencing difficulties at present.  Senator McManus  has brought this fact to our attention. I feel sure that all honourable senators who have had an opportunity to attend the large meetings which have been held throughout the length and breadth of Australia will be well aware of the present situation. Nobody questions the fact that primary producers are experiencing difficulties. We must aim for practical, realistic and sound solutions of lasting benefit. The Government's policies have helped to overcome problems in the past and the Government will continue to help the producers to face up to their problems now and in the future. The Government's approach has been to provide a framework within which the producers can operate effectively and efficiently. I indicate that at the end of my speech I intend to move an amendment to the motion which was moved by  Senator McManus. 
Let us examine what has been done in regard to Government action within the rural and primary industry sectors. The Government has been active in seeking markets internationally through the Trade Commissioner Service, by way of helping exporters and through direct government to government negotiations. It has sought to achieve international arrangements which assure the securing of markets at reasonable prices through bilateral trading agreements and commodity arrangements such as the International Grains Arrangement and the International Sugar Agreement. The Government has provided stabilisation schemes and other schemes of direct assistance to the wheat, dairying, dried vine fruits and cotton industries. When the United Kingdom devalued its currency the Government provided, and is still providing, compensation to the rural industries affected. This commitment has now reached a cost of $115m. The cost to the Government of the direct financial assistance to primary industries in 1969-70 is estimated to be more than $180m. 
The Government recognises the importance of farm development and farm investment. It has provided improved credit facilities through the Commonwealth Development Bank of Australia, the term loan fund and the farm development loan fund. It has also provided taxation concessions, special depreciation rates, full deductibility of expenditure on some capital items, averaging of incomes, carry-over of losses for unlimited periods and estate duty concessions. But costs are rising. Our economy is growing. Because these rising costs impose a burden on the primary producer the Government has sought in cases before the arbitration tribunals and in general economic policies to restrain cost increases. 
Costs are rising almost continually in all advanced countries and the Government is concerned about inflation in Australia, but 
Australia's performance in managing its economy compares very favourably with other countries. Over the past 12 months prices have risen in Australia by 3.5%; in Canada by 5.1%; in France by 6.8%; in Germany by 2.7%, in Japan by 5.6%; in New Zealand by 5.7%; in South Africa by 2.6%; in the United Kingdom by 6.6% and in the United States by 6.1%. Rising costs present problems. The Government has recognised this by providing subsidies on input costs - on fertilisers and petroleum products. It has provided increased finance for research to enable farmers to improve productivity to meet the challenge of increasing costs. 
The Government's overall policy has been aimed at achieving stability; at assisting the farmer to achieve income growth along with the rest of the economy; and at helping farmers adjust to the changing circumstances of the rural industries. Sometimes these adjustments are difficult, but the Government has faced up to them in cooperation with the industries concerned. In the case of wheat, the industry, in the face of difficult problems, put to the Government sound and courageous proposals for delivery quotas. The Commonwealth has assisted with substantial finance and the States are administering the scheme, which is a most difficult job. In relation to the wool industry attention is now being directed towards marketing. From 1st July 1970, the levy for research and promotion will be reduced from 2% to 1% of the gross proceeds from the sale of shorn wool and the Government's contribution to these activities will increase from $14m to an average of $27m a year. The Commonwealth has accepted a financial commitment of some S7.3m a year to improve wool marketing under plans which will be implemented for the 1970-71 wool selling season. The object is to upgrade the preparation and presentation of the clip. This should be the forerunner of a whole range of important reforms. 
These examples of wheat and wool illustrate two principles of our policy. Firstly, the circumstances differ in our rural industries and each needs particular policies. Those who seek a uniform policy for all industries show that they do not understand those industries. While there are certain basic features common to all industries - such as efforts to restrain price increases, to seek income improvements and to increase productivity - for the most part there is a need to tailor policies to the circumstances of individual industries. 
Surely no one would suggest that an agricultural policy could have blanket application to all industries, or to all sections of one industry, or to all parts of Australia. That is the difficulty with primary industry - it is so diverse. It is made up of so many varying elements and the people engaged in it quite often have very diverse views. Secondly, it is not the Government's role to take over from farmers and their industry organisations and responsibility for planning the production and marketing of their output. The Country Party believes, and the Government believes, that the final responsibility for making decisions must come back to the farmer himself to make decisions affecting his own farm. Farmers value their independence and do not want anyone, particularly the Government, telling them how to run their affairs. 
All right. Let us go on. This is not to say, of course, that the Government has no responsibility in all this. On the contrary, governments have very great responsibilities to help the people who make up such a vital part of the nation and its economy. This Government's policy is aimed at helping primary producers achieve stability; at helping them organise themselves on a sound basis; at helping them find new overseas markets and make those markets secure by trade agreements; at helping them develop new products through research and extension; at helping them lift production where this is warranted; at providing them with access to finance on concessional terms; at helping them overcome the problems of rising costs through assistance in a variety of ways; and at ensuring that they receive all available information concerning their industry. If farmers are to make their own decisions, they must have full information. They must know what is happening around them, what is happening in their industry, what is happening on their home and export markets, and what is likely to happen in the future. On the production side they must have the best technical and economic advice. 
The Commonwealth Government has long made funds available to the States to support agricultural extension services. Since 1966-67 steadily increasing grants have been made, reaching $4. 9m in the current year. Total Commonwealth agricultural extension grant funds made available from 1948-49 to 1969-70 have been $33,550,000. The Government is active in making information directly available to primary producers. Twice a year, the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony),  as  Chairman  of the Australian Agricultural Council, makes a comprehensive report on all the rural industries and on the general economic position of the rural sector. During the last 2 years the Minister has also addressed thousands of farmers at meetings in many parts of Australia. The Bureau of Agricultural Economics is engaged in continuing surveys of the various rural industries and the resultant information is published. The Bureau also publishes regular outlook reports on the various commodities. Further, there is a number of committees and panels on which the Government is represented and these are constantly engaged in examining and assessing the situation of various industries or looking into specific industry problems. In addition, the Government is represented on marketing boards which are in close contact with the problems of the particular industry concerned. There is close co-operation between the Government and rural industries in formulating policy. The Government looks to the industry organisations for advice on policy and tries to implement policies which will have the backing and support of the industry concerned. The programme of consultation, discussion, and thrashing out of ideas and policies is virtually a continuous one. There is frequent contact between people in the primary industry organisations and the Minister and officers of his Department. Before an industry puts a proposal before the Government there has usually been much consultation and discussion between officers, and perhaps Ministers, of the Government and representatives of the industry concerned. This a two-way process. On the one hand the Government needs the advice and suggestions of the industry based on its wealth of practical knowledge and understanding of its own problems and possibilities. On the other hand, the industry needs the expert knowledge and experience the Government has available to it to help formulate policies of value to the industry on a sound long term basis. 
It is inevitable that in the interchange of ideas, in the discussions behind the scenes, in the private talks, that there should be extensive consideration of the alternative lines of action and their implications for the short and the long term. In this way it is possible to hammer out a sound practical policy proposal which has the support of the industry and the support of the Minister based on his own knowledge and opinion and the expert advice of the officers of his Department. Such a proposal is likely to be acceptable to the Government and is likely to be capable of effective implementation. One of the facets of agricultural policy in need of urgent implementation is that of adjustment, of reconstruction. This applies particularly to the dairy industry. A royal commission is hardly necessary to delineate this problem. The industry is aware of it, the State Governments have recognised it and the Bureau of Agricultural Economics and other research organisations have carried out economic surveys of the industry as a whole and in parts. What is needed is a viable plan acceptable to all sections, Governmental and industry. About 3 years ago the Australian Dairy Industry Council asked the Commonwealth to introduce a low-income dairy farm reconstruction scheme. Some State Governments had been operating such schemes on a limited scale for a number of years and the Commonwealth Government agreed to assist in a scheme of this nature to the amount of $25m over 4 years. However, the difficulty has been to negotiate a scheme acceptable to both the Commonwealth and the State Governments and which would have the support of the producers themselves. The negotiations have been most protracted and it is only recently that prospects of finalisation have come  into view.  The Dairy Reconstruction Scheme is one which has been worked out in conjunction with the industry and at its own request and yet it has run into all sorts of difficulties in getting it going. Imagine the difficulties that would arise in the case of some arbitrary unilateral action on the part of the Government. Similarly, in the case of wheat the industry has had the courage to impose upon itself, by its own decision, quite a severe discipline which demands a considerable sacrifice on the part of many growers. Apart from the fact that the Commonwealth has no power to control production, imagine the industry reaction if delivery quotas had been arbitrarily imposed by the Government - in this case it would have been imposed by the State Governments. The reaction from the industry would have been such that the scheme would never have worked. How could a royal commission have helped in these circumstances? 
Let us turn to the position of the wool industry. Last year for the first time the various sections of the wool industry came together and agreed on marketing proposals. This was not done without a great deal of work and effort by the industry leaders and the Minister for Primary Industry. Agreement was reached on a scheme which will lay down standards and help to improve clip preparation. The scheme when implemented will be the basis for many other improvements in the industry. What is next required is a study of and a quick solution to the question of objective testing of wool. Two committees are working on this. 
The Australian Wool Board is looking at the overall economic problems of the industry. The Board has brought together an eminent advisory group representative of the wool industry with terms of reference covering the main issues facing the industry both in the immediate situation and over the longer term. It is certainly to be expected that through this advisory group the Wool Board will arrive at some really worthwhile findings and recommendations. 
 I am reiterating what has been done. Let us look at the situation from that position. It would seem obvious that the method of consultation and discussion which has been outlined is much more likely to produce timely and valuable results than is the formalised and time consuming mechanism of the form proposed in the motion. That is the reason why I submit the following amendment to the motion proposed by  Senator McManus: 
Leave out all words after 'that' insert 'the Senate, being aware of the economic position of primary producers and the problems associated therewith, knowing of the immediate need for analysis of industry problems to determine requirements of policy as affecting the different industries and believing that a royal commission would not meet such an immediate need, as it would involve too lengthy a period for investigation and report, is of the opinion that - 
the most appropriate way of investigating the present problems of the primary industries would be to establish industry sponsored committees of inquiry, backed by the available resources of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics and the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, to establish lines of action in the light of a world-wide situation; and 
these committees should be required to analyse the factors affecting the individual industries and report to the Government upon short term policies to alleviate present difficulties and long term policies for the guidance of both primary producers and the Government.' 
We have advanced this proposal because, as I said during the early part of my remarks, we do not believe that a royal commission is the answer. If an industry comes to the Government and says: 'We want you to look into the various factors within our industry from all aspects and we want you to use the information that is available in the Bureau of Agricultural Economics and the Commonwealth Scientific and Research Organisation', we believe that that would be the best way of overcoming the immediate problems within the industry. We believe also that these committees, if set up, could look at the long term problems in the industry and make recommendations to the Government for implementation. When my colleagues on this side follow me in the debate they will elaborate on our proposed amendment. 
This is obviously a question that I must take up with the Minister for Primary Industry. I shall do so and let the honourable senator have the answer at a later date. 
Last Thursday in answer to a similar question I went into some detail as to why I could not, at that time, make any announcement as to what had taken place during the discussion that the Minister for Defence had with the United States Secretary of Defence. Today all I can add is that I have had discussions with the Minister for Defence, with the Secretary of the Department of Air and with the Chief of the Air Staff. I have been informed of some discussions that took place during their visit to the United States, but as the Cabinet has not been informed of these discussions I think it would be unfair of me to make any further comment at this stage. 
The Minister for the Navy has provided the following answer to the honourable senators question: 
No. A minor leak was however detected between the Diesel Oil Tank No. 3 and the Fuel Oil Tank No.1. 
All tanks are pressure tested prior to acceptance by the RAN. The leak referred to was adjacent to a titling of the Oil Fuel Healing Line. 
Repairs to the fittings have been completed at the cost of the RAN. 
Apart from sea trials, HMAS 'Swan' has had no sea-going duty since being commissioned. The trials will not be completed until 12th July 1970. 
-BROCK M AN- The Minister for the Navy has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
HMAS'Huon' comprises atimber drill hall and associated buildings erected in 1916 and minor buildings of masonry construction erected over the period 1936 to1958. Whilst not modern the existing buildings will continue to meet the limited requirements subject to minor improvements called for from time to time and accordingly there are no current plans for re-building at the Establishment 
The Minister for the Navy has provided the following answer to the honourable senators question: 
HMAS'Stalwart's' role isto provide base support for HMA ships between dockyard refits, assist in maintenance and to provide serv ices for ships in harbour or in company and she is carrying out this role. The ship arrived in Sydney from sea on 13th February 1970. and will sail for the Far East for a 2½ month periodon 9th May 1970. 
When'Stalwart' is not in refit, a once in every 3 years requirement, she is at 8 hours notice for steam. In an emergency she can sail in under 2 hours. 
 The only point in  Senator O'Byrne's  speech with which one can agree is that at present wool growers, and indeed all rural industries, are going through difficult times. This, 1 think, is brought about mainly by the cost-price squeeze in which producers are producing in a very high cost of production area and are selling the great bulk of their products 12,000 miles away in countries where the buyers are noi one scrap interested in the cost of production of the product. 

 Senator O'Byrne mentioned a number of things which he thought should be done to bring some stability to the wool industry. He mentioned marketing. 1 say to the honourable senator that on a number of occasions this Government has endeavoured to do something about marketing at the request of the leaders of primary industries but on each occasion the rank and file wool growers, by referendum, have knocked back the suggestions of their leaders.  Senator O'Byrne  made great play of the need for a referendum. Despite the fact that the New South Wales Graziers Association was one of the bodies which originally was opposed to the partial lifting of the ban, we notice that at its conference held on 14th April in Sydney when the subject of the export of merino rams was being discussed the conference confirmed that the Association was still opposed to the export of merino rams, and a resolution was passed calling for the re-introduction of the embargo. However the conference voted against the matter being put to a referendum of growers. So how the honourable senator can base his case on the claim that the wool growers as a whole want a referendum on this matter, I do not know. 
He then said that the Australian Wool Industry Conference was not the voice of the wool growers. I ask the honourable senator: What is the voice of the wool growers if the Wool Industry Conference is not their voice? The Wool Industry Conference, contrary to what he said, is made up of 25 representatives from the Australian Wool and Meat Producers Federation and 25 representatives from the Australian Woolgrowers and Graziers Council. At this stage there are no representatives from the Australian Primary Producers Union. The representatives are elected to their State organisations from which they are then elected to the federal bodies of the organisations. 
Not to this stage. Tracing the process further back, the growers in the States are elected to the various executive bodies in the States. The executive bodies in the States are made up of representatives from the various branch councils or conferences, if you like to put it in that way. I do not agree that there is not a democratic vote. If the honourable senator applied his line of reasoning to the vote of the federal executive of the Party to which he belongs, it could be claimed that that is not a democratic vote. 
In his opening remarks the honourable senator said that we must do something for the wool growers because of the financial plight in which they find themselves. Surely allowing the men who make the wool industry - the merino breeders  -  to sell their product overseas gives them some incentive to do the work that they have been doing over the years. I remind the honourable senator that the merino breeding industry is perhaps one of the few industries in which the breeders of this country are unable to sell their stock to overseas buyers. Breeders of racehorses, stud cattle, stud pigs and so on sell their animals to producers in countries overseas yet for some years now we have said to breeders in the wool industry: 'You are not allowed to sell your stud animals on overseas markets'. I remind the honourable senator that this prohibition was introduced back in the 1930s overnight, without any referendum, without any legislation. 
It was brought in by the then Minister for Trade and Customs and there was no mention of it until the announcement was made in the Parliament. 
Of course there were. 
This prohibition was brought in overnight without any reference to grower organisations in the Commonwealth. Now the honourable senator who is a member of the Party which introduced that prohibition says: 'Let us have a referendum'. What are we really talking about? Let us look at the matter. On 20th March 1969 the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  made a statement in the House of Representatives in which he said: 
The Government has decided that the embargo on the export of merino breeding sheep from Australia, which was imposed some 40 years ago, should he partially relaxed. . . . The decision taken by the Government is for a limited relaxation of the prohibition on the export of merino breeding sheep, subject to several stringent conditions, and it accords wilh the recommendation of the Wool Industry Conference. The terms of the decision are as follows: 
J should like this to be recorded so that honourable senators can have a look at it - 
Export approvals will be used only for merino rams that have been sold at public auction sales nominated by the State member associations of the Australian Association of Stud Merino Breeders. 
The prohibition on the export of merino ewes and semen will be continued. 
A prohibition will be placed on the export of fertilised merino ova. 
Not more than 300 merino rams will be allowed to be exported in thefirst 12 months from the date on which the relaxation has been made effective. 
The terms of the decision continue: 
Conditions (i) to (iv) will be reviewed annually by the Australian Wool Industry Conference which will recommend to the Government any alterations it may consider desirable. 
I hope that  Senator O'Byrne  is listeningto whatI am saying. Those were the terms of the decision. Following the announcement of the Government's decision a large number of petitions were presented in both Houses of the Parliament by members of the Opposition. Many of the signatories to these petitions gave Sydney suburbs as their addresses. 
No doubt the names of some farmers appeared on these petitions, but some persons who were not members of rural organisations were expressing their views through these petitions. Following the presentation of these petitions a debate was held on the subject in the Senate on 22nd April 1969. Supporters of all parties in the Senate took part in the debate. The debate was initiated by the Australian Labor Party, which moved that a partial lifting of the ban should not be implemented. No doubt the debate in the Senate was partly responsible for the postponement of the ram sales which were to be held in Sydney in May. It was hoped that some overseas buyers would participate in the ram sales in Sydney, but the sales were postponed. The Minister for Primary Industry allowed the next 10 months as a period during which representations could be made by organisations and individuals opposing the relaxation of the ban. I do not know of any representations being madeto the Australian Wool Industry Conference. The AWIC then wrote to the Minister and said that it was not prepared to alter its previous decision. On 1st February 1970 the Minister implemented the partial embargo. 
-Is the honourable senator suggesting that the Senate should tell the Government what policies it should implement? Ram sales were held in Sydney on 5th February of this year.  Senator O'Byrne  referred to these sales, but he told us only the details which sttited him. I want to refer to the sale in detail. A total of 392 merino rams were offered at the Sydney stud sheep sales on 5th February 1970. Of the 392 rams offered for sale 243 were sold. In other words, 149 rams were not sold. 
No. I am just coming to that aspect. Of the 243 rams which were sold 47 were purchased by overseas countries.  Senator O'Byrne  referred to the countries from which buyers came.I shall give the details of the purchases made so that honourable senators will appreciate the actual position. Argentina purchased 10 rams; Brazil purchased 10 rams; mainland China purchased 1 1 rams; India purchased 3 rams; Italy purchased1 ram; Rumania purchased 9 rams; and South Africa purchased 3 rams. It has been said that if the embargo on the export of merino rams is lifted the growers in Australia will not be able to purchase rams without having to pay a higher price for their purchases. I wish to give an illustration which is quite separate from the Sydney sheep sales to prove that this will not be the case. I wish to quote some figures to prove my point. I am afraid that I do not have the up to date figures. The figures I have show the position as at 31st December 1968, which is the latest date for which statistics are available. According to the Australian stud merino flock register there are 1,682 registered merino studs in Australia. During 1968 these studs sold 227,000 rams. At the end of December 1968 they still had 276.000 rams on hand. In other words, only about 45% of the rams available for sale in 1968 were sold. 

 - Senator O'Byrne was complaining about the difficulties which the sheep breeders are facing in Australia. The men who are breeding rams go to a great deal of trouble and heavily commit themselves financially to build up their flocks, but honourable senators opposite wish to leave them with about one-half of the progeny on their hands. Surely we should allow them to accept an outlet which is available? 
Then apply that proviso. Only 47 rams have been sold of which only one or two have left the country so far. Honourable senators opposite are not willing to give the partial lifting of the embargo the 12 months trial which the AWIC wants to give it. Let us look at the potential of our merino studs and how they could further expand their output if the incentive to do so were provided. On 31st December 1968 the studs had 1,540,000 breeding ewes on hand. In addition they had 417,000 ram lambs and 478,000 ewe lambs. With numbers of this sort involved surely there is terrific potential for the breeding of more rams if the incentive to do so is provided. All the Government is trying to do is to give the breeders of rams which the ordinary flock holders are not interested in purchasing an incentive to go on and build up bigger and better sheep. 
I should think that it would be infinitesimal. 
Surely it is some encouragement. We have the potential to go on and build up further. I have outlined some of the points which were before the Conference when it made its decision. It is said that Australia has a commodity which no other country has and that we should hang on to it. The argument sounds good, but let me speak as a practical sheep breeder. Anybody who has had anything to do with sheep knows that if one runs them on virgin country somewhere out in the bush they will produce wool of as fine a quality as possible but in small quantities and that the heavier or greater the pasture on which the sheep are run the greater the bulk or the amount of wool and the stronger the quality. I recall year after year having to go through the sheep on my property culling them out because, despite the fact that I had mated a ram that I had purchased at the Royal Agricultural Show in Perth to the best ewes on the property, I was not getting the progeny [ required. So out they had to go. This is normal practice on any farm. Let me refer to the Tasmanian wools. Honourable senators have all heard about them and their fine qualities. There are many breeders in Western Australia - and my two colleagues across the chamber from Western Australia will know this - who would like to breed this type of wool. We know of many instances where they have gone to Tasmania and bought rams and consignments of ewes hoping to produce a wool that has been produced on that particular farm in Tasmania. What happens? They get them home and they produce a much stronger type of wool than they anticipated due to the environment. 
I do not know what type they get in Tasmania but in Western Australia they get a different type of wool from the same sheep. Surely if that happens in Australia where we have our fine merino wools all over the place there will be the same result in South Africa, America, Uruguay, mainland China or wherever else they go. 
That is a risk they take. Honourable senators opposite are not going to give them the opportunity of even knowing whether it is a risk. There is a lot more to it than saying that we have a certain type of wool in this country and we are not going to let anyone have it. The wool industry and those of its leaders who have looked at this question very carefully say, as  Senator O'Byrne  said, that we are producing a type of wool for which there is a ready demand. But is it a demand that will always remain? For some years now we have had the battle of the fibres, with synthetics cutting into the sales of wool. One of the ways of overcoming this problem is to produce more wool.I believe that we are reaching the stage where, through wool promotion and wool research, we are able to interest people in wool and wool fabrics. But will we have the production of wool to enable us to continue to interest more and more people in wool and wool fabrics?I believe that in the years that lie ahead we will not unless we continue to bump up the production of wool. One way of doing this is lo see that other countries have the type of wool that is being sought. 
I have told honourable senators that 1 do not believe that the type of wool that we have in Australia will necessarily be produced in overseas countries because of the effect that environment has on the product. I want to go back and mention the referendum that  Senator O'Byrne  referred to. 1 recall that no referendum was held when this matter was first brought up. Ali that we had was a notice in the Commonwealth Gazette - I have a copy of it here - which was produced overnight. A statement was made in the House without any consultation with the wool industry, members of Parliament or anyone else. Let me refer now to the arguments referred to by Opposition supporters. It is proposed that the relaxation and the conditions attached to it will be reviewed annually. I made that point and no doubt  Senator Wilkinson  will draw to my attention, as he did during question time the other day, the fact that the Farmers Union in Western Australia at its recent conference passed a motion reversing the decision that it made 12 months ago. That is quite proper and the prerogative of the wool section of the Farmers Union. 
No. Twelve months ago, or even before that, this organisation had to take this decision to the Australian Wool and Meat Producers Federation and when the Minister announced that there would be a partial relaxation of this embargo he said that it would be reviewed annually. I believe that the wool section of the Farmers Union is now making its decision to be taken to the conference of the Australian Wool and Meat Producers Federation and eventually to the Australian Wool Industry Conference.I believe that it will say: 'We the representatives of the Farmers Union do not want to continue the partial relaxation of this ban.' 
Yes. 
Through the Australian Wool and Meat Producers Federation. 
What about  Mr Chance, Mr Bungey  and  Mr Pat  Moore? There are 3 of them.I came over with those 3 from Western Australia yesterday. There are 5 of them altogether. The relaxation and the conditions attached to it will be reviewed annually, which means that modifications or even a reversion to a complete ban could be sought by the Wool Industry Conference after the first 12 months. In the circumstances there would bc little merit in holding a referendum on proposals that are open to subsequent modification or withdrawal. As I told honourable senators, the Australian Wool Industry Conference is made up of representatives from 2 wool grower organisations in Australia which have 25 representatives each. I refer to the decision which was carried by a clear majority of 37 to 16, 12 months ago. Before the AWIC voted on the embargo it went to considerable pains to secure authoritative information and views on all aspects of the embargo. This material was circulated to wool grower organisations throughout Australia for consideration and subsequently the views and suggestions of these organisations were considered by the Conference. In the circumstances it is fair to say that the AWIC vote reflects the considered opinion of an adequate crosssection of growers. I will be the first to admit that during the debate in this place last time we did see a number of growers here who, to my mind, were not represented by any organisation at all. They showed their interest in the debate and where they stood by speaking to representatives from both sides of the Senate. 
Yes, I will acknowledge that. Now, with any referendum the question of voting qualifications must be determined. This could be very difficult to determine for any referendum on the merino embargo. For instance, the question arises whether all wool growers should be entitled to vote - irrespective of the breed of sheep they raise - or whether entitlement be confined to those who produce only or principally merino wool. Some wool growers produce merino wool exclusively, others merino wool as well as crossbred wool, while still others produce wool exclusively from nonmerino breeds such as Border Leicester, southdowns, corriedales and so on. There is also the case of producers for whom wool is a secondary consideration. I refer to fat lamb breeders. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Laucke)  - Order! The Minister's time has expired. 
The 
Minister for the Army has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
and (2) There are no subsidies paidto Australian rifle clubs. 
The information the honourable senator wants would have to be detailed because he did not say what load the aircraft would be carrying to travel the  900  miles. I will obtain a detailed reply giving the various loads and ranges of the aircraft. 
I dis.discussed this question only this morning with the Minister for Repatriation. I regret the delay that has occurred. The answer to the honourable senator's question must be cleared with another Department before it can be presented in the Senate. However, I have pointed out the period during which this question has been on the notice paper and am endeavouring to get a reply and present it as soon as possible. 
1 do not doubt for a moment that all those who have seen the report of yesterday's meeting of the Australian Wool Industry Conference will be very interested in it, even if they are only remotely connected with wool. I think the decision taken yesterday is a very significant one in regard to marketing reform, lt could be said that the delegates to yesterday's conference are deserving of great praise for the decision they have taken. However, 1 do not think that the rank and file members of the organisations that go to make up the Australian Wool and Meat Producers Federation and the Australian Woolgrowers and Graziers Council should be left out of this decision. I recall that about 12 years ago the Wool Section of the Farmers Union made a decision along similar lines. While I welcome this decision of the AWIC, 1 regret the delay that took place before it was reached. I have a personal interest because I chaired the meeting of the Wool Section of the Farmers Union that made the decision 12 years ago. [ hope that a submission will be made to the Government and that implementation of the decision will take place as quickly as possible. 
The 
Australian Wool Board has set up an advisory committee. One of its responsibilities is to investigate wool freight charges and the cost of conveying wool from the wool shed door to the manufacturer's door. I would think that the committee would inquire into the point raised by the honourable senator and perhaps at a later date we will have further information on it. 
-] would hope that the Government would accept the views of the Australian Wool Industry Conference as those of the whole of the industry because the Conference consists of 23 delegates from the Australian Wool and Meat Producers Federation and 25 delegates from the Australian Woolgrowers and Graziers Council - the 2 major Federal bodies in the wool industry. 
BROCKMAN - The 
Royal Australian Air Force and the Department of Supply still have representatives in America. These are collectively known as our project team. They are closely associated with the various tests being carried out following the wing failure which caused a fatal crash on 22nd December and also the general tests on the wing carry through box to which some publicity was given in the newspapers recently. As to the likelihood of a report to the Parliament, 1 understand that the Minister for Defence is hoping he can make such a report when we resume after next week's break. 
From lime to time I have seen the reports 10 which the honourable senator has referred. Those reports may be correct from an economic point of view or from the point of view of the writer but I think they overlook one thing, that is, the personal aspect of the man on the land. Many small properties have been handed down for a number of generations. The people concerned do not want to leave the land or to be told that they have to leave the land. The Government is mindful of that position and the Minister for Primary Industry is doing everything he can to see that those who want to stay on the land are allowed to do so. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has asked that I inform the honourable senator that some of the information requested is not immediately available. Enquiries are proceeding and he will provide an answer to the honourable senator when they have been completed. 
The Minister for the  Navy has  provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
No. The number of escape hatches hat never been in question. Emergency escape hatches augment the normal exit arrangements. 
Certain features of the Voyager Emergency escape hatch design (formerly RN Design) were unsatisfactory. A re-design has been developed and is being fitted in RAN vessels. 
Yes. Bass and Banks are built in accordance with merchant shipbuilding practice. Entry/  exits  as such are not fitted with watertight hatch covers and the escape facilities are considered adequate in accordance wilh merchant shipbuilding standard. 
The 
Minister for the Navy has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
There is a 16% shortage of trained engineroom staff in the Royal Austalian Navy. 
If the honourable senator would be more specific an answer will be provided. 
1 will direct the attention of the Minister for Primary Industry to the question asked by the honourable senator and obtain some information for the honourable senator. 
1 saw the statement, to which the honourable senator refers, but I cannot give him any specific date at this moment. I shall make it my duty to find out as soon as possible and to let the honourable senator know. 
 The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
The Minister for Labour and National Service did travel to Hobart recently in a VIP aircraft to take part in a debate at the University of Tasmania. 
The approval for the Minister for Labour and National Service to use a VIP aircraft was granted in accordance with the rules relating to the use of VIP aircraft. 
The Minister for the Navy has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The RAN subscribes to over 380 magazines and journals in such fields as science, technology, education, business administration, medicine, law and current affairs. The publications are distributed to appropriate ships and establishments and are made available to all personnel in reading rooms and libraries. 
Three Central Reference Libraries contain some 6,000 books of a reference nature. Catalogues are held in all ships and establishments and a mail-order borrowing system provides all personnel with access to these books. 
The importance of ensuring that all naval personnel are kept abreast of the latest developments in their specialisations is fully appreciated and every effort will continue to be made to achieve this. 
I would have to refer the matter raised by the honourable senator to the Minister for Repatriation. I shall do so, and I suggest that at the same time the honourable senator put the question on the notice paper. 
The Minister for Repatriation has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question. 
The projects at Repatriation General Hospital Heidelberg, to which the honourable  Senator referred,  are part of a continuing works programme to improve and modernise the facilities at all repatriation hospitals and takes into account the immediate and foreseeable treatment needs of eligible repatriation patients. 
Proposals for the widening of the present eligibility for in-patient treatment on the general lines implied in the honourable senator's question, have been submitted by ex-service organisations along with other proposals, and will be considered by the Government. 
The Minister for Repatriation has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Crew members of R.A.A.F. Hercules aircraft Hying on supply missions to Vietnamare not in the normal course, eligible for the benefits referred to by the honourable senator. 
The position is that any member of the Defence Forces who is allotted for special duty in a prescribed special area, is eligible for repatriation benefits under the Repatriation (Special Overseas Service) Act and a War Service Homes Loan under the War Service Homes Act. 
Allotment for special duty is the responsibility of the service departments concerned and my understanding is that under present arrangements, those crew members are not so allotted. 1 should explain, however, that the Repatriation (Special Overseas Service) Act does provide repatriation benefits for a member who, although not allotted for special duty, suffers incapacityor dies as a result of action by hostile forces while outside Australia. 
The establishment arrangements under the Defence (Re-establishment) Act, which include vocational training and agricultural and business loans are provided for National Servicemen only and are not therefore available to R.A.A.F. personnel. 
The Minister for Repatriation has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Representations have been made to me this year by the Totally and Permanently Disabled Soldiers Association in respect of several matters, one request having been for an increase in the Special (T  &amp;  P.I.) Rate of War Pension. It is customary for the Government to consider all such requests in connection with the annual Budget planning, and that course will be followed again this year. I can assure the honourable senator that I am keenly interested in ensuring the adequacy of War Pension rates and that the request of the Totally and Permanently Disabled Soldiers Association will be sympathetically considered at the appropriate time in the Budget context. 
The honorable senator would be the first to recognise that the many thousands of miles of Australian coastline would require a pretty formidable force to patrol intensively. He would also recognise that the Royal Australian Air Force has maritime units stationed on the east coast and on the south coast which penetrate far out to sea on patrols. Any sightings made by these aircraft are identified and reported either to the Royal Australian Navy or to the Department of Primary Industry as the case may be. However, I will take the matter up with the Minister for Primary industry and get him to look at the honourable senator's question. 
I cannot answer all of the honourable senator's question, but I can say that there has been a loss of pilots from the Royal Australian Air Force. This loss has concerned me since I have taken over the portfolio of Minister for Air. During the last 12 months we have lost 28 pilots, and these have been from the ranks of squadron leader and senior flight lieutenant. Of that  28, 18  have gone to various commercial airlines and  1$  have gone to the Department of Civil Aviation. The reason why pilots accepted employment in both these spheres was that they were offered higher pay and better insurance conditions. I do not know how many pilots at present have applied to leave the Air Force to go to the Department of Civil Aviation or to commercial operators. The Air Force has a good many applications for pilot training. Unfortunately, it takes a good deal of time and a great deal of expense to train pilots. 
1 think the honourable senator - in fact all honourable senators - will have seen from time to time the amounts of pay offered to commercial pilots, which are certainly away beyond those offered to RAAF pilots. However, there is a difference in pay between Department of Civil Aviation pilots and RAAF pilots, who both work really for the same- 
Yes, the same boss, if you like. In order to overcome this problem the Air Force - in fact all the Services have - has made representations to the Minister for Defence for an examination of pay and conditions generally. The Air Force has asked for an examination of flying pay in particular. A committee from the Department of Defence has been investigating pay and conditions for some time. I understand that it is nearing the end of its investigation. I am hoping that very shortly the Minister for Defence will be in a position to make an announcement to the Parliament. 
I know that Hobart has many attractions. I will certainly take the matter up with the Minister for the Navy and let the honourable senator have a reply when 1 receive it. 
I would agree that Australia's standards of hygiene are probably the highest in the world. In regard to the latter part of the honourable senators question, I made some inquiries from the Department of Primary Industry this morning and was informed that  Mr Anthony  was told by the United States Secretary for Agriculture,  Mr Hardoin  that there was deep concern at the high rejection rate of Australian mutton. Almost 1,000,000 lb had been rejected in the middle of April indicating that much of the mutton shipped by Australia was not meeting United States standards.  Mr Hardoin  said that there was severe criticism by Congress and the Senate and warned  Mr Anthony  that it would probably be necessary for him to take some action.  Mr Anthony  sent the Secretary of his Department to Washington to confer on the problem. The Secretary subsequently reported that it was inevitable that there would be a decision to place a temporary ban on the import of mutton from Australia until the general standards of hygiene and of mutton inspection in Australia came up to the United States standards. This announcement was made yesterday in Washington. The United States decision is that mutton produced in Australian meatworks after 15th May will not be eligible for export to America. Mutton packed before 15th May will not be affected. This restriction will remain in effect until the United States authorities are satisfied that Australian procedures comply with American standards.  Mr Anthony  has convened a meeting of the Meat Industry Advisory Committee in Canberra this Thursday to discuss the whole position. 
I do not have any doubt that the United States of America is entitled to place certain standards on the quality of mutton it imports. I do not know the reason for the present restrictions other than what I said in reply to a question asked earlier by  Senator Poyser.  I shall make inquiries and inform the honourable senator accordingly. 
Some time ago the honourable senator indicated to me his interest in this matter. I have obtained the following information: Because of the incidence of tick fever in cattle in Queensland, the New South Wales Government does not permit Queensland cattle to enter the tick quarantine area of New South Wales. The only exception is pedigree cattle which have originated in tick free areas of Queensland and which have undergone tests to ensure that they are not carrying tick fever organisms. Byron Bay is in the tick quarantine area whereas Tenterfield is not. Cattle carrying tick fever organisms which enter areas outside the New South Wales tick quarantine area in a tick free condition cannot transmit the disease in that area. However, if the cattle picked up ticks in a tick quarantine area these ticks could become infected and their progeny could transmit tick fever. As the restrictions imposed by New South Wales are intended to prevent the introduction of tick fever into the tick quarantine area there would appear to be no basis on which the Commonwealth could intercede. 
 The Minister for the Army has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The strength of the Regular Army including females, at 3 1st December 1963 was 22,145 comprised of 2,798 officers, 19,291 other ranks and 56 members of the Citizen Military Forces on full time duty. 
The then required strength of the regular army was 37,500. 
During the period 1960-1964 the pay rates for other ranks were adjusted from time to lime in line with movements in civil awards generally. In addition other ranks received a 10c per day increased in Service Loading and a new attraction allowance of 40c per day in June 1964. 


<graphic href="044232197005124_12_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="044232197005124_13_0.jpg"></graphic>

by leave - In making this statement, I should explain that where the wordI is used, it means the Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  The statement is as follows: 
My purpose tonight is to report on the results of the recent mission which I led to the United States of America to discuss with Secretary Laird and his  Deputy  Secretary Packard and other Defence officials, problems concerning F111 aircraft and the need for Australia to get into its inventory a strike bomber. Honourable members will recall that subsequent to discussions I had with  Dr J.  L. McLucas, the Under Secretary of the United States Department of the Air Force, in December last year and taking account of further unanimous advice provided to mc by the members of the July 1969 Bland Mission to the United States; the Government decided and 1 announced on 5th December that we were sufficiently satisfied that we had protection in regard to the wing carry through box problem and that we would be reactivating our 24 FI 1 1C aircraft with a view to bringing them to Australia at an early date. 
As honourable members know, the crash of an FI IIA aircraft on 22nd December revealed a whole new problem area based on the behaviour under stress of D6ac steel which is used extensively and critically in the aircraft. This additional and major problem, made it necessary in our judgement, to reconsider our whole approach to the project and to look for the renegotiation of certain fundamental aspects of our agreements with the  United  States concerning our purchase of 24 FI 1 1 C aircraft. As a result, 1 was directed by the Government to pursue these questions in direct negotiation with the United States Administration. My discussions were wide ranging and, in addition to Secretary Laird and his Deputy Secretary Packard, 1 and members of my delegation negotiated with Department of Air Force Secretary Seamans, the United States Air Force Chief of Staff General Ryan, Lieutenant General Glasser and other officials. As a result of these discussions I was able to reach certain agreements with Secretary Laird, and I am tabling the Agreed Minute signed jointly by Secretary Laird and myself. This Agreed Minute as it will be tabled is incomplete only in respect of certain operational and technical criteria which are classified and cannot be disclosed. 
In the course of my remarks tonight 1 will seek to describe the problems surrounding the FI II programme, the nature of the decisions the Government has so far made, and their consequences for Australia. J will also seek to describe the role that we believe a strike bomber needs to be able to fill. I will mention the importance that we attach to that role and the importance, in consequence, that we attach to the development of an adequate strike capability for the Royal Australian Air Force. 
Implications of the Memorandum of Understanding and Technical Arrangement 
I want  to  begin by referring to the original Memorandum  of  Understanding signed in October 1963 and the associated Technical Arrangement signed in June 1964. These 2 documents are amongst those which were tabled in this Parliament in September, 1968. Honourable members who studied these documents closely will be aware that their broad intention was that the United States Air Force should specify to the contractor, and control the development of, an aircraft with a very high operational capability. At that time we were confident that the aircraft would satisfy Australia's requirements because those requirements were fully encompassed by the capability then being pursued by the United States Air Force. Honourable members will also see that the practical effect of these documents was that, taken together, they gave the United States the overriding authority to modify or downgrade the aircraft's specifications if for some reason it felt that it became necessary or unavoidable. It followed that, when the United States authorities did this, Australia was bound to accept any aircraft delivered in accordance with such downgraded specification, provided of course similar aircraft were accepted by the United States Air Force. 
In other words these 2 documents gave Australia no assurance against degradation of performance. When the documents were first signed, the RAAF felt there was a negligible risk in saying that planes suitable for USAF would be acceptable to Australia. It had confidence in the ability of the United States - with its unsurpassed achievements in aeronautical science and technology - lo translate the design concept into an aircraft of uniquely high performance entirely suitable for Australia's needs. No other aircraft embodies such highly developed and proven technological equipment to ensure the delivery of its weapons precisely on target day or night; and there is no other aircraft which can equal the Fill in its designed ability to carry a heavy weapon load over such a wide radius of action and penetrate the most sophisticated enemy defences under any weather conditions. 
The manufacturer encountered a series of problems, of which honourable members are aware, and this experience has given the RAAF cause for concern that the performance may be so downgraded that the aircraft would not be able to perform strike missions with the load, range and penetration called for by our Chiefs of Staff. The design was a venture - as all great technological advances require - into new fields of aircraft design and novel material applications and new aspects of metallurgy. 
As honourable members well know, problems were encountered which set the development back and there are today doubts as to the ultimate form that the technological solution will take and, most importantly for the RAAF, there are doubts about the timetable in which these solutions might be found and satisfactory aircraft actually delivered. Events have demonstrated that the difficulties encountered were greater than expected and led to a downgrading in performance. In addition, there was a further major financial implication in the original documents. Australia was given no financial protection in the event of the aircraft failing to reach the performance capability needed by Australia. The United States view has been that both governments went into the development of this new aircraft together and that we should each be responsible for our own investment. This would mean, of course, that if Australia for any reason was unable to take delivery of its FI 1 1 aircraft, we could lose our total investment. Our acceptance of this position would have confirmed our obligations to those documents and would have stated that the limit of the responsibilities of each party extended only to its own respective investment and to its agreed obligations. In short, if General Dynamics failed to produce an effective aircraft, we would lose our Australian expenditure without remedy beyond any which the United States could pursue on behalf of both of us with the company. This then was the Australian position and the extent of our rights as they existed prior to my visit to the United States. 
I am not aware of the situation to which the honourable senator has referred. I certainly will take it up with the Minister for the Army and let the honourable senator have a reply. 
I well recall the statement  Senator Wriedt  read out. This belief is firmly held by the Air Force. The Fill aircraft was ordered in the first place to replace the Canberra bomber, and that is the bomber which is acting as our strike aircraft at the present time. 
-It is true that an evaluation team has left Australia. It is headed by the Deputy Chief of the Air Staff in the Royal Australian Air Force and he is assisted by the Assistant Secretary, Finance, and a number of other specialist officers of the Department of Air. I will not know the cost of the trip until they have returned. 
 The funds authorised to date in the Fill project are $US252m, of which $US230m has been paid. The final price for the project will not be available until after the delivery of the aircraft. A close examination is to be made by the Department of Air of the methodology of pricing with the United States Air Force to determine the agreed methodology for final pricing. There could be some additional costs over and above what I have said because of the spare parts which we may have received up to date but which we have not paid for. 
BROCKMAN - 
Cheese imports in 1968-69 were 25% above the imports in 1967-68. The imports are from a number of countries. Some of the countries do impose import restrictions on Australian dairy produce. The problems concerning cheese imports were discussed at a meeting in September of last year between the Minister for Trade and Industry, the Minister for Primary Industry and representatives of the Australian Dairy Industry Council. It was decided that a panel of industry representatives and departmental officers should be formed to make a full examination of the problems concerning cheese imports and the need for the establishment of a fancy cheese industry in Australia on a firm basis. When the results of the examination by this panel become known I will pass them on to the honourable senator. 
Fill AIRCRAFT 
I certainly will take up the matter with the Minister for Primary Industry but I should not think that pay and conditions would be the problem behind the shortage of meat inspectors, if that be the case.  1  am well aware of the submissions made by meat employees unions in the past in regard to these matters. However, I have noted from time to time that when peaks are reached through drought conditions or an excess in killing there is a shortage of meat workers. 
The matter of charges for storage in which the honourable senator and his colleague  Senator Toohey  have been very interested for some months is still under negotiation with the United States Department of Defense. I cannot say when we will get some finality on this question. In regard to the cost of specialists going to the United States, this figure is not known to me at this stage. What was the honourable senator's third question? 
I do not know at this stage, but if there is a figure which I can give to the honourable senator 1 shall obtain it for him and give it to him. 
Fill AIRCRAFT 
The 
Royal Australian Air Force sought a replacement for the Canberra bomber in 1963. Now the Canberra bomber is 7 years older. So I think the honourable senator will realise that whatever version of the Canberra bomber we may have, it must be nearing the end of its life. For this reason, I do not think that the Canberra bomber could continue to be used as the strike aircraft which the RAAF requires at the present time. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Yes. I am advised that the vessels were there without the knowledge or approval of either the owners or the South African Government. 
As the vessels were fishing in waters outside the 12-miles declared fishing zone, the permission of the Commonwealth Government was not required. Nevertheless as soon as the presence of these vessels was reported an immediate approach for their withdrawal was made to the South African Embassy. Because the vessels were operating in the fishery for such a short period and there is virtually no possibility of further South African vessels fishing in the area, a reduction in the number of Australian vessels permitted in the fishery has not been considered. 
With the co-operation of the South African authorities, the vessels departed from Fremantle on 27th March 1970. 
The Western Australian fisheries authorities maintain a number of patrol vessels which operate inside territorial waters, in the declared fishing zone and in the waters beyond these limits. Under an arrangement between the Commonwealth and the States, officers engaged in these patrols are authorised to act as officers under the Commonwealth Fisheries Act. There is one RAN Patrol Boat based at Fremantle for Reserve Training and this commitment precludes the possibility of this vessel carrying out fishery patrol duties. The long-term aspects of fisheries patrolling are currently under study by an Interdepartmental Committee and the Government will consider its recommendations in due course. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Oysters are cultivated extensively in the estuarine systems notably in Georges River, Port Stephens, Wallis Lake and the Hawkesbury River in New South Wales, and to a lesser extent in estuarine areas in Queensland and Tasmania. As such, the fisheries are the responsibility of the States and I suggest you direct your enquiries to the authorities concerned. 
The Acting Minister for Primary Industry has supplied the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Total assistance for the dairy industry with respect to the financial year 1969-70 is estimated at $50,284,000, made up as follows: 

<graphic href="044232197005135_14_0.jpg"></graphic>

I understand that recently a number of meat works lost their licences to export meat to the market in the United States of America. I understand the reason is that United States inspectors walked into these works - which they have a right to do, and which they do from time to time - and found that certain facilities within these meat works were not up to the standards required for the market in the United States. The Minister for Primary Industry was then requested to cease the exporting of meat to the United States from these works until the complaints had been rectified. 1 understand that this is a temporary measure and that as soon as the complaints are rectified the works concerned will be quite free to go on exporting meat to the United States market. I should point out that about 20% of Australia's export mutton sales is exported to the United States. So although these works may temporarily lose their licences to export to the United States market there is no reason why they should not be able to go on exporting to other markets. 
I will take the matter up with the Minister for Primary Industry and obtain an answer for the honourable senator as soon as I can. 
I will ask the Minister for Primary Industry to examine the matter to which the honourable senator has drawn  my  attention. I will pass on the reply to the honourable senator. 
The Royal Australian Air Force consists of 3 parts, namely the permanent Air Force, the Citizen Air Force and the Air Force emergency force. The Citizen Air Force comprises 2 active elements, namely, the Citizen Air Force auxiliary squadrons and the RAAF university squadrons. The Citizen Air Force auxiliary squadrons are stationed in Perth, Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane, that is, in each State capital city, and their job is to train a proportion of men for ground crew duties in the event of war. As to the details of these various squadrons, I do not have them at my fingertips but I will make it my job to find out and let the honourable senator know. 
In my portfolio as Minister for Air it is my responsibility to operate, on behalf of the Prime Minister, the VIP Flight. I operate the Flight according to regulations that have been set down. In the case of the particular member to whom the honourable senator referred, he approached me- 
I mean  Mr Whitlam.  He approached me in the normal way for permission to go to New Guinea and to take certain passengers. That was outside my responsibility and I asked  Mr Whitlam  to write to the Prime Minister setting out his case and seeking the Prime Minister's permission.  Mr Whitlam  did that and later the Prime Minister wrote to me saying that he had given  Mr Whitlam  permission to go to New Guinea and to take certain passengers. 
In regard to the changes in the regulations governing use of the VIP Flight, both my predecessor and I have made submissions to the Prime Minister. My submissions are still under consideration. When they are finalised I will inform the Senate. 
I will accept the proposition that very many meat works are endeavouring to bring their facilities up to a very high standard of hygiene. Whilst not all meat works are able to do this, I believe that an effort is being made by most of them. In regard to the practices of those meat works that are exporting to the American market, I believe that the American inspectors have an obligation to walk in and see whether the hygiene standard required by the American market is being observed. Where an abattoir does not come up to the standard the Department of Primary Industry is asked to cease temporarily exports from that abattoir until the trouble - it may be only a small matter - is rectified. The works may be off the export market for only a matter of a day or some weeks. As I pointed out earlier, the American export market for mutton represents only 20% of the total export mutton market. So, despite the fact that an abattoir ceases to export to America there is no reason why it cannot export to other markets that it may have. 
1 do not know about knowing or verifying as correct all the reports that  Senator Lillico  has read, but I shall certainly take the matter up with the Minister for Primary Industry and seek some information from him. 
It is quite likely that the honourable senator did not see butter mentioned in the particular advertisement to which he refers because butter is usually included in a combined tender schedule for dairy produce, comprising eggs, butter, meat and so on. But 1 can allay any fears that the honourable senator may have by informing him that it is the policy of the RAAF to use butter on mess tables at bases at all times. Margarine is used only for cooking cakes, sweets, sauces and so on, or for training in cooking. I know that  Senator Wheeldon,  who is trying to interject, addressed a question to me some weeks ago about this matter. To allay his fears, 1 made very sure that the Air Force did use butter. I had a look at the total quantity which it used. The statistics show that in the last 12 months the Air Force used 263,657 lb of butter at all mainland bases, as against only 61,821 lb of margarine. 
I am quite sure that the Canadian Prime Minister has his own problems with the present wheat situation, because Canada has some 900 million bushels of wheat in store. But no doubt the Australian Prime Minister and the Minister for Primary Industry, together with the Minister for Trade and Industry, will be talking to the Canadian Prime Minister. 
I think that this question more rightly should have been addressed to the Minister representing the Treasurer, but I shall take up the matter raised by the honourable senator with the Minister for Primary Industry, and no doubt he will consult the Treasurer on it. 
If the Phantoms were accepted they could land at most operational airstrips in Australia at present. Certain ground equipment would be needed to facilitate their operations. At present an evaluation team is in America seeking details of how much it would cost to accept the Phantoms. When that team returns the information will be put before the Government. 
I have an answer to a question without notice which was asked by  Senator McClelland  on 12th March. The question was in these terms: 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Has the Minister seen a report attributable to the senior lecturer in Biology at the University of Sydney that it is believed powerful insecticide sprays, superphosphates or weedicides caused the death of hundreds of fish in a creek near Ballina in northern New South Wales, that a similar mass killing had taken place in the Tweed River in northern New South Wales and that if the present situation continues pollution by insecticides, detergents and washings from dairying and other country industries will evenutally foul up our rivers and seriously affect the future of the Australian fishing industry? Has the Minister also seen a report that a research team from the University of New South Wales was forced to abandon its investigation into this matter because of lack of funds? Because so many people are completely dependent on the fishing industry for their livelihood and so many country towns in northern New South Wales rely to a very great extent on a reasonably prosperous fishing industry for their existence and development, will the Minister investigate this matter urgently and request his officers to contact the research team from the University of New South Wales and the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Organisation to see what steps can now be taken to preserve this very vital industry? 
The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The report referred to in your question of 12th March, 1970, has been thoroughly investigated. The conclusion reached is that there is no definite evidence that agricultural chemicals or fertilizers were responsible for the death of the fish in the Tweed and Richmond Rivers and associated creeks. 
Research being conducted by the University of Queensland shows that fish from the Brisbane, Mary, and Tweed Rivers contain minute traces of residues of a number of pesticides. This however, is. more a measure of the sensitivity of analytical techniques than an indication of potential danger to fish. It is possible that the low residues in these fish could come from industrial or domestic sewerage effluent as well as from agricultural pest control activities. 
The levels of residues delected are considerably below those known to be safe to wildlife, including fish. 
Unfortunately, it is not possible for diagnoses to be made to determine the factors responsible for the death of the fish in the estuaries of the Tweed and Richmond Rivers. To make a correct diagnosis the scientists must be able to visit the area where and when mortality is occurring. 
Advice has been received that the University of New South Wales has no plans for the reported investigations. It is understood that there was a suggestion by a lecturer in micro-biology at the Sydney University that funds be provided foran investigation on herbicide residues, but this has no connectionwith fish because herbicides are not dangerous to fish. State legislation provides for the control of testing and the sale of herbicides. 
Test have been carried out over a number of years by the State Departments of Fisheries and Wildlife and it is understood that these are being extended as staff and facilities make such possible. 
I will take this question up with the Minister for Primary Industry and see what information is available. If I can make a statement to the Senate I will do so. 
I do not have this information at my finger tips. I will make it my job to obtain it. 1 shall inform the honourable senator accordingly. 
MRS THELMA McAVOY 
I do not know all (he details necessary to reply to the honourable senator's question, but I understand that the United States authorities have repeatedly given the assurance that the standards of slaughtering and inspection facilities' required of countries exporting mutton to the United States are the same as those that apply federally to the inspection of meat works in the United States. I understand that the requirements necessary to pass meat inspection in the United States of America are the same as those that are applicable in Australia. 
Under the regulations governing the use of VIP aircraft as announced by the late  Senator McKellar  in this place, I think in May last year, there is no provision for senators other than Ministers to travel on VIP aircraft. There has not been any change to date in the regulations. 

There was a departure when one senator sought permission from the Prime Minister on a particular occasion and permission to travel was granted. 
I heard the honourable senator ask that same question 12 months ago. 
1 said that the practice had been departed from in the case of one senator. In regard to the latter part of the question, certain VIP aircraft were made available to Ministers last Friday night under the regulations governing the use of the aircraft. Owing to certain unforeseen circumstances - the late hour and no commercial flights being available - some people were given permission to travel on these aircraft. There was no discrimination such as  Senator Gair  tried to indicate in his question. 
The latest information I have is that the Meat Industry Advisory Committee has formed a sub-committee to consider ways and means by which all concerned with the Australian meat industry can adjust to the requirements of the United States of America. The subcommittee will meet in Sydney on Friday. It will report back to the Meat Industry 
Advisory Committee next Monday. I would like to take this opportunity to refer to a question which  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack, 1 think, asked of trie the other day in regard to the organisms which have been found in certain meat which has led to a temporary ban on our exports to the United States of America. I understand that these organisms are not harmful to human beings. 1 have this on the authority of the Department of Primary Industry. I mention it here to quell any fears which may be in the minds of honourable senators and the general public in Australia. 
The honourable senator has asked mc a series of questions on this matter and I have sought information from the Minister for Primary Industry. 
So far I have not had answers to those questions. I will take the matter up again with the Minister for Primary Industry and convey the answer to the honourable senator. 
The  answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
In April 1964 the Royal Australian Air Force appointed an F111 Project Officer in the United States. The F111 Project Officer works in close consultation with the United States Air Force F111 Project Office and has been kept informed of developments relating to the F111C. 
I have an answer to a question without notice which was asked by  Senator McClelland  on 12th March. The question was in these terms: 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Has the Minister seen a report attributable to the senior lecturer in Biology at the University of Sydney that it is believed powerful insecticide sprays, superphosphates or weedicides caused the death of hundreds of fish in a creek near Ballina in northern New South Wales, that a similar mass killing had taken place in the Tweed River in northern New South Wales and that if the present situation continues pollution by insecticides, detergents and washings from dairying and other country industries will eventually foul up our rivers and seriously affect the future of the Australian fishing industry? Has the Minister also seen a report that a research team from the University of New South Wales was forced to abandon its investigation into this matter because of lack of funds? Because so many people are completely dependent on the fishing industry for their livelihood and so many country towns in northern New South Wales rely to a very great extent on a reasonably prosperous fishing industry for their existence and development, will the Minister investigate this matter urgently and request bis officers to contact the research team from the University of New South Wales and the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation to see what steps can now be taken to preserve this very vital industry? 
The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The report referred to in your question ot I Gin March 1970, has been thoroughly investigated. The conclusion reached is thai (here is no definite evidence that agricultural chemicals or fertilisers were responsible for the death of the fish in the Tweed and Richmond Rivers and associated creeks. 
Research being conducted by the University of Queensland shows that fish from (he Brisbane, Mary and Tweed Rivers contain minute traces of residues of a number of pesticides. This however, is more a measure of the sensitivity of analytical techniques than an indication of potential danger to fish. It is possible that the low residues in these fish could come from industrial or domestic sewerage effluent as well as from agricultural pest control activities. 
The levels of residues detected are considerably below those known to be safe to wildlife, including fish. 
Unfortunately, it is not possible for diagnoses to be made to determine the factors responsible for the death of the fish in the estuaries of the Tweed and Richmond Rivers. To make a correct diagnosis the Scientists must be able to visit the area where and when mortality is occurring. 
Advice has been received that the University of N.S.W. has no plans for the reported investigations. It is understood that there was a suggestion by a lecturer in micro-biology at the Sydney University that funds be provided for an investigation on herbicide residues, hut this has no connection with fish because herbicides arc not dangerous to fish. Slate legislation provides for the control of testing and the sale of herbicides. 
Tests have been carried out over a number of years by the State Departments of Fisheries and Wildlife and it is understood that these are being extended as staff and facilities make such possible. 
On Thursday, 14th May,  Senator Rae  asked me a question without notice on the activities of the active reserve of the Royal Australian Air Force and the Citizen Air Force. I gave a preliminary answer to this question and advised the honourable senator that I would expand on that answer when I had studied the matter fully. I am now in a position to do so. As I previously indicated in my preliminary answer, apart from the Permanent Air Force, there is also a Citizen Air Force and the Air Force Emergency Reserve. These two components supply the RAAF with a reserve of trained personnel that can be called upon in times of war or defence emergency. The Citizen Air Force consists of two active elements - the Citizen Air Force Auxiliary Squadrons and the RAAF University Squadrons, and an inactive element known as the RAAF Reserve. The 5 Citizen Air Force Auxiliary Squadrons are manned predominantly by CAF personnel who undertake part-time training under the supervision of a small permanent Air Force staff. Members of the CAF Auxiliary Squadrons are required to enrol1 for a period of 2 years followed by  a  further 5 years on the RAAF Reserve. They are required to do a minimum of 32 days training per year, including a training camp of 14 days, and must reach and maintain a satisfactory standard of proficiency in their category or mustering. Each Citizen Air Force Squadron is affiliated with an operational squadron in the RAAF with which it trains and exercises. 
The RAAF University Squadrons train potential officers for the Citizen Air Force. Six squadrons exist, one in each State. University Squadron cadets are required to undertake 56 days service training in 2 years, and of this, 14 days each year should be served continuously at Air Force Units with the balance being covered by attendance at lectures, bivouacs and home training parades. 
The RAAF Reserve - the inactive element of the CAC - provides a pool of preselected officers and airmen whose services can be obtained if required to augment the Permanent Air Force in war. There is no liability on Reserve members for any form of training. However, members may be permitted to attend RAAF Units for instructional purposes on a voluntary unpaid basis. Finally there is the Air Force Emergency Force. The purpose of this force is to augment the Permanent Air Force in time of war or in time of defence emergency or in circumstances considered necessary as proclaimed by the Governor-General. Members of the Emergency Force are required to serve for a period of 4 years, and are required to render Air Force service not exceeding 14 days in any one year. 
Reference the second part of the honourable senator's question concerning the contact maintained between the RAAF and the members of the Reserve, I have already indicated the extent of training or duty required by the members of the active elements of the part-time Air Force. In the case of the RAAF Reserve, reservists are required to notify my Department each year of their address, general health and any change in physical condition which might render them unfit for further service. 
However, it is important to note that approximately 250 reservists serve on parttime duty with the Permanent Air Force. 
The 
Royal Australian Air Force firmly believes that a strike and reconnaissance capability is an essential element in a balanced defence force. 

Please wait a minute. I repeat that it is an essential element in a balanced defence force in Australia. The RAAF firmly believes that this capability is to be found in the FI 1 1 aircraft. One of its reasons for this belief is the fact that the Fill does not need to be refuelled in the air. 
 The Minister  for  the  Army  has provided the following answer  to  the honourable senator's question: 
It  is  true that the majority of applications for resignation  of  commission by officers of the Army emanate from officers of the rank of  Major and  Captain. For the period 1 January to 17 April 1970, the average monthly rate for all officers  is  approximately  13.  This figure represents approximately  . 3%  monthly wastage rate of the total officer strength  of 4373.  While this wastage  is  not abnormally high in relation to industry or the public service, it  is  higher than earlier years and has been causing some concern. 
There are a number  of  reasons why officers resign. While some of these reasons are inseparable from the nature of service life other areas are currently under examination by the Defence (Conditions of Service) Committee. 
Yesterday  Senator Young  asked me the following question: 
What are the names of the meatworks affected by the United States ban on imports of Australian mutton? 
The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer: 
We do not disclose the names of firms taken off the United States list of approved exporters. There are two reasons: One, 76 abattoirs are licensed to export mutton but it is not known how many were actually affected by the United States ban although all licences were revoked temporarily from 14th May. More importantly, the Department of Primary Industry does not think it is right to publicise the names of abattoirs. In cases where the difficulty is only minor, it would be quite unfair to 'brand'  a  firm. 
On Thursday 14th May, during a debate on the Estate Duty Assessment Bill  Senator Webster  asked me whether the amendments could be incorporated in the Department of Primary Industry booklet on tax concessions. The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer: 
An edition of this booklet was issued quite recently, and a revised edition would not normally come out for some time. However, it may be necessary for some consideration to be given to revising the booklet earlier than usual, or to finding some other means of making the information available to farmers. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senators question: 
The allocation of wheat delivery quotas in any State is entirely a matter for the individual State. Any changes in quotas for the 1970-71 season and any adjustments attributable to shortfalls in deliveries from the 1969-70 harvest will be made under State laws. The relevant provisions of those laws differ from State to State and their interpretation and application are not matters for the Commonwealth. 
We have not received any reports yet from the evaluation team, if you like to call it that, which has gone to the United States. I do not expect to receive any reports until the team returns to Australia and makes a full report to myself and the Minister for Defence who then will take it to Cabinet.  After  Cabinet has discussed the matter a report no doubt will be made to the Parliament. 
I could not indicate that at this stage. 
-BROCKM AN- Discussions on the scheme to which the honourable senator has referred have been going on for a great length of time. The Minister for Primary Industry has met representatives from the Stales on many occasions in an endeavour to reach some finality on this scheme. So far the only State that has indicated that it is at all willing to go on with the scheme is Western Australia.I am quite sure that the Minister would be willing to meet representatives from Queensland and New South Wales. I know that he has already met New South Wales Ministers on a number of occasions. But I shall take the matter up with him and try to obtain some information for the honourable senator. 
The answer  is  no. As I told the Senate earlier in the week, the Meat Industry Advisory Committee last week set up  a  sub-committee to look at  all  immediate problems in regard to the mutton ban. The sub-committee will meet in Sydney on Friday and will report to the Meat Industry Advisory Committee next Monday. It is hoped that some of the works will be restored to the United States list fairly quickly, but at this stage it is not possible to forecast the exact time when that will happen. In order to be restored to the list the works, first of  all,  must be inspected by inspectors from the Department of Primary Industry who must then certify to the inspectors from the United States Department of Agriculture that the works are up to a certain standard. Then, should the works pass those inspectors, they are put up for relisting. 
I did see this report from Perth. It arose out of a statement made by the Minister for Primary Industry last year in which he indicated the Commonwealth's interest in this matter. I had a talk with the Minister this morning and he informed me that following a series of discussions with the Australian Agricultural Council the Commonwealth Government has agreed to support State efforts in the eradication of these diseases to the extent of$4.lm for the 3 years beginning on 1st January last. The Commonwealth will match the combined expenditure of the mainland States for this purpose. Tasmania receives special consideration because the 2 diseases virtually have been eradicated there. All States have indicated their acceptance of this arrangement. 
The national brucellosis and tuberculosis committee, which is heading the nationwide campaign, will recommend the amounts to be allocated to each State out of the Commonwealth's matching fund. These will be approved by the Standing Committee on Agriculture. The amount approved for the period from 1st January last to 30th June is $1.1m. The method of Commonwealth distribution is that the States will first spend out of their own resources what they are obliged to spend under the programme. Close to the time of a State's money running out the Commonwealth will make available the full approved amount for that State for the periods mentioned. Funds already have been provided for Western Australia and South Australia. 
I understand that (he Australian Meat Board does employ the legal firm of Clifford, Warnke, Glass, Mcllwain and Finney, which was appointed by the Board as legal representative and adviser to ensure that the Board and the Australian meat industry are kept fully informed of all legislation brought before the United States Congress, and to put the industry's view before the United States representatives. I understand also that this legal firm does not concern itself with hygiene and inspection matters which are of concern at the present time. It is there purely as the legal representative and adviser of the Meat Board. 

 - Senator Devitt asked me a question last Tuesday seeking information from the Minister for Primary Industry in regard to the ban on mutton exports to the United States. I have obtained the following information from the Minister: 
All 76 meat works licensed by the Australian Government to export mutton to the United States were forbidden to export mutton to America from 14th May last. 
It is hoped that some works wilt be restored to the United Stales list fairly quickly, but it is not possible to forecast exactly when this will happen. 
The works must first be inspected by inspectors from the Department of Primary Industry who then make a recommendation to the U.S.A. inspectors, who then inspect the works before relisting them for participation in export to the American market. 
The ban has been imposed due to impurities which have been detected in the mutton going to the United States. These impurities have included such things as wool, hair and similar foreign . matter as well as organisms which the Americans object to, but which are harmless to humans. These organisms are caseus lymph adenitis and cysticercus ovis. For short, they can be called C.I..A. and C-ovis. 
-BROCKM AN - The honourable senator yesterday asked me for some information on this matter. I was not able then to give him any details. 1 have checked the position and have learned that the evaluation team is hoping to come home on Sunday week.It then hopes to make a report to me and to the Minister for Defence. The Minister for Defence is hoping to have the information before Cabinet by about the middle of June. 
This is obviously a decision for the Minister for Primary Industry. I shall take the matter up with him and obtain what information I can for the honourable senator. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a first time. Debate (on motion by  Senator Poyser)  adjourned. 
 I move: 
That the  Bill  be now read a  second time. 
With the concurrence of honourable senators I incorporate in Hansard my second reading speech. It is as follows: 
In introducing this legislation to create an Australian Industry Development Corporation the Government believes - indeed is firmly convinced - that it has taken a significantly new and important initiative for the development of Australia, and for greater Australian ownership of our industries and resources. That there is a need for positive and effective action by Government in these fields is patently dear. No one could doubt that there is throughout the. community a strong national desire that means could be found to devise and put into effect a consistent policy which would be directed towards both maximising our industrial development and maximising Australian participation in it. That there are great opportunities for industrial development is equally evident. We have in Australia a solidly established industrial base - an industrial sector ready, willing, and with the technological capacity to expand in the more sophisticated spheres of manufacturing and production for world markets. We have also, in our vast new mineral wealth, an abundance of some of the most competitively priced industrial raw materials in the world. 
The opportunities are there, to be grasped. There is every reason to believe that a bright industrial future lies ahead. We must not fail to do everything possible to ensure that as much as possible of the fruits of this development will accrue to Australian and not foreign hands. We must ensure that Australians themselves will have a very real stake in the ownership and control of this country's industrial destiny. The instrument which the Government has devised to assist Australian private enterprise in attaining these objectives is a novel one, and in many ways unique. It is tailored to the needs, and the opportunities, and the circumstances of our economy. It is designed to fit in with and complement the role of existing institutions, and above all, to be entirely in keeping with the principles and practices of our free enterprise society. The objectives which I have set will not be pursued by means of regulation or control, as done in other countries. The Government is firmly determined to preserve entirely in Australia the free enterprise system. It will not institute regulatory or restrictive measures which hamper business and deter investment and development. 
Instead, it is the intention of this Bill to set up a new facility, which will have the role of fostering the objectives I have spoken of by its capacity to offer a new and unique service to Australian companies which come to it for the special kind of assistance it is designed to provide. The Australian Industry Development Corporation will have no. authority whatever for regulation or coercion. ' It will have no power to participate in a development except where its assistance is sought. But it will be in a position to assist an Australian company, which seeks its services, to undertake an important industrial venture and to secure in it more Australian and less foreign ownership in the development than would otherwise have been the case. Its assistance will be available to Australian companies, whether operating alone or in conjunction with foreign partners, in industrial projects of importance to the economy of Australia and the Australian balance of payments. It will assist only commercially viable ventures, or ventures which have the clear potential and prospect of commercial viability. In every case, it will have the aim of maximising development and maximising the degree of Australian participation in the ownership and control. 
The desire to secure greater Australian ownership of industries and resources is by no means a matter merely of national sentiment. It is a matter of hard economic realities, and the realities of commercial life. The interests of great industrial companies from overseas, investing and operating in Australia, may frequently coincide with our own interests. But it is increasingly clear that they do not always so coincide, and that decisions taken in the boardroom of a foreign industrial giant can often conflict with what is best for Australian development. The facts of foreign ownership in the great mineral ventures, and in many of our important manufacturing industries are well known. Foreign ownership of the order of 50% to 75% is common in major areas of the manufacturing sector, and in some cases the percentage is much higher than this. 
The side effects of excessive foreign ownership are not always conducive to development and expansion of industrial enterprises in Australia, to the stage where they would be competitive with overseas parent companies in the markets of the world. Indeed, there are known to be many hundreds of cases where, by franchise limitations, companies in Australia which are subsidiaries of overseas companies are restricted in whole or in part as to where they are permitted to export their products. There are again cases where a subsidiary company may not sell in nearby markets at a price below that at which a distant parent could market there. 
Mineral discoveries are providing a wonderful new source of foreign exchange earnings, from the export of raw materials in their natural form or after some primary processing. These resources are of course, more vast than Australian secondary industries could themselves use, and the export of basic minerals means the benefit of cheap industrial inputs for overseas industry and of valuable export earnings for Australia. There should, however, be increasing opportunity for upgraded and manufactured products originating from our own natural resources to find a worthwhile and growing acceptance in the markets of the world. The result would be. greatly enhanced earnings of foreign exchange. Where a mineral or mineral processing venture is predominantly foreign owned, and indeed wherever an effective Australian voice is lacking in the Boardroom, it is by no means evident that the full potential for upgrading and manufacture within Australia will be realised. Elsewhere in the Australian industrial sector - in the production of more highly fabricated manufactured products - the familiar pattern is that industry is not lacking in technological capacity but has not the size of industrial unit and size of market to achieve the economies of scale for production on a world competitive basis. 
Whether in mineral-based industry or in other manufacturing we must aim to achieve in Australia a new industrial structure with undertakings of world standards of efficiency and competitiveness, able to prosper and grow without recourse to unduly high tariff protection. If we can do this we will achieve the best in industrial development - with a lower cost structure at home and a new strength, in our balance of payments from a growing contribution by the industrial sector to our export earnings. But developments such as I have envisaged here call for massive capital investment. It is in general beyond the capacity of Australian companies to finance such expansion from their own internal resources, or even from funds which they may be able to borrow in Australia in competition with foreign companies backed by the credit of powerful' overseas parents. The annual inflow of capital from abroad, attracted here by the remarkable investment opportunities, has in recent years passed the $ 1,000m mark: Though running at more modest levels in the current year. it was. in each of the past 2 years, at a level of about $ 1,200m a year, double that of 4 or 5 years ago. 
This capital is contributing importantly to the financing of development. It is a valuable supplement to scarce local capital resources. But it of course, brings with it commitments as well as benefits. And it is a simple truism that, where funds come in from abroad in equity form, they create  a  commitment in servicing the investment to which there is no end. The cost of servicing overseas investment in Australia is a growing liability in the balance of payments. In the past few years there has been a noticeable quickening in the pace. The earnings of foreign investors in Australia are growing faster than the capacity of export earnings to meet these commitments. The returns on equity investment - either remitted or retained and thereby creating further commitments for the future - are a major element in these figures. Five years ago, in 1964-65, income earned by overseas companies from direct private investment in Australia amounted to $250m of 9.7% of export earnings. By last year, 1968-69, the figure had grown to $493m, or 15.3% of export earnings. I emphasise that the figures I am quoting refer only to income payable overseas on direct private investment by overseas companies in their subsidiaries or branches in Australia. The figures exclude entirely dividends payable on portfolio investment. They exclude interest on loans from overseas financial institutions. They exclude royalties payable under franchise arrangements, and any other forms of property income payable overseas. The figures relate only to remitted or accrued dividends and profits from direct equity investment in Australian subsidiaries or branches, plus some small amounts for interest on inter-company loans or advances as between parent and subsidiary company. 
While over this span of 4 years from 1964-65 to 1968-69 annual export earnings rose by 25%, the annual income actually remitted overseas in respect of direct private investment increased by more than 50%. The total overseas earnings on this investment, including the undistributed portion of the income, rose by nearly 100%. It cannot be a matter of indifference when direct investment income payable abroad doubles itself to around S500m  a  year in the interval of only 4 years. Australia faces the dilemma that we need this investment from abroad, and will continue to need it as far ahead as one can ses, to achieve the pace of development we require. It is no part of the Government's intention, in establishing the Australian Industry Development Corporation, to place any barrier whatever against the free flow of investment from overseas into industrial development in Australia. Indeed, it is the more probable that the role of the Corporation will enhance rather than diminish the scope for overseas participation in Australian development. Of course, in projects in which the AIDC becomes associated there will always be the objective of achieving the kind of development that will directly benefit the balance of payments and our capacity to pay for the capital or other imports which we must obtain from abroad. While we must continue to obtain capital from overseas, it is no more than ordinary prudence that we take steps to obtain it and use it to best national advantage. 
The Australian Industry Development Corporation will constitute  a  positive means of seeking more of our requirements of overseas capital in the form of loans, ultimately repayable, rather than in the form of overseas ownership of Australian industry and resources. The Corporation will have the necessary stature, and capital structure, to become an effective borrower in capital markets overseas to assist in the financing of industrial development - and thereby to assist in Australian ownership of that development. The Corporation will raise money in international markets just as large industrial companies from overseas do, to finance their operations in Australia and in other countries. The funds which the Corporation obtains in this way will thus be available to back Australian, rather than foreign, equity participation in Australian projects, 
The Corporation's functions and role are so structured as to enable it to provide  a  unique service to Australian companies: It will be in  a  position to give assistance to  a  project in whatever manner the circumstances of the development requires, lt will be able to participate both in the equity and fixed interest financing, of  a  venture. according io how best- the objectives of maximum development and maximum Australian ownership can be secured. It will, in effect, have the special role of a development and investment company with the primary function of fostering the policy objectives as set out in the Bill. It will fulfil this role firstly by its capacity to tap overseas sources of finance for Australian companies which, with very few exceptions, would be quite unable to go to world capital markets and borrow in their own right. Secondly, it will fulfil its role through its capacity to invest by way of equity or loan - or by a mixture of both - in or alongside an Australian company which is undertaking an important industrial development or expansion. Especially in the field of manufacturing, the Corporation's capacity to participate directly in projects - whenever its participation is sought - will be an important and even key ingredient in its role. 
In a mining venture, involving long-term sale contracts for raw materials, it may frequently be found that a significant Australian participation can be secured as long as the prospective Australian partner can contribute his share of the equity. The loan finance for the venture may all be obtained, against the security of the sale contracts, by the ordinary processes of assembling institutional loans of the scale required. On the other hand, in the higher industrial processes where, for example, the upgrading of mineral resources or the production of metals are involved, it is a familiar pattern that world production is centred in relatively few groups of associated international companies. In these areas of industry, it may often be" the case that Australian participation can be secured only by finding a niche for Australian production in the world-wide, integrated, production and marketing plans of these powerful units with their established market links. With the strength which Australia has in its abundance of rich natural resources, it can be expected that the Australian Industry Development . Corporation - giving . to attractive potential development the additional attraction and image of its own participation in an investment project - will enhance the opportunities for participation by Australian companies in great new industrial ventures in partnership with international companies. 
The investment role envisaged for the Corporation, and its primary functions of maximising industrial development and Australian ownership whilst obtaining the necessary development finance principally from overseas, distinguish it completely from any existing institution or commercial business in Australia. The Government gave support and assistance to the banking community in the formation of the Australian Resources Development Bank and is continuing to give it financial assistance and support through the role of the Reserve Bank. The Resources Development Bank, in its structure and activities, was tailored to a specific need and the Bank has shown an excellent record of achievement, in its short history, in serving that need. The Australian Resources Development Bank took as its central and primary objective to marshal capital, within Australia, for the purpose of - and on the scale required to enable the Australian trading banks to expand their lending to - ventures in the extraction and primary processing into marketable form of basic raw materials. 
The Bank was not constituted to assist manufacturing development; nor to obtain development funds principally from overseas; nor to maximise industrial development, and Australian ownership and control of ventures. It was riot constituted for the purpose of achieving development and Australian ownership objectives through its own direct participation ' in projects by equity and loan investment. 
The Australian Resources Development Bank is a commercial venture, owned and directed by the trading banks and meeting their borrowing needs over and above the deposits placed with them in the normal course of banking business. It serves an important function in extending the banking system's services to providing larger and longer-term loans, to a sector of industry. It is no criticism of this specialised institution to say that it does not serve a purpose, or a particular development or ownership objective, which it was not set up to serve. On the other hand, it would be entirely foreign to the philosophy and the policies of the .Government to require the Resources Bank to abandon its private commercial banking role - and to adopt instead the investment role and national objectives and functions of the AIDC. It is, of course, true that in some countries, such as for example in Japan, the banks do have a very substantial and widespread participation in the ownership of major industry, lt would be a dramatic departure from traditional practice in Australia, and foreign to Austraiian thinking on the function and role of banks, if this were to occur here. Neither the Government, nor 1 am sure the trading banks themselves, would wish to see in Australia that kind of involvement between the ownership and control of banks, and ownership and control in industry. 
The Government believes that a separate and differently constituted body is required to perform the functions which arc to be carried out by the Australian Industry Development Corporation. The AIDC will work alongside the Resources Development Bank, and other institutions, each performing its own specialised role. The AIDC, as the Bill makes clear, will not seek to duplicate the services available from existing institutions or business firms, whether of a financial or other kind. Indeed, it is enjoined as far as possible to make use of existing facilities and services. The Corporation, and the ventures in which it takes part, will no doubt make extensive use of professional services in the assessment of projects. It must obviously call on the services of merchant banking houses, making use of their special skills and widespread connections, in the raising of project finance. But, through its own special role and functions, the Corporation will fill a gap in the facilities available to help Australian industry to achieve its full potential for development, and to enable Australians to gain and preserve their rightful share in the control and ownership of their industries and resources. 
Let me now turn to the objectives and policies of the Corporation as they are set out in the Bill. Honourable senators will see that the functions of the Corporation have been so drawn as to give it the task of encouraging the establishment, development or advancement of industry in Australia concerned with manufacture, processing and extraction. The Corporation's role is one of assistance. Assistance to Australian companies, engaged in the industries I mentioned, that seek the help of the AIDC. In this assistance role, the Corporation will be working towards promoting interstate and international trade, aiming to expand exports and to improve our longterm balance of payments position. These provisions will be found in clause 6, which is drafted to give the Corporation both a wide horizon and a firm constitutional base on which to operate. To implement these objectives the Corporation must be given the necessary powers. Clause 7 expresses these in terms of powers to borrow, lend, invest, participate in the formation of companies, etc. Without these powers the Corporation could not achieve its objectives. There must of course be no doubt that the Corporation can do the very matters that are specified in clause 7 (1) and (2). Clause 7 in addition, enables the Corporation to borrow up to 5 times its capital and reserves. 
Honourable senators will recall that I said that the principal sources of finance for the Corporation's activities were meant to be the overseas money markets. The Corporation is therefore directed to borrow moneys principally from overseas. Overseas money markets have consistently been a much higher cost source of finance than the domestic markets. Any accusation levelled at the Corporation that it is providing unfair competition for existing financial institutions, is therefore nonsense. The Corporation is, however, not altogether excluded from borrowing on the domestic market. But, the level df any borrowing it does within Australia is strictly subject to the control of the Reserve Bank. In fixing borrowing levels for the Corporation, the Reserve Bank must apply the same principles as are applied under the borrowing guidelines to overseas owned companies borrowing in Australia. It is clear of course that we could not have a situation where firms wholly owned overseas had some access to the Austraiian money markets while the Corporation was altogether excluded from borrowing in the Australian market. 
One of the principal objectives of the Corporation is to assist in the provision of financial resources to secure participation by Australians in the ownership of Australian industry. In clause 8 (1). therefore, honourable senators will find a directive to the Corporation to pursue a. policy directed to that end. In the pursuit of its functions the Corporation is to work ' towards maximum practicable Australian ownership of industry. Clearly, it will not be within the Corporation's role to assist projects where Australian equity participation is going to be minimal. This is of course not to say that the Corporation can only assist ventures that promise dominant Australian ownership. Clause 8 (2.) gives some very essential operating criteria for the Corporation. Not only must it, in the performance of its functions, operate on sound business principles, it must also satisfy itself that a venture to be assisted will operate efficiently and profitably. There is no ground at all, therefore, for any concern that the Corporation will entertain assistance to ventures whose soundness or profitability is in doubt. 
In sub-clause  3  of clause  8  we find two important safeguards against the possibility that the Corporation could either be used to control the direction in which industry wishes to develop or to control industry itself, by virtue of large shareholdings. The sub-clause makes it clear that the Corporation cannot go around imposing itself on anyone, whether by the provision of loan moneys or by the subscription of equity capital. In addition, the Corporation is firmly directed to steer clear from acquiring or holding controlling interests in companies it assists. Who, therefore, would have anything whatever to fear from the operations of AIDC? Cast in a completely freeenterprise mould, and with adequate safeguards, it will be ready to take its place among the financial institutions of Australia, without any fear whatsoever that it will either duplicate the functions of others to any unnecessary extent, or that it could become a monolithic, industry controlling, giant. 
Just to make quite sure that there is no doubt about AIDC's duty to turn over its business rather than to become an investor with large permanent holdings, in industries, clause  8  (4.) was inserted in the Bill. This clause obliges the Corporation regularly to review its shareholdings acquired in its assistance role, and where practicable to try and dispose of any shares that are no longer necessary for the proper performance of its functions. To make certain that the Corporation pursues this objective the Board is required by clause  37(1.)  to furnish- annual reports to the Government. 
Honourable senators will agree that a very good balance is struck between the wide objectives, functions and powers on the one hand and the restrictions on powers and the firm policy directives on the other. The Corporation, as I have said, will be quite independent from Government. Not only is its structure, as drafted in the Bill, carefully aimed at complete independence from Government, but, in clause 9, the Bill specifically provides for such independence. This independence brings with it the need for the Corporation to1 be completely selfgenerating. It is not part of this Bill to set up a Corporation that will continually be coming back to Government for additional funds. 
AIDC will therefore be established with a capital of SI 00m paid initially to $25m. In time, it can call on a further $25m. Once the Corporation establishes itself . as a borrower - when it has borrowed at least §200m - it can call on the remaining $50m, in 2 instalments of $25m each. These provisions can be found in clauses 24 to 29 of the Bill. 
The capital the Government will be providing, is, however, not intended itself to be a source of lending moneys but rather it is provided to give lenders security and to give AIDC stature, and image, as a borrower. A provision to that effect will be found in clause 24  (8.).  It is intended, in keeping with the AIDC's desired independence from Government, that the capital of the Corporation not immediately required for the purposes of the Corporation may be invested for the purposes of producing income. This income, as well as meeting the Corporation's running expenses, is also intended to provide the Corporation with the necessary capital growth to expand its borrowing operations in the future by expanding its capital base, without further resort to Government for funds. 
It is beyond question, of course, that the Corporation's whole capital of SI 00m must be available, subject to appropriate notice being given in respect of each instalment, to provide the necessary security for the Corporation's borrowings. It is accordingly provided. With its capital mainly as a base for borrowing, the Corporation will be able to lend moneys it has raised to projects if it is loan finance that the project needs. Alternatively it may apply the funds in a mix of loan and equity investment, if this is required by the project to avoid too heavy a burden of debt finance in its early stages of operation. Again, in appropriate cases, the Corporation may provide assistance by way of equity participation only. 
It is important to remember that the Corporation, as a borrower of substance, can take full advantage of the fund-raising techniques available to the giants in international borrowing. AIDC for instance may make it a feature of a loan, that a proportion can be converted into a shareholding in the venture being assisted within or after, a certain time. This technique, referred to as an equity sweetener' can materially assist both in obtaining funds from overseas and in reducing interest rates that would otherwise be payable. It is recognised that the Corporation will be borrowing in overseas markets, where interest rates may be higher than those ruling at home, especially when compared with finance from Australian banking institutions. This is consistent with the Corporation's contemplated role of only providing assistance when such assistance cannot be obtained from alternative sources. It will therefore be supplementing scarce domestic resources with resources from overseas. 
The Corporation has not been provided with a Government guarantee. A IDC's size and its stature will be sufficient guarantee to the overseas lenders, especially as it has a large capital base that can be readily called upon, in addition to having of course the normal security deriving from sound and potentially- profitable projects that it will assist. This point has been widely canvassed in overseas finance and investment circles, and the Government has been assured unequivocally that the Corporation, with a sufficient capital basis, and as a body established by Government, could become a successful borrower overseas. 
Clauses 10 to 23 deal with the management of the Corporation. In drafting this part of the Bill great care has been taken to reach the point where there is the most favourable balance between a completely independent Board of the Corporation on the one hand and an assurance to the Government that the Board, consisting of the most competent people available, would work in the best interests of the Corporation's charter, objectives and policies. AIDC will be controlled, therefore, by an independent Board of Directors, consisting in the main of part-time directors drawn from private enterprise. . To ensure the necessary expertise among directors, clause 12 (1.) specifies certain qualifications for appointment Clause 13 (3.) makes stringent demands for qualifications in the case of directors appointed as full-time directors. 
The Board, in its operations, will have the fullest freedom in its own administrative and financial arrangements, to enable it to conduct its affairs for all practical purposes as if it were a private enterprise company. This very independence and freedom however, calls for some safeguard. Although directors may be appointed for fixed terms of years, they should in very exceptional circumstances be capable of being removed from the Board, either by the Board itself, by a sufficient majority, or, upon the recommendation of the Government, on the ground that it is not in the best interests of the Corporation that the Director should continue in office. Clause 19 (2.) (d) and (e) provides accordingly. To ensure, however, that the Government's powers are only exercised in exceptional circumstances, the reasons for the recommendation by the Government must be laid before the Parliament. In addition of course the annual reports and accounts of AIDC must be presented to the Government and laid before the Parliament. 
Again, to provide a proper balance in a situation where the Government has entrusted the pursuit of certain policy objectives to an independent body, clause 37 (7.) and (8.) provides for the case where the Government is not satisfied that the Board is operating in accordance with those policy objectives. The sub-clauses provide, therefore, that if, on receiving an annual report from the Corporation the Government considers that the Board is not operating in accordance with the policy principles laid down in the Act, the Government can meet with, and inform the Board to that effect. In that event, and to ensure that the Government uses its powers responsibly, and openly, the reasons for the Government's action must be laid before the Parliament. 
One matter needs to be mentioned, which, although falling outside the scope of this Bill, is very relevant to the present proposals. To give the maximum amount of flexibility to the AIDCs operations and to other Australian borrowers wishing to attract capital  from overseas in loan form and on the best terms, the amending legislation on the taxation of interest on convertible notes, foreshadowed last September by the Government, is at present being reviewed. It must be made clear, however that there will be no concession applying to the Corporation that would not be equally available to any other company. It is in this context that it is relevant, also, to point at clause  27  of the Bill, which makes the Corporation subject to normal taxation, and, in addition, removes exemptions and special treatment of its securities under Commonwealth and Territory law that might otherwise have applied to the Corporation. 
In conclusion: To some extent all countries of the free world, even the largest ones, are faced with the need to determine what part foreign corporations will play in their development. Australia is no exception, and the time has come for us to do something about it. Most countries that have dealt with the problem have attempted to find the answer through some form of restriction or regulation on foreign investment or ownership. We,  Mr President,  have rejected this negative approach as contrary to our philosophies. We have sought to find a positive way of solving the problem, designed to meet our own special needs and circumstances. 
Of course it would have been easier to do nothing at all. It' always is. This, however, would have meant ignoring the future and ignoring the fact that moderate actions today could prevent the need for far more drastic action later. We believe that it would not be responsible for a Government to adopt that course.' Having decided that a new institution should be created, with specific responsibilities in this field, we have been very careful to build into its charter quite clear safeguards to ensure that the institutions can work without interference with other legitimate interests. 
The Australian Industry Development Corporation will not be a tool of Government. It will only assist where assistance is sought. It will act only at the request, or with the consent of the companies concerned in a project. Nor will the Corporation interfere with the' operations of existing institutionsin Australia or overseas. Where the Corporation can, it will use other institutions. Where there are gaps, it will complement the activities of others. The Corporation will operate on the basis of commercial judgment, directed by a Board that will consist in the main of experienced businessmen. 
AIDC will not be a bank. Its structure, its nature, its sources of funds, its charter objectives all preclude it from acting like a bank, in the framework of the banking system, as in the case of the Australian Resources Development Bank. Equally, AIDC will not act as a merchant bank. On the contrary, it will use merchant banks wherever it can, to achieve its ends. AIDC will therefore have its specific role to play. It can, and will, add to the facilities already available without harming their interests. AIDC will provide a facility through which an important contribution can be made to the problems inherent in achieving the development we need, and want. AIDC will make this contribution in a way designed to enhance our long term balance of payments position. At the same time it will assist in retaining a maximum Australian voice in the direction of our development and maximum Australian participation in the fruits of that development. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Murphy)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. With the concurrence of honourable senators, I incorporate the second reading speech in Hansard. 
The purpose of this Bill is to enable the Australian Canned Fruits Board to pay to canners from the Canned Fruit Excise Fund a proportion of the excise paid by them in the period 1st January 1969 to 27th March 1969. The excise is imposed on specified varieties of canned deciduous fruits and mixtures thereof entered for home consumption and is the income source of the Canned Fruit Excise Fund. The Australian Canned Fruits Board utilises the Fund in carrying out its functions in relation to the export marketing of canned fruit. The Board used this Fund principally in the payment of market development allowances, up to the 31st December 1968, to assist exports of canned fruits to difficult markets. Another important use was to finance promotion Ventures in various overseas markets. 
After a recommendation from the Board, the rate of excise was reduced about 12 months ago from 30c per dozen 29 oz cans to 5c per dozen 29 oz cans. The main factor in this decision was that following an agreement between the Commonwealth Government and the United States of America the payment of market development allowances from the Fund on export of Australian canned peaches to major export countries was discontinued from 1st January 1969. 
When these payments were discontinued the Australian Canned Fruits Board immediately asked the Government to reduce the rate of excise. In the event, measures to effect this reduction could not, for administrative reasons, be concluded until the end of March 1969 and consequently collections at the high rate continued for about 3 months after the payment of market development allowances ceased. The Board, as a result, has substantial moneys lying idle in the Fund and has recommended that a large portion of these moneys, representing the excess over its current requirements, be returned to the original contributors of excise over the period 1st January 1969 to 27th March 1969. The Board has decided to increase its expenditure in 1970 on promotion from the Excise Fund and the refund will be at a level which will enable sufficient moneys to be retained for this purpose. Under the existing wording of the Act it is not permissible for the Board to make refunds of moneys paid. The present Bill is to enable this to be done. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Willesee)  adjourned. 
-I move: 
That the Bill be now read a secondtime. 
With the concurrence of honourable senators, I incorporate the second reading speech in Hansard. 
It is the purpose of this Bill to obtain the approval of Parliament to an increase in Australia's quota with the International Monetary Fund and to seek authority to make the necessary payments out of Consolidated Revenue. The proposed increase in Australia's quota is part of a general review of fund quotas which was undertaken last year by the Executive Board of the International Monetary Fund. The recommendations of the Board in this matter are contained in a report entitled Increases in Quotas of Members - Fifth General Review' and copies of the report have been circulated for the information of honourable senators. The main proposal in the report is that Fund members should be enabled to increase their quotas from an amount of about $US2 1,300m to approximately $US28,900m. That represents roughly a 36% increase in the quotas of Fund members. 
Under the articles of agreement of the Fund, any proposal to adjust members' quotas requires the approval of governors representing at least 85% of the total voting power of member countries. As Australian governor in the Fund, the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  recorded Australia's votes in favour of the resolution proposing the increase in fund quotas mentioned above. This resolution, which has now been accepted by the required majority, is also reproduced in the paper circulated to honourable senators. 
By way of background, 1 would remind the Senate that the international monetary system has been operating under conditions of strain in recent times. There have been crises of confidence in particular currencies and three major currencies - the pound sterling, the French franc, and the German mark - as well as a number of minor currencies, have been the subject of exchange rate adjustments over the course of the past2½ years. There have been sharp changes in the volume and direction of shortterm capital flows. This has put pressure on the reserves of individual countries and has contributed, to some degree, to the rising level of interest rates on short-termmoney in America, Europe and Japan. A large number of countries found themselves in balance of payments difficulties during the period in question, and, in 1968, there were record drawings on the International Monetary Fund. During 1969, there was not only evidence of a loss of confidence in particular currencies, but there were also signs of a more general loss of confidence in the international monetary system itself. This made itself apparent most clearly in a move out of currencies into gold and in speculation on a rise in the price of gold. 
Towards the end of 1969, the Board of Governors of the International Monetary Fund met in Washington and it was the general consensus of opinion among governors then that one of the factors leading to pressures on the balance of payments of member countries and to losses of confidence in particular currencies was a growing lack of international liquidity among member countries as a whole. There was statistical evidence of this in the decline in the relationship between world reserves and world trade. In 1952, gold and foreign exchange had been equivalent to some 77% of world imports. By 1968, this proportion had fallen to 33%. It was against this background that governors gave general support last October to 2 approaches to the international liquidity problem. 
The first approach was through an increase in 'unconditional' reserve assets by activating the proposal for. special drawing rights. The special drawing rights scheme came into operation on 1st January 1970. Under this scheme, a total amount of $US9.5 billion in special drawing rights will be allocated to member countries of the Fund over the next 3 years and will con-' stitute an addition to the first-line reserves of those countries. A Bill was put before the 
Parliament on this subject in December 1968 and parliamentary approval was obtained then to Australian participation in the scheme. Australia has since received a first allocation of SA75m for the calendar year 1970 and should receive additional allocations of about $A60m in each of the succeeding years, 1971 and 1972. 
The second approach to the problem of increasing international liquidity has been that of increasing the 'conditional' reserve assets of member countries in the Fund by increasing their quotas - or ordinary drawing rights - with the Fund. The fifth general review of quotas has resulted in a proposal for an increase of SUS7.6 billion in total quotas of Fund members. In normal circumstances, this general level of quotas will not be reviewed for another 5 years. Meanwhile, Fund members, to the extent that they take up the offer, will have their second-line reserves strengthened by up to $US7.6 billion. 
What are the implications of the quota increase proposals for Australia? In the first place, it has been the consistent policy of Australia to support the activities of the International Monetary Fund. This has been basically because we agreed with the objectives of the Fund which included promoting exchange rate stability, eliminating restrictions on current transfers, and generally promoting international monetary cooperation. It has suited Australia's interests to have a strong international financial institution, such as the Fund, to ensure that the more powerful industrial countries of the world observe certain basic rules of behaviour in their trading and financial relations with others. It is compatible with these interests that we should support a proposal for an increase in Fund quotas which aims at maintaining the international monetary system in effective working order and which underpins the role of the Fund in that system. 
Indeed, the first sighs are that the action taken by the International Monetary Fund has had just that kind of effect. There has been some progress towards a better state of equilibrium in the world balance of payments situation. The United Kingdom and France have moved out of deficit and Germany has experienced some loss of reserves. A number of factors have contributed to this unproved situation, including realignment of exchange rates and adjustment of internal policies by the countries concerned. But the Fund decisions on special drawing rights and the quota review have done much to restore confidence in currencies and to provide a favourable climate for the readjustment process. In particular, the move out of currencies into gold has been checked and perhaps reversed. On the whole, we are beginning the 1970s in a much more favourable position so far as the international monetary system is concerned than seemed likely in the last years of the 1960s. 
In the second place, however, Australia has a more direct interest in the quota review. We have always been subject to fairly substantial fluctuations in our own balance of payments position. It is of special value to us, therefore, that the Fund should stand ready to provide us with additional amounts of temporary finance in time of need. Australia's quota with the Fund is at present $US500m ($A446m). The Bill before the Senate provides for this quota to be increased to $US665m ($A594m). We would be required to make a gold subscription of $US41m in order to qualify for this $US165m increase in our quota. This gold subscription would be met out of our own gold holdings or through the purchase of gold with foreign exchange. There would be a fall in our gold and/ or foreign exchange holdings but there would be an equivalent increase in our 'gold tranche' position with the Fund. This 'gold tranche' can be drawn upon by Australia at any time so the transaction would, in balance of payments terms, amount to no more than a transfer from one kind of reserve asset to another. There would be a charge on the Budget of around $A37m to meet this gold subscription and this would need to be provided in the financial year 1970-71. The rest of the increase in the Australian quota of $ US 165m would be subscribed in the form of a non-negotiable note denominated in Australian currency and lodged to the credit of the Fund at the Reserve Bank. This would involve no charge on the Budget. 
In brief, for a subscription of $US41m ($A37m), returnable in the event of the winding up of the Fund, we would obtain an increase in our Fund drawing rights of $US41m, available automatically, and  of  $US165m, available in case of balance of payments need. Our present reserve position is a strong one. We have first-line reserves consisting of gold, foreign exchange, gold tranche position with the Fund and special drawing rights of around SA 1,400m. Our second-line reserves, consisting of our four credit tranches with the Fund, amount to $A446m. The increase in our quota with the Fund, though it cannot become effective before 30th October 1970, would have the effect of raising this to S A 594m. making a total first and second line reserves position of near enough to $A2,000m. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Cant)  adjourned. 
PORT AUGUSTA TO WHYALLA RAILWAY BILL 1970 
Bill received from the House of Representatives. 
Standing Orders suspended. 
Bill (on motion by  Senator Wright)  read a first time. 

Recently the honourable senator asked me a question which suggested that I should ask the Minister for the Navy to transfer the Sydney facilities to Tasmania. He now follows this up with a further question. I will put the honourable senator's question to the Minister for the Navy and obtain a reply for him. 
I know the honourable senator's interest in repatriaton matters. I have not all the details and 1 would have to ask the Minister for Repatriation to have a look at his question and give him a reply. 1 suggest that he put his question on notice. 
I do not have details ot the differences that may exist between the slaughtering arrangements in the United States of America and those in Australia, but 1 feet quite sure that the Department of Primary Industry has some information on that. 1 shall speak to the Minister for Primary Industry and obtain what information I can to give to  Senator Lillico. 
I do not know about this. 
Is he? lt is true that the Minister is coming to Australia and no doubt there will be inquiries made about the ranis. Other than that, I cannot say. 
Today I saw a copy of a report of this incident, but last Friday it was drawn to my attention that some beer from the Royal Australian Air Force base at Amberley may have been sold to a hotel on the Gold Coast. I immediately called for an inqury as to the circumstances. I understand, from a preliminary report that 1 have received, that the indications are that some beer ordered for the sergeants' mess has been sold to a hotel on the Gold Coast, lt is clear that this was not done by the member of the mess for persona! gain, lt would appear to be an ill advised action However, 1 am awaiting a more detailed report before I reply. 
It is true that the Royal Australian Air Force evaluation team has now returned from America. At the present time members of the team are compiling a report which they will present to me. I have had preliminary discussions on some matters of the team's report. The report will be presented to the Minister for Defence who in turn will present it to Cabinet. Further than that I cannot say anything on the matter. All operational air strips in Australia being used at the present time will be operational for Phantom aircraft. 
The Minister forthe Army has providedthe following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Commonwealth is at present negotiating for the acquisition of a suitable area of land at Macksville on which the proposed depot could be constructed. 
Thus at this stage I amunable to forecast precisely when building might commence. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
$US252m has been authorised to date of which$US220.7m has been paid. 
Of the amount paid to date$US76.3m has been met from loans raised in the United Slates of America. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has supplied the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
It would be incorrect to blame Commonwealth Meat Inspectors for the United States restriction on the importation of mutton from Australia. 
The system of meat inspection in Australia was considered by the U.S.D.A. not to fulfil the prescribed American inspection requirements for mutton. 
The 
Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senators question: 
Unfortunately, there is a mouse plague in parts of central and northern Victoria, and mice arc gelling into the shed type storages in which wheal is heid in these areas. With regard to weevil infestation the wheat was treated on receival with a protectant against such infestation and there is no problem at present. However, in the event of a failure in this protection the Bulk Handling Authority could arrange for infested wheat to be turned and retreated. 
The State Bulk Handling Authority is responsible for caring for wheat delivered to it as Licenced Receiver for the Australian Wheat Board, and both organisations are actively engaged in dealing with the mouse problem i'n so far as it affects wheat held by the Handling Authority. Although there is some cost involved in dealing with this problem, actual loss of, or damage to, wheat itself would be relatively insignificant. 
The 
Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Marginal Dairy Farms Agreements Bill 1970 was introduced on 14 May. The legislation empowers the Commonwealth to make agreements with the States for the operation of the Scheme. The agreement that the Commonwealth proposes to enter into with Western Australia was tabled with the Bill. Given Parliamentary approval, it is intended that the Agreement should be signed and come into force immediately the Bill receives the Royal Assent. 
The 
Minister for the Navy has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
lt is anticipated that HMAS Melbourne will remain in service until 1980. 
The estimated cost of pay and other operating costs of HMAS Melbourne in 1969 was $8,780,000. 
1 spoke to the Minister for Primary Industry just before coming into the chamber about the report from the advisory committee of the Australian Wool Board. He has not received i: up to date. He is expecting it very shortly. When it comes to hand, I will ask him whether he will make certain information available to the honourable senator. 

 - Senator Lillico asked me a question yesterday on this matter and I sought some information which I have here. The United States Wholesome Meat Act and the United States Department of Agriculture regulations governing meat inspection prescribe the standards and inspection procedures which are applicable in federally inspected meatworks in the United States. There are some State works in the United States which do not fully comply with the prescribed standards but these works must reach federal standards by 31st December 1970. In the meantime meat from these works may be sold in the State of production. Section 20 of the United Stales Wholesome Meat Act prescribes that no carcases, parts of carcases or meat products for use as human food shall be imported into the United States unless they comply with ail the inspection and building construction standards and all other provisions of the Act and regulations. Thus imported meat is expected to comply only with standards prescribed for meat produced in the United Stales. Imported meat of prescribed standards is eligible for interstate trade on the same basis as meat from United States federally inspected works. 
Department of Primary Industry veterinarians who have visited the United States works in recent years are satisfied that the slaughtering standards expected in the United States federally inspected meatworks are the same as those required in countries exporting meat to the United States. Arrangements have been made for the Department's veterinary officer stationed in Washington to visit a number of United States works handling mutton to observe and report on the inspection and slaughtering standards being applied. 
 Towards the end of last year, just before harvest, there were repeated requests from Victoria for finance from the Commonwealth Government or the Australian Wheat Board - 1 think both bodies were approached - in respect of over-quota wheat storage. This is the storage to which the honourable senator is referring in the main. A short time ago I answered a question on this subject on behalf of the Minister for Primary Industry. In that answer I gave the amount of money made available to Victoria for this purpose. At this stage I do not recall the figure, but I shall find out what it was. I will direct the remainder of the question to the Minister for Primary Industry. 
I am aware of the matters referred to in the first part of the honourable senator's question as to the state of the industry and the marketing situation. But I remind the honourable senator that when the renewal of the stabilisation scheme was considered a proposition was put before the growers which they refused to accept in detail. 
Yes. The Minister gave further consideration to the matter and I believe that that is the position at the present time. There is no dried fruit stabilisation scheme at this moment but I am quite sure that the Minisler is giving sympathetic consideration to it. 
The honourable senator asked me a question on this subject yesterday and later sent over to me in note form the last part of the question he has now asked. The mice plague is a matter for the Australian Wheat Board and the handling authority in the State of Victoria. As to the amount of money that has been lost through mice infested wheat, I will have to approach the Minister for Primary Industry and obtain the figures for the honourable senator. 
Fill AIRCRAFT 
The Minister for the Army has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question; 
No. However soldiers stationedat Kapooka proceeding on leave to Adelaide normally charter a bus from the one company. 
This bus company arranges a bus to South Australia with a minimum loading of sixteen. (3.) The fare is a flat rale of $28.50 which is cheaper than rail or air fares. Unmarried or married unaccompanied soldiers arc granted free travel to visit their home and families once in each year. Any leave travel arrangements in addition to this entitlement are the individual's private concern. 
I understand that one driver only is provided. The regulations covering road transport movement within the various slates are the responsibility of the transport authority within the particular state concerned. I have no jurisdiction over the operations of a private bus company providing charier services to Army personnel when such services are not subject to government contract. 
The Hat rate of $28.50 was maintained over the Easter period and no reductions were given to personnel reporting back earlier than the due return date of the bus. 
The principal shareholder in the bus company which normally provides transport as mentioned in (2) and (4) above is  Mr F.  A. Fearne of Berry Street, Wagga. 
The Minister for the Army has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Department  of  the Army has agreed to the disposal of land to enable the South Australian 
Highways and Local Government Department to carry out certain roadworks adjacent to the Warradale Army Camp. As planning for the road is only in the design stage the actual land requirement will not be known until a survey has been completed. I am unable to comment on the removal of any trees involved in this project as this would be a matter for consideration by the South Australian Highways and Local Government Department However your request will be brought to the attention of that authority when the land is transferred. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
With the concurrence of honourable senators I incorporate in Hansard my second reading speech. This Bill will give effect to the Government's intention to make available up to $25m over a period of 4 years for implementation of the marginal dairy farms reconstruction scheme. Tabled with the Bill is an agreement between the Commonwealth Government and the Government of Western Australia which will come into force immediately this Bill is enacted by Parliament. The way in which the Bill and the agreement have been drawn makes it desirable that they be read in conjunction with each other. The scheme as outlined in this Bill had its origin when the Australian Dairy Industry Council in October 1966 submitted a number of proposals to the Commonwealth Government in connection with the renewal of the industry stabilisation plan for the 5 years from 1st July 1967. The Dairy Industry Council recommended that, in addition to maintaining the already existing measures of Government support to the industry, the Federal Government should provide funds for distribution in conjunction with State governments, as combined grants and loans to provide for the reconstruction of dairy farm units which were uneconomic because of size. 
The Government accepted this industry recommendation and formulated the present reconstruction plan. In its essential features, this plan is in line with the recommendation by the Industry Council. The world situation in dairying shows an overwhelming pattern of production surpluses. Butter stocks in the 10 major producing countries have risen for the fifth year in succession. The European Economic Community alone has a butter surplus of around 300,000 tons or little short of half the world's annual trade in butter. The Six have accumulated this surplus through beggarmyneighbour policies such as high export subsidies, despite continued representations by Australia and other countries for moderation. 
Britain remains the major market for Austraiian dairy products. But the British market is limited by quotas, requiring restraint to be exercised by Australia, New Zealand and other suppliers. Even that trade is in jeopardy should Britain join the EEC without first ensuring that there are adequate safeguards- for its traditional suppliers. The quotas may have resulted in a reasonably stable price for butter on the British market, but returns from that market can scarcely be called remunerative. In Australia itself, the consumption of fats and oils per person has been declining. The consumption of butterfat per person has been falling even faster. Consumption of fluid milk per head is static in most States. Competition from margarine and other spreads would create chaotic conditions but for State-imposed restrictions. 
The sum total of a limited home market and an over-supplied world market means that, despite the continuation of the Government subvention of $27m per annum for butter and cheese, the equalised return to producers declined from 47.1c per lb butterfat in 1964-65 to an estimated 41.3c for the current year. Over the same period costs have risen by 161% according to the Bureau of Agricultural Economics index of prices paid by farmers. The net farm income of producers in the dairying industry has suffered severely. 
In attempting to counteract this situation, farmers have made strenuous efforts to improve productivity. No matter how measured, the results arc striking. In real terms production per cow or per acre or per man or per dollar have all gone up. The structure of the dairy industry has changed substantially over the last 10 or 15 years, lt is clear that the producer has accepted the productivity challenge posed by rising costs and advancing technology. Farmers who have been able to find capital to invest or reinvest in their farms and those who have been in the forefront of productivity improvements have been able to maintain or even better their income position. However there are a substantial number of dairy farmers who, due to inadequate farm size or capital limitation or to a variety of other intractable problems, have not been able to keep pace with the changes that are going on in the industry. The economic examination of the dairy industry conducted by the BAE in 1964 shows that the average net farm  income throughout the industry in Australia over the period surveyed 1961-62 to 1963-64- was $2,400. At the time, some 55% of all dairy farmers earned a net farm income of less than $2,000 per annum. In the manufacturing sector of the industry, that is among those producers who do not have access to the higher priced fluid milk market, the situation was even worse. There is no evidence of improvement in this position in the period since the survey was carried out. 
The industry's problems are aggravated by the fact that there are concentrations of low income producers in certain dairying regions, notably in south-eastern Queensland, northern New South Wales and the south-west of Western Australia, and to a lesser extent, in the south-east of South Australia. There is thus a regional problem as well as an industry problem. The whole economy of these regions is adversely affected. In south-east Queensland and northern New South Wales, the size of farms established late last century or early this century is no longer sufficient under today's conditions. In Western Australia, development has been retarded also by the high cost of clearing land. 
Dairy farmers with small holdings have no cushion of wealth to protect themselves from the impact of the drastic changes through which the industry is going, nor in most cases can they offer sufficient security to enable the farmer to borrow for farm development. Even with the greatest of effort, their holdings are no longer big enough to maintain an adequate standard of living acceptable in the Australian community. Farmers are being forced out of the industry and in many cases, these men have had to sell at sacrifice prices. Faced with this situation there are a number- of courses open to the Government and the industry. One way would be to allow economic strangulation to lake further toll of marginal dairy farmers. This course would be intolerable. Another way that some have advocated is to give, more subsidy, but this would merely produce a situation where most of the increase in subsidy would go to those whose incomes are already adequate and very little to those producers who really need assistance. The third way is to adopt arrangements specifically designed to alleviate the marginal farm problem. 
The States where regional low income problems exist have not been idle. In 1956 Western Australia introduced a dairy farm improvement scheme, followed later by its dairy farm consolidation plan which is still operating. Since the inception of these arrangements, the Western Australian Government has provided rather more than $lm to assist producers in that State. Similarly New South Wales in 1963 introduced a farm build-up scheme. That scheme is available to all rural industries in New South Wales. In respect of dairy farms, the Government of that State has spent about $1.6m for the amalgamation of properties. Queensland also has a number of measures in force which more or less directly benefit the dairy industry, although there is not any dairy reconstruction plan as such operated by that State Government, nor by any State government other than the 2 that I have mentioned. 
The scheme now offered by the Commonwealth is obviously of much greater magnitude with correspondingly greater potential for dealing with the low income problem that exists in the dairy industry. The objectives of the Commonwealth scheme are twofold: To enable low income dairy farmers who voluntarily wish to do so, to leave the industry and to receive a fair price for their land and improvements; and, after the writing off of redundant assets, to make the land and useful improvements available to other farmers so as to build up their properties to a viable family farm level and, where possible, diversifying the pattern of land use. The States have been asked to work with the Commonwealth in the implementation of the scheme with moneys provided by the Commonwealth. 
Essentially, the Bill now before the House empowers the making of agreements with States for the operation of the scheme. The Bill specifies certain features that are to be incorporated in any such agreement. First and foremost, there is the need to define a marginal dairy farm for the purposes of the scheme. Here the Bill and the agreement apply simultaneously. Taking them together, a marginal dairy farm is defined as having the following characteristics: 
It must, of course, be a rural property 
It must have at least some minimum number of cows. It is proposed to use as a minimum 20 lactating cows. This eliminates those farmers who are merely running a small number of cows as a side line. It is also the figure that was used as a lower limit in defining a dairy farm for the purposes of the BAE survey. 
At least half of the gross income of the farm must be derived from the production of milk or cream sold at the manufacturing price. I will have a word more to say about this in a moment. 
In the opinion of the State authority operating the scheme, the farm, if used wholly for dairying or purposes incidental to dairying, is not reasonably capable of producing to a level agreed between the Commonwealth and the State. In order to provide a fairly objective standard, the agreement with Western Australia lays down that this level will be a production of 12,000 lb of butterfat on average per annum. The Commonwealth is prepared within reason to adopt in respect of different States, a standard which may vary from that specified for Western Australia. This is a simple recognition of the fact that the production environment differs in the different States. The Commonwealth would be guided largely by the advice of the State itself. In addition, in order to be able to meet changing circumstances in any State or changing cost-price relationships within the industry, provision is made in both the Bill and the agreement to enable this standard to be amended from time to time with the consent of the Commonwealth and the State concerned. 
These then are the 4 characteristics that define a marginal dairy farm. For the purposes of the scheme, a marginal dairy farm is a rural property running more than 20 lactating cows, and with not less than half the gross income derived from the production of milk or cream valued at the manufactured price, but being one that has an overall production insufficient to provide a reasonable level of income. 1 have already mentioned that in requiring that such a farm have at least half its gross income coming from the sale of milk or cream the Government has laid down that this will be milk or cream valued at the manufacturing price. There is very good reason for this requirement. The scheme is designed essentially to assist the low income farmer in the manufacturing sector of the dairy industry, lt is this sector which has been most severely hit. by the combination of the low level of export prices for dairy products and rising costs. By contrast, the effects of the cost price squeeze have tended to be alleviated for the whole milk sector by the adjustment of milk prices from time to time. The Bureau of Agricultural Economics survey shows that the average Australian net farm income in the manufacturing .sector was $2,001. In the whole milk sector it was just on $3,000. In every State other than Queensland, there is a significantly higher proportion of low income farmers in the manufacturing sector than in the whole milk sector. This is only to be expected when it is recognised that milk going to the fluid milk market is paid at approximately twice the price of milk for manufacturing purposes. 
The adverse situation of farmers in the manufacturing sector is made even worse by the policy that operates in New South Wales whereby, in order to try to maintain their quota entitlements, dairy farmers in the milk zone are virtually compelled to produce excess milk for which the only outlet is manufactured dairy products. This excess milk swells the oversupply situation for butterfat, to the detriment of producers outside the milk zone. The contrasting fortunes of the two sectors of the industry have meant that the small farmer in the fluid milk sector who wanted to quit the industry has, as a general rule, been able to do so without loss. Entitlement to quota in the New South Wales milk zone gives the quota holder an unearned premium with a market value at present of $80 to $150 per gallon depending upon location. In other words, a relatively small quota, say 30 gallons, will produce a premium well in excess of a year's net farm income for an average dairy farmer outside of the milk' zone. In the manufacturing sector, by contrast, departure from the industry has commonly involved serious financial loss. 
There is, however, 1 important point that must be stressed. Low income producers within the fluid milk sector are eligible to participate in the marginal dairy farms reconstruction scheme. The possession of a milk quota does not exclude them from participation, nor does mere geographical location. Such dairy farmers will be subject to exactly the same tests of eligibility as farmers in the manufacturing sector. The only other condition that an applicant must meet who wishes voluntarily to offer his land under the scheme is that he should have been operating the holding for a period of not less than 2 years. In other words he must be a bona fide dairy farmer. The agreement provides that in exceptional cases such as illness or disability, this condition could bc waived. The agreement also provides that if experience shows that some other qualifying period is warranted, the present stipulation can be altered by mutual ministerial consent. 
The next feature mentioned in the Bill is that the agreement must include provision that the out-going man will receive current market value for his land and structural improvements. The State instrumentality which operates the scheme will not be required to buy the movable plant or the herd. The out-going farmer wilt be able to sell his livestock, machinery and plant on his own account. By ensuring that the man who wishes voluntarily to leave the industry will receive current market value, the scheme will protect him against having to sell his farm at a sacrifice. The out-going man will thus receive fair value for the capital and effort he has invested over the years. 
In the Press and elsewhere there have been suggestions that there should also be included a retraining scheme for the farmers who decide to leave the industry. Al present the Commonwealth offers rural retraining for national servicemen. There is sound justification for providing this facility for young men whose careers have been interrupted by the need to undertake service in the defence forces. It is by no means clear that such an. additional benefit should be offered to men who are changing civilian employment. Australians, and particularly Australian farmers, have always taken some measure of pride in their ability to turn their hands to whatever is necessary. At the same time, the Government is currently giving attention to the question of vocational training, especially in regard to industrial trade training, and the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  has stated that he is willing to look at this question again as experience accrues in the operation of the marginal dairy farms reconstruction scheme. 
A further feature stipulated in the Bill is that land will not be disposed of for use primarily for dairying unless it is to be so used as part of a rural property that constitutes an economic unit. In the agreement, the maximum level specified for an economic unit exceeds the maximum level for a marginal dairy farm by some significant amount, in the case of Western Australia 25%. The purpose of this differential is to avoid the risk of built up farms falling back into the marginal category under the continuing cost-price trends that are pressing on the dairy industry. The maximum level for a marginal dairy farm in Western Australia is, as I have already said, the equivalent of 12,000 lb of butterfat on average per annum. So, an economic unit in that State for the purposes of the scheme will be one that produces annually the equivalent of at least 15,000 lb of butterfat. 
The Bill and the agreement also make provision that, where necessary, the State instrumentality may acquire farms which are larger than a marginal farm, but only if both the State Minister and Commonwealth Minister are satisfied that good reason prevails. I would like to make this matter clear. Where a farm fulfils the definition of a marginal dairy farm, the State instrumentality will have full authority to acquire it should it be offered. V/here a farm is producing more than the maximum level set in the State concerned for a marginal dairy farm but less than the minimum of an economic unit, the State instrumentality will be able to acquire it provided the Commonwealth and State Ministers give consent. Where the property is already above the base level for an economic unit, it can be acquired, again with the consent of the State and Commonwealth Ministers, but this consent would be given only in most exceptional circumstances. There is one important observation to be made in this connection. The agreement sets out clearly that the State authority is not compelled to acquire any particular marginal dairy farm. Since the day to day and case by case responsibilities will be entrusted to the State authorities, they have to be given discretion in respect of the acquisition of marginal dairy farms. The State might wish, for example, to have a suitable purchaser or lessor in prospect. 
I now turn to a most important matter. In making the land available for build up purposes, the disposal will be made so as to encourage the most practicable and economic use of land with a view to achieving so far as is consistent with such land use, the diversification of production. The Commonwealth has stated from the inception of its proposals for a dairy farm reconstruction scheme that the twin aims are amalgamation and diversification. There will be instances where the most practicable and economic use of land will be for it to continue in dairying. There will be other cases where it makes sense to divert the land to other forms of rural production altogether. There will be cases where the built up farms will be suited to mixed farming. There will be other instances, such as in hill country, where probably the best thing that could be done with the land would be to turn it to forestry. The Bill and the agreement are so drawn that all of these possibilities are catered for. 
Another feature of the Bill is that in disposing of land, the man whose property is being built up will be able to obtain that land at current market value taking into account the nature of the proposed land use and the system of tenure. It is intended that the farmer who obtains built up land will only need to pay for those structural improvements that are useful to him. Redundant assets will be written off at Commonwealth expense less any residual value. This requirement that the incoming farmer will not need to pay for redundant assets is a unique characteristic of the marginal dairy farms reconstruction scheme. By writing off these superfluous assets, the possibility of the incoming man being saddled with a useless burden of debt is avoided. As far as the land and the useful assets are concerned, the farmer who takes them up will have the opportunity to pay for them over a spread period. The exact terms and conditions on which repayment will be made will be a matter that in each State the State authority will determine. lt will be appreciated that there are 2 aspects to the scheme. There is a CommonwealthState relationship and there is the relationship between the State or State authority and the producers. 1 have already covered most of the matters of consequence on the latter aspect. To summarise, a marginal dairy farmer wishing to leave the industry will offer his land to the authority in his State and if approved will receive payment in full as soon as the transaction is completed. The authority will then make the land available in whole or part to another farmer together with those improvements that the farmer indicates will be useful. The land and useful improvements will be sold to him at a price based on current market values in relation to the proposed use of the land. Before making the land available, the authority will ensure that after amalgamation the built up property will form an economic unit. The man whose property is built up will receive time to pay, the terms in respect of repayments being those specified by the State authority. The authority will also ensure that as long as the farmer whose land is built up owes money to the authority, there will be an undertaking given against fragmentation of the property. 
The ability of the State to extend credit on reasonale terms is dependant on the extent to which the State has to make repayment to the Commonwealth. The Bill lays down that, of the financial assistance to be made available by the Commonwealth, the State will only have to repay half, and that over a period of up to 25 years. In the agreement there is an option that the Slate can postpone making repayment of capital to the Commonwealth for an initial period of up to two years if it so desires. Thus, by the time repayments are to be made to the Commonwealth, the Stale can itself be receiving moneys from farmers whose properties have been built up. In effect the Commonwealth is asking States to cooperate, at no cost lo themselves, for the benefit of farmers and of the dairy industry as a whole. 
Interest will be charged on that half of the money that is repayable to the Commonwealth. A fixed rale of 6% per annum will apply on the funds repayable in respect of drawings and advances made during the four years of the current agreement. This rate is less than the long term bond rale of interest at the present time. Setting a lower rate of interest for the scheme is consistent with the action taken by the Government to avoid the recent increase in bank interest rates from being applied to rural producers. The particular rate of interest that producers on built up farms will be charged by the State authority is a mat:er for each State separately to determine. The Commonwealth's offer is thus a generous one. The State will only have to repay half of the money and that over a lengthy period and at a favourable rate of interest. The grant portion will1 be more than sufficient to cover the write off of redundant assets and any reduction in the value of land because of change in the pattern of land use.' 
Also, in bo'.h the Bill and the agreement, the Commonwealth has given the State an assurance against any overall loss falling on State revenue as a result of circumstances beyond the control of the State, and which turn out to be disadvantageous compared with past experience and normal expectation as to factors that affect farmers' incomes. In return, the Stale would agree lo operate the scheme in such a way that taking into account its experience with other schemes of an analogous nature, and the normal expectations that 1 have just mentioned, the amounts recovered could be reasonably expected to equal the Stale's costs of administration and payment of interest and capital to the Commonwealth. This is an equitable bargain between the Commonwealth and States, lt means that should the industry suffer a serious setback through forces beyond the control of the State, the State can expect to be protected against any overall loss falling on it by virtue of its' co-operation in the scheme. 
The total sum that the Commonwealth is prepared to make available over a 4 year period is $25m. This sum is not divided up beforehand among Slates in any set amounts, nor could this be done, since, as I have already stressed, the scheme is a voluntary one. lt is thus most difficult for the Commonwealth or any State to predict the rate at which farmers will come forward to offer their land. Instead, the Commonweatlh will make the money available as needed by the States up to the total that Parliament is asked to appropriate, namely $25m. The Commonwealth will also make an advance or advances as needed, to any State that requests -that this be done, in order that the State will always have funds in hand to operate the Scheme. 
The existing schemes in New Sou:h Wales and Western Australia have helped relieve the low income problem in those States. In recognition of this, the Commonwealth is willing to make available supplementary grants to these 2 States from within the total appropriation. Western Australia has requested a grant of $35,000 a year to supplement the moneys that the Slate is providing through its dairy farm consolidation plan and this annual sum is written into the agreement. In the case of New South Wales, if that State seeks a supplementary grant it could make possible the writing off of redundant assets, a feature not presently incorporated in the State scheme. The Commonwealth and State schemes would then be virtually identical as far as the buildup of dairy farms is concerned. The low income problem is not confined however to New South Wales and Western Australia. It is a problem that affects all States. While speaking of the financial assistance which the Commonwealth will accord, to the State to operate this scheme, I want to make it quite plain, beyond any doubt, that the period of 4 years for which the $25m is available will be a common period applying to all States, commencing from the first date on which an agreement is signed with any co-operating State. Let me illustrate what I have just said. Should this Bill be enacted into law and receive royal assent on, say, 30th June 1970, and the agreement with Western Australia be signed the same day, then the 4 years will end on 30th June 1974, and no further money will be available to any State out of the present $25m after 30th June 1974, unless it relates to expenditure by a State within that period. 
Clearly the task will' not be finished by that date and at an appropriate time the Government will consider, in the light of the experience gained in the first few years, what further action it should take. In addition, it is no secret that the Government has received and is considering representations for the wider application of the principles underlying the dairy reconstruction scheme, in order to assist other rural industries that are in difficulties. However, it would be unrealistic for the Government to make any decision on these further representations until the Commonwealth has been assured of the co-operation of the States in the reconstruction of the dairy industry. 
The arrangements embodied in this Bill and the accompanying agreement represent the full extent of the Commonwealth's offer. Western Australia and Tasmania have given their co-operation; the other States are still considering their position. In fairness, it must be said that the Premiers of the other States have indicated their support for the principles of the marginal dairy farms reconstruction scheme. What is needed however, is more than in principle support. During the 2 years that the scheme has been under negotiation, over 5,000 dairy farmers have ceased to operate. There is no valid reason, particularly in the light of the assurance that the States have received against the possibility of losses due to factors beyond their control, why the benefits of the scheme should be delayed or denied to the low income sector. 

 Mr Deputy President, this scheme was formulated at the behest of dairy farmer organisations. It will help the dairy industry - over 50% of the dairy farmers in Australia could be eligible to participate. It will go some way towards solving a social problem in the rural sector. It will strengthen the economies of those regions where lowincome farms are concentrated and in turn the national economy. Finally the scheme reinforces the concept of the single-unit family farm as the basis of agriculture in this country. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
I lay on the table a copy of the agreement between the. Commonwealth of Australia and the State of Western Australia in relation to the marginal dairy farms reconstruction scheme 1970. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator O'Byrne'  adjourned. 
-BROCKMAN- You tell me the reasons. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
Instalment payments in accordance with the terms of agreements will continue until 1972. Final costs will fall within the approved estimate of $A270m. 
At this juncture the flyaway cost of a Mirage aircraft has been assessed at $A1.665m. 
No doubt the industry will be disappointed with the findings of the Tariff Board on this matter - particularly in Tasmania, which is having difficulty in getting rid of its surplus potatoes. 
I well recall assisting the Potato Marketing Board in Western Australia to obtain overseas orders for potatoes, and also in regard to shipping. I recall that some years ago Victoria and Tasmania had quite considerable export markets for potatoes, whereas Western Australia had only a small export market. The situation has changed drastically. Tasmanian and Victorian potato exports have slipped back, but Western Australia has increased its potato exports considerably and is still doing so. This is a situation in which the people concerned have to go out and try to obtain markets. But that is easier said than done. Because of the competition on the world market from producers trying to obtain what available markets there are, it is very difficult for all of us to sell our export surpluses. I think we will have to wait for a further decision to be made by the Minister for Primary Industry on what further action the Government will take to assist this industry. 
'The New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement contains clauses which, in the case of a particular industry, either in New Zealand or in Australia, which is suffering from the reciprocal trade from the other country, allow the country suffering to seek some kind of compensation for or alleviation of the problem. I am well aware of the situation existing in Tasmania in relation to peas. In recent months I have answered a number of questions on this. I shall take up the honourable senator's question with the Minister for Primary Industry and obtain for the honourable senator a detailed answer. 
The answers to the honourable senator's questions are as follows: 
Neither my Department nor the Department of Works are aware of any agreement between the Commonwealth and the Western Australian Government to jointly provide a water supply for the RAAF base at Pearce and the town of Pearce. 
A water supply has been provided for the RAAF base but no undertaking has been given to provide a supply to the town of Pearce. 
Neither my Department nor the Department of Works are aware of any proposal to provide a water supply to the town of Pearce. 
-BROCKM AN- Surely a country like Great Britain with its manufacturing potential for an aircraft of the type which was wanted throughout the world would consider the matter very carefully before action was taken. A Labour Government was in office in Great Britain at the time of cancellation of the TSR2 project, lt then placed orders in the United States for Fill aircraft. Later those orders were cancelled and finally Phantom aircraft were bought. I remind honourable senators that in trying to promote an aircraft industry in this country the Royal Australian Air Force has always had a firm policy in mind, and I do not mind placing it on the record, lt is now :.nd has been in the past the firm policy of the RAAF that whenever possible orders for Air Force hardware will be placed with the domestic industry. In fact, specific instructions are issued to the departments responsible for the procurement of Air Force equipment to place orders wilh Australian industry, even  1  hough that might cause some delay and possibly an increase in costs. 
-BROCKM AN- Tha t has been a direction for a considerable time in my Department. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. With the concurrence of honourable senators I incorporate my second reading speech in Hansard. 
The purpose of this Bill is to make a minor amendment to the Processed Milk Products Bounty Act  1962-1968  which is the Act relating to the distribution of bounty payments on the export of processed milk products. The amendment will enable the alternative formula in the proposed Dairying Industry Bill to be used in the determination of the rate of bounty payable in respect of any processed milk product exports consistent with the present legislative requirement that the rate of bounty payable shall not be greater than the rule applicable to butterfat used in the production of butter in the same year. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Wilkinson)  adjourned. 
Sitting suspended from 12.30 to 2.55 p.m. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
The numbers of Mirages originally purchased for the Royal Australian Air Force was 100 fighters and 10 dual trainers. Of these, 92 fighters and all the trainers are still in service. 
Nine aircraft are at the Government Aircraft Factory for modification to equip them for the dual roles of air defence and ground attack. This conversion programme is due for completion in December 1970. All remaining aircraft are available for operations. 
Orders have been placed for local production of 30mm ball ammunition, and orders for local production of high explosive ammunition are anticipated. The bombs carried by the Mirage are also produced locally. 
The Minister for the Navy has provided the following answers to the honourable senator's questions: 
Before being entitled to receive his full gratuity, a discharged member of the Permanent Naval Forces is required to join the Reserve, if requested to do so. Those requested to join the Reserve must be medically fit have had a satisfactory record of service and conduct in the Permanent Naval Forces and have no compassionate circumstances which would preclude their joining. The Emergency List and the Royal Australian Fleet Reserve, which officers and men respectively are requested to join, are non-active and membership involves no weekly parades or compulsory training of any kind. Officers join the Emergency List for an indefinite period with a maximum age limit of 60 years. Men join the Royal Australian Navy Fleet Reserve for five years with a maximum age limit of 55 years. 
If a member is requested to join the Reserve and declines to do so, the gratuity is reduced by $400, or no payment is made if the gratuity would be less than $400. 
Yes. 
Gratuities are provided from Consolidated Revenue. The interest produced from members' contributions under the investment plan is used to provide the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund share of pension entitlements. 
The Minister for the Navy has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
and (2) Building programmes are formulated by the Naval Board with final determination being made by the Minister for Defence and the Government. The Naval Board consists of the Minister for the Navy as President, and five members, namely, the Chief of the Naval Staff, the Naval Members for Personnel, Technical Services and Supply, and the Secretary, Department of the Navy. 
Proposals for new construction are formulated by the Naval Board on the basis of submissions by the various naval staff and naval technical directorates. Considerable information is obtained from allied navies through established channels of communication. Close liaison is maintained with Departments of Defence and Supply through all stages of development. The facilities of the Australian Shipbuilding Board and private design consultants are used where appropriate. 
I am talking about the aircraft required in my Department. The Government and the Air Force have supported the Australian industry because it is recognised thai our industrial capacity is of direct defence significance. In other words, industry might be said to be the fourth arm of defence after the Army, Navy and Air Force. Development of our natural resources and the strengthening of our industrial complex adds to our overall defence capabilities. Without an efficient domestic industry there would be no capacity to develop the sophisticated weapons and equipment of the highly skilled experts necessary to assist in the maintenance of that equipment. For over 30 years the Air Force has helped our aircraft industry. 1 can recall that in 1937 the newly formed Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation was given an order for 40 Wirraways. 
The Government and the RAAF have supported the industry because we recognise that aircraft production and all Australian industries must in times of emergency provide many weapons, ammunition - about which I answered a question this morning - equipment and supplies needed to sustain our defence. Since Work War II the Air Force has bought 1,000 aircraft, of which 800 were made in Australia. They include Winjeels, Vampires, Mustangs, Sabres, Wirraways, Lincolns, Canberras, Mirages and Macchis. Canberra, Mirage and Macchi aircraft are in operation at present. Macchis are used for allthrough jet training, Mirages are attached to our fighter wing and the Canberras are in the strike aircraft category. All of those aircraft have been made in Australia. Other aircraft purchased for the RAAF in this period have been bought in small lots and I am sure that honourable senators appreciate that it would be grossly wasteful to attempt to manufacture aircraft in very small lots. I have in mind particularly aircraft like the Neptune, Caribou and Hercules. These are used only in very small numbers. 
Approximately 90% of RAAF engines are overhauled outside the Air Force by private industry. About 70% of RAAF maintenance work, which includes overhauls, major services, major repairs and the incorporation of modifications to aircraft and associated equipment is done outside the Air Force. About 95% of the servicing of ground telecommunication equipment is done by local industry, as is about 60% of the maintenance of ground support equipment. In the current financial year it is anticipated that about §10. 8m will be spent by the Air Force on the repair and overhaul of its equipment and spares. On the servicing side, private industry is receiving the greatest amount of work that we can possibly give it, while at the same time retaining sufficient work for our own men. 
Last March the Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in his statement on defence indicated quite clearly that the Government recognises industry as the fourth arm of defence. I have just stated the policy carried out by the RAAF. The Service's future requirements for helicopters have already been indicated. Undoubtedly in meeting these needs, particularly with light helicopters, every consideration will be given to local manufacture by Australian industry. Undoubtedly the same facts will apply when the Government is giving consideration to the replacement of the Mirage aircraft. The Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Anderson)  said something on this matter a while ago. As I indicated when I commenced my speech, the RAAF fully recognises that in the past the industry has played - and in the future it will continue to play - an important role. 
 I move: 
Thatthe Bill be now read a second time.  With the concurrence of honourable senators, I incorporate my second reading speech in Hansard: 
The purpose of this Bill is to provide the machinery for the collection of the levy and the provisional levy imposed under the Dairying Industry Levy Bill 1970. To facilitate the collection of the levy the Bill makes provision for the Commonwealth to enter into an arrangement with the existing equalisation body, namely, the Commonwealth Dairy Produce Equalisation Committee Ltd to collect levy and provisional levy on behalf of the Commonwealth. 
This provision will permit the existing arrangements for factories already in equalisation to be continued. Other factories can opt to pay levy and provisional levey direct to the Commonwealth or the Equalisation Committee. 
Provisional levy in respect of a production period which is collected from a proprietor of a factor)' will be offset against his levy commitment for that production period. Any provisional levy collected in excess of that commitment will be refunded. The arrangement embodied in the Bill for the collection of levy by means of a provisional levy is thus similar to the pay as you earn taxation collection arrangement. The progressive collection of the provisional levy is necessary to finance equalisation payments as the actual rate of the levy cannot he determined until sales have been completed which, on experience, could take up to 2 years after the end of the production period. 
The levy and provisional levy are imposed on the product at the time of production and as there is frequently a weight loss in the case of cheese during the maturation process provision has been made for the levy and the provisional levy to be calculated on the weight of the cheese at the end of the maturation process. The machinery for collection provided in this Bill has been designed so that it can be adapted with a minimum of interference to the existing industry arrangements. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Wilkinson)  adjourned. 
DAIRYING INDUSTRY EQUALISATION BILL 1970 
Bill received from the House of Representatives. 
Standing Orders suspended. 
Bill (on motion by  Senator DrakcBrockman)  read a first time. 
Second Reading 
I move: 
Th at the Bill be now read a second time. With the concurrence of honourable senators I incorporate my second reading speech in Hansard: 
The purpose of this Bill is to provide for the establishment of a dairy produce equalisation trust account and for the payment into this account of amounts equal to the amounts collected as levy and provisional levy under the Dairying Industry Levy Bill. The moneys in the trust account will be used to make the type of equalisation payments and other payments described in my second reading speech on the Dairying Industry Levy Bill. 
There will be provision for interim rates of equalisation payments to be fixed by the Minister for Primary Industry from time to time after taking into account any recommendations by the Australian Dairy Industry Council. The final rates of equalisation payments will be fixed by regulation. There is also provision for the Commonwealth to enter into an arrangement with the Commonwealth Dairy Produce Equalisation Committee Ltd to make equalisation payments to proprietors of factories on behalf of the Commonwealth Government. This provision complements the arrangements for the collection of levy which are designed to permit the existing arrangements for factories already in equalisation to be continued. Other factories can opt to receive the equalisation payments direct from the Commonwealth or from the equalisation committee. 
There is provision for an annual report to be submitted to Parliament on the operation of the Act. This is the third of the Complementary Bills required to implement the industry's proposals for statutory support to the present dairying equalisation arrangements. It lays down the procedures for returning to the industry the money provided by the Dairying Industry Levy Bill and so allows for the completion of the equalisation process without any financial commitment to the Commonwealth. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Wilkinson)  adjourned. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
With the concurrence of honourable senators 1 incorporate my second reading speech in Hansard: 
The purpose of this Bill is to make legislative arrangements for a referendum to be conducted on the question of whether the Dairying Industry Levy Act, the Dairying Industry Levy Collection Act and the Dairying Industry Equalisation Act should be brought into operation. The Bill provides that the Acts cannot be implemented unless a simple majority of the votes cast at a poll of producers is in favour of this course, In order that the views of the industry should be properly reflected, voting in the referendum will be compulsory. 
Under the terms of the Bill a producer will be entitled to a vote if during the year preceding the polling day he supplied milk or cream to a butter or cheese factory and at the time of voting owned cows for this purpose. Where milk or cream is supplied to a factory by a partnership each partner will be entitled to a vote. In the case of companies, each company will receive a vote. To avoid the possibility of minors voting in the referendum only persons who have attained the age of 21 years will be allowed to vote. 
Voters will have the opportunity to study the legislation and consider its implications as the Bill provides that the Minister for Primary Industry shall prepare a pamphlet containing authorised arguments in favour of an affirmative or a negative answer to the question to be decided by the poll. The pamphlet will be distributed to all eligible voters with their ballot papers. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Wilkinson)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. With the concurrence of honourable senators 1 incorporate my second reading speech in Hansard: 
In my second reading speech on the Dairying Industry Levy Bill I mentioned that the payment of the stabilisation bounty on butter and cheese under the Dairying Industry Act  1962-1967  was restricted to factories participating in equalisation. As the levy under the proposed Dairying Industry Levy Bill will be payable by all factories provision has been made to amend the Dairying Industry Act  1962-1967  to enable the payment of the stabilisation bounty to be made on the production of all butter and cheese on which levy has been imposed. The Bill has been designed to enable the amendment to be implemented separately in respect of butter or cheese in the event that levy is imposed on only one of these products. The opportunity has been taken to make some additional amendments to the principal Act. 
The first amendment relates to a recommendation made to the Minister for Primary Industry in  1967  by the Australian Dairy Industry Council that for the year  1968-69  and subsequent years bounty should be paid under the Dairying Industry Act on the basis that would yield a uniform rate on a butterfat basis for both butter and cheese. There are administrative difficulties in achieving a uniform rate of bounty under the present provisions of the Act which require separate appropriations to be made for butter and cheese. At the time of appropriation it is impossible to forecast what amounts should be appropriated to yield a uniform bounty rate as the production year is then only beginning. The alternative formula proposed provides for the appropriation of a single amount for butter and cheese which will automatically determine one rate for butterfat for both butter and cheese. This amendment will require a consequential amendment to the Processed Milk Products Bounty Act  1962-1968  and a separate Bill has been drafted for this purpose. 
A second amendment will provide for the withholding of bounty payments on butter and cheese on the recommendation of the Australian Dairy Industry Council where provisional levy and levy is owed by the proprietor of a factory for more than 3 months. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Wilkinson)  adjourned. 
1 think all of us are aware of the situation in country areas due, in many instances, to drought and dry seasons,, 'Also, depressed wool prices and the introduction of wheat quotas have had their impact on rural dwellers. 1 have taken note of what the honourable senator has said in the remainder of h's question. [ will take it up with the Minister for Primary Industry and obtain further information. 
The 
Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer lo the honourable senator's question: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
None. 
No. 
 The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 

<graphic href="044232197006093_7_0.jpg"></graphic>

I have seen reports of the matter mentioned by the honourable senator. I will most certainly take it up wilh the Minister for Primary Industry and see what he has to say about it. 
Fill AND PHANTOM AIRCRAFT 
I am not aware of the situation to which the honourable senator refers. If the information that he has given is correct, then I am pleased that he has brought it to our attention. I will refer the matter to the Minister for the Army and ask him to investigate it and take it up with the authorities concerned. 
I think that the Minister for Defence, in the statement he made following his visit to the United States, said that $US252m was the amount which had been authorised for this project, but at the same time he hinted that there could be further costs which have not been taken into consideration at this time. Therefore I cannot give the honourable senator a firm final cost. 
 The 
Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
If the Royal Commission seeks information likely to assist the inquiry from the Fisheries Division of my Department: my officers have been instructed to provide whatever relevant data are available. 
J have an answer to a question without notice which was asked by  Senator McClelland  on 13th May. The question was in these terms: 
My question is directed lo the Minister re presenting the Minister for Primary Industry. I refer lo the statement by the Minilster for Primary Industry yesterday that the rejection rate of Australian mutton exported lo the United Stales had amounted to about 1 million lb up to the middle of April and that Australian meat was not meeting the standards necessary for entry to the United Slates market. I ask: ls there a acute shortage of Commonwealth meat inspectors for the export market principally caused by low wages and poor working conditions and' has this shortage thrown an extraordinary or, indeed, intolerable amount of work on to shoulders of existing meat inspectors? Will the Minister investigate this situation and see what steps can be taken as a matter of urgency to improve the salaries a'nd working conditions of Commonwealth meat inspectors in order to attract more people into the important work of Commonwealth meat inspection for the export market. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Department of Primary Industry has been unable to recruit sufficient meat inspectors, particularly in Victoria. Accordingly, meat inspectors recruited in other Stales have been temporarily transferred to Victoria, thus creating shortages in several States. The Department will continue ils efforts to recruit persons who have the necessary qualifications. lt must bc appreciated that the seasonal nature of the meat industry creates enormous problems throughout the Commonwealth for the Department in providing inspectors wherever and whenever meatworks' managements decide to increase, or decrease throughput. The problem is further complicated because of the changes in procedures required by importing countries. 
Officers of the Department of Primary Industry and of the Public Service Board are engaged on a comprehensive review of the meat inspection service and certain aspects of conditions of employment of meal inspectors. This review is nearing completion. 
The Meat Inspectors Association has filed a pay claim with the Public Service Arbitrator. The claim is being examined bv the Public Service Board. 
So far as I understand, the investigation into this matter is still going on between the Department of Defence and the Department of the Army. Until a report is made I can add nothing. 
The honourable senator did not say who was expressing this widespread dissatisfaction with the Repatriation Act. I am not aware of the measures to which he refers. I ask him to put his question on the notice paper. 
 I can add nothing to the answer I gave in the Senate recently. 
1 have knowledge of kegs of beer being sold by a Royal Australian Air Force mess. The honourable senator questioned me about that incident a short while ago. 1 have no knowledge of a similar action by an Army mess. I shall look into the matter and let the honourable senator have a reply as soon as 1 receive some information on it. 
The 
Minister for the Army has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
There are 2 sections at Lavarack Barracks which are subject to tender for cleaning purposes. They are the Canteen Buildings (Soldiers Clubs) comprising 3 buildings and the Headquarters 3 Task Force which includes 15 buildings. 
and (3) The Contract Board of the Department of Supply is responsible for arranging these contracts. It is the policy of the Contract Board not to release information concerning the number of tenders received and the names of and the prices submitted by other than the successful tenderer. 
The successful tenderer for both sections was Winchester Cleaning Service. 
Their tender price for the Canteen Buildings was St, 13 1 per month less settlement discount. The third Canteen Building was introduced subsequent to the arrangement of the contract  increasing the contract rate to $1,729 per month from 1st February 1969. 
Their tender price for Headquarters 3 Task Force was S54.J96.32 for 2 years and C months. As the previous contractor had requested his contract be terminated 2 months early, the current contract was arranged from 1st May 1970 for 2 years and 2 months. 
No. 
No. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a seco'nd time. 
With the concurrence of honourable senators I incorporate my second reading speech in Hansard. It reads: This Bill is intended to amend the Wheat Industry Stabilisation Act in 2 respects, lt will complement legislative action by the States: First, to implement a quota scheme for wheat deliveries: and, secondly, to give discretionary authority to the Australian Wheat Board to sell wheat in Australia for purposes other than human consumption at prices lower than the price for human consumption. 
The 1968 Act made provision for the fifth consecutive 5 year stabilisation plan for the wheat industry. In the first season of the plan, 1968-69, production exceeded 540 million bushels and the unprecedented quantity of 515 million bushels was delivered lo the Australian Wheat Board. The build-up of stocks and the prospect of further large supplies at a time when world trade in wheat had suffered a serious decline from the record level of 1965-66 meant th:tt the industry was confronted with storage and marketing problems such as had never before been encountered. Industry leaders were not slow to see that these problems would be compounded unless some positive remedial action were taken without delay. Their reaction was courageous and responsible. They proposed, and obtained the backing of the industry for, regulation of deliveries to the Wheat Board by a system of quotas. 
The State Governments accepted the industry proposals. With the exception of Queensland each brought down enabling legislation in 1969. In Queensland a severe drought cut wheat production so badly that little more than one-third of its proposed quota was delivered to the Wheat Board. There was therefore less urgency about enacting legislation but I understand that it will be introduced this month. 
The 1 968 Act envisaged that the Wheat Board would continue to operate its accounts on a pool basis with all the wheat delivered in any one season being wheat of that season's pool. This Bill will enable the Board to operate on a quota pool basis. In the 1.969-70 season, for example, wheat delivered within a grower's quota will become part of the quota pool. Wheat delivered in excess of his quota will be received as over-quota wheat, lt will not be taken into the 1969-70 pool unless, and to the extent that, it is sold and paid for in full during the season. 
This Bill does not provide for the allocation of quotas. That is a matter for State legislation, lt does contain provisions in respect of deliveries in the Australian Capital Territory, the intention being to ensure that the purpose of the quotas in a State may not be defeated by delivery of wheat grown in a State to a licensed receiver in the Australian Capital Territory. This Bill recognises that costs incurred in the implementation and administration of quotas should be borne by the industry as a charge against the relevant quota pool. The quota provisions of the Bill are intended  to  be effective from the beginning of the current season, that is 1st October 1969. 
Turning to the price provisions of the Bill, the change proposed is as a result of a further recommendation by the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation. The 1968 Act provided for a home consumption price to apply to all domestic sales of wheat whether as stockfeed or for products for human consumption or for industrial use. lt is the prerogative of each State to fix the price for sales within its boundaries. The Commonwealth legislation in this respect is effective only in so far as sales in a Territory of the Commonwealth are concerned. 
In September 1969 the Federation asked that the price provisions of the complementary legislation be altered to give the Wheat Board discretionary authority to sell wheat for stockfeed and industrial uses at a price below the going home consumption price of $1.71 per bushel for f.a.q. wheat in bulk f.o.r. ports, but not less than the equivalent of the guaranteed price which for that season was SI. 45 per bushel for f.a.q. wheat f.o.b. With changes in the price levels and in the freight to Tasmania loading the limits for this season are SI. 725 and $1,435 per bushel f.o.r. ports basis. Each of the States enacted legislation to put the changes into effect in NovemberDecember 1969. This Bill would make the Commonwealth legislation consonant with that of the States. 
The home consumption price of wheat has long been lied to a cost of production concept. In earlier years of stabilization it was well below going export prices. For some years now it has been above the level of export prices. The industry's decision to seek this departure from a basic feature of its stabilisation arrangements was not taken lightly, lt reflects a realistic appreciation of the marketing situation which has developed. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Cant)  adjourned. 
 I move: 
Thatthe Bill be now read  a  second time. 
With the concurrence of honourable senators I incorporate in Hansard the second reading speech. It reads: 
The purpose of this Bill is to increase the maximum rate of charge that can be imposed under the Dried Fruits Export Charges Act 1924-1965 so that an operative rate of charge higher than the present maximum can subsequently be introduced by regulation. Under the Act a maximum charge of 0.1c per lb can be imposed on all dried fruits - currants, sultanas and raisins - exported from the Commonwealth. This charge is the major income source of the Australian Dried Fruits Control Board, the statutory authority which controls the export, and the sale and distribution after export of Australian dried fruits. 
The charge was first introduced under the Act in 1924 and the maximum rate has remained unaltered up to the present time. Under regulation, the Board operated on rates of charge lower than the maximum until 1964, when, on its recommendation, the operative rate was set at 0.1c per lb, which is the maximum permitted by the Act. In recent years however, it has become apparent that the income derived from the existing charge is insufficient to allow the Board to operate effectively under present conditions. Over the last 3 years its expenditure has exceeded income resulting in a continual reduction in accumulated reserve funds. 
The Board's financial problems were aggravated in 1969 when adverse seasonal conditions reduced the supply of exportable fruit to the lowest level in almost 20 years. This confronted the Board with the prospect of funds sufficient for only administrative purposes. Probably the most serious effect of the Board's money shortage is in the field of export promotion. The reduced 1969 income has meant a curtailment of the budget for this activity and uncertainty as to the amount the Board can make available for future expenditure through the Overseas Trade Publicity Committee. 
This Bill raises the maximum rate of charge from 0.1c per lb to 0.3c per lb and retains the provision for a lower operative rate of charge to be set by regulation, lt is intended to set the operative rate for the 1970 season at a lower rate of 0.2c per lb. This or any subsequent rates imposed within the limits set by the new maximum charge should enable the Board to replenish reserves to meet any future losses in income arising in seasons of low production and to plan for a positive programme of export promotion. 
These proposals have been recommended by the Austraiian Dried Fruits Control 
Board which is comprised of members representing both grower and marketing interests. I am confident that the dried fruit industry as a whole can regard this and any subsequent recommendations concerning the level of operative rates of charge as being designed to provide the most effective basis for export marketing of dried fruit. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 

 Senator O'BYRNE (Tasmania) 15.321- The Opposition agrees that this measure is one that is to the advantage of the dried fruits industry. The purpose of the Bill is to increase the maximum rate of charge that can be imposed on the industry in order to provide for the administration of the Australian Dried Fruits Control Board. In 1964 it was found necessary, because of the increased costs of the various activities of the Board, to impose a rate of 0.1c per lb. This rate has been operating now for 6 years. According to the annual report of the Board, costs are increasing at such a rate that now it is necessary that further finance be made available to the Board. For that reason it has been found necessary to introduce this Bill. 
The latest report of the Australian Dried Fruits Control Board shows that export levies amounted to S 150,393 up to 28th February 1969. An amount of $3,411 is available from investment in Commonwealth loans, revenue from the London office amounts to S43.440, and other income totals $468. The report shows total receipts to the Board of $197,714, against which there is expenditure of S83.940, for Australian administrative expenses, expenditure of $47,884 for administrative expenses in the United Kingdom and expenditure of $91,335 on the development of overseas markets and advertising, making a total expenditure of $223,160. So it can be seen that there is a deficit of $26,000. This has to be made up. The levy is to be imposed on an industry which has shown the way in which a properly balanced primary industry should be run. The growers have been successful in overseas publicity. Although I understand that last year they had a very bad season because very heavy rains created difficulty in the drying of the fruit, they seem to have been able to overcome their problems. 
The purpose of this Bill is to increase the levy so that it will be possible for the Board to carry on its work. The Bill raises the maximum charge to .3c per lb and retains provision for a lower operative rate of charge to be set by regulation. It is intended to set the operative rate for the 1970 season at the lower rate of .2c per lb, so there will still be a margin of .lc per lb before the maximum will be reached. That will be the effect of the legislation when it becomes law. These proposals have been recommended by the Australian Dried Fruits Control Board, representation on which comprises representatives of both grower and marketing interests. In his second-reading speech the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  said that the recommendations relating to the level of charges had been designed to provide the most effective basis for export marketing of dried fruit. 
In the past the industry has shown that it is able to cope with whatever pressures burden it. We hope that the people concerned who do such a good job, not only in supplying the domestic market but also in providing an export commodity, will gain very valuable credits through their activities. I hope that they continue to prosper. We do not oppose the measure. 
I think last week or the week before I answered a question in regard to cysts in meat, which is what the honourable senator referred to, and I indicated then that these were not harmful to human beings. I will most certainly bring the honourable senator's question to the notice of the Minister for Primary Industry and have an answer prepared. 
 Mr Deputy President,  1 do not think it is right that I should say whether I believe the Canadian or the United States Government is unreasonable or not. The facts are that there is a Wholesome Meat Act in the U.S.A. which stipulates standards and conditions under which meat must be prepared. The question of food standards and the hygienic preparation of food is a public issue in the United States. The standards are being rigidly applied to all abattoirs there which qualify for Federal registration. It is for these reasons that the Americans are compelling foreign countries to meet these rigid standards. I understand that negotiations are proceeding with the meat industry and the United States veterinary services to have certain approved abattoirs here re-listed within a short period of time. 
At present a sub-committee of the Australian Agricultural Council standing Committee is looking at this matter. It is also looking at possible ways of overcoming this disease. 
 I understand that the answer is no. 
Section 20 of the Wholesome Meat Act prescribes that no carcasses, parts of carcasses or meat production for use as human foods shall be imported into the United States. The United States is asking that its laws be adhered to. I have told the Senate that hygiene and killing conditions in the United States are very burning matters with the United States people. However, Australia has complied very well with the United States requirements. Department of Primary Industry veterinarians have visited United States works in recent years and are satisfied that the slaughtering standards accepted in the United States federal works are the same as those that the United States requires of exporting countries. At present arrangements have been made for our veterinary officers stationed in Washington to visit a number of United States works and to observe and report on the inspection and slaughtering standards being applied. Representatives of our meat industry and of the Department are meeting to try to see what works can be relisted so that they can continue to export mutton from Australia. As soon as they reach an agreement as to what works can go back on the list, we will be able to export mutton. We hope that this list will be available in a very short time. 
On 3rd 
June  Senator McManus  asked me whether the Commonwealth assisted the States to obtain additional wheat storages and if so why the additional storages were not made mouse proof. On 4th June he asked me a further question about the damage caused by mice. 1 would like to tell  Senator McManus  that the Minister for Primary 
Industry stated on 18th September 1969 that he had come to an arrangement with the Australian Wheat Board about the provision of finance for additional storage in the States which required it, provided that arrangements could be made with the bulk handling authorities. The Australian Wheat Board has advised that it made $1,575,000 available to the Grain Elevators Board of Victoria for the provision of additional storage for wheat of the 1969-70 harvest and that the whole of this amount hasbeen utilised. 
The Grain Elevators Board is the Victorian handling authority and it, rather than the Wheat Board, is responsible for the siting and erection of wheat storage facilities. The Wheat Board has advised also that at this stage it is not possible to make a worthwhile assessment of the extent of losses as a result of mouse damage to wheat in storage, but it has stated that the losses will be relatively slight in relation to the quantity of wheat in store. 
The Minister for the Army has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question:  (1)The Director-General of Recruiting, Department of Defence, provides paid advertising support, most recruiting literature and Combined Services Recruiting Centres for the three armed Services.In addition to the general cover given by the Director-General ofRecruiting the Army undertakes the following special recruiting activities directed towards its own needs. Apart from the response to advertising and at enlistment centres, the majority of recruiting stems from planned mobile recruiting tours, display activities, and talks given at school 'career' nights, service and youth organisations, and school parent-leather groups. Some young captains who are graduates of either the Royal Military College or the Officer Cadet School with recent operational experience in South Vietnam are selected for special training including a course in public speaking. They are attached to Recruiting Units in each State where they tourfor approximately eight months lecturing in schools on the value of Army career bused on training at the Royal Military College, Officer Cadet School and Army Apprentices School. Furthermore the Army sponsors visits by schoolboys, headmasters and officers of cadets to these training establishments.- Recruiters are located in 
Newcastle, Geelong, Hobart and Launceston where, because of the absence of recruiting units, they are required to establish contact with the community. A project has recently been initiated, in one of the larger States, in which each school leaver is contacted by letter and invited to discuss his Army career prospects with an Army Careers Officer. Although Scholarships to the Royal Military College are not included in the Recruiting vole they are of great assistance in recruitment for the College. All soldiers and officers connected with regular recruiting are specially selected and specilaly trained. 
The following figures detail expenditure from Army Funds. 

<graphic href="044232197006115_8_0.jpg"></graphic>

In addition the Director-General of Recruiting, Department of Defence, has expended the following amounts on advertising through all media an Army Recruiting. 

<graphic href="044232197006115_8_1.jpg"></graphic>

Aircraftsman Piper was missing for 46 days, during which period he spent nearly ail of his time under the roof of bis parents" home in Port Moresby. During his absence his father approached the resident Royal Australian Air Force officer at Port Moresby and put certain questions to him about the treatment that the boy would receive if he gave himself up. During the course of discussions the resident officer said thai in his opinion, if the boy gave himself up - and I repeat 'if - he believed that the boy would not be sent to Holsworthy. As 1 said in my original answer, this officer had no jurisdiction to give such a promise. My inquiries reveal no evidence of ill-treatment. 
Aircraftsman Piper has stated openly to the Military Police thai he will do everything in his power to get a discharge from the Royal Australian Air Force. At present he is receiving the best of medical attention. I see no reason at this stage for going any further than I have. 
As far as I am aware, the dried vine fruits stabilisation scheme was administered in the correct manner. I do not have the detailed knowledge necessary to answer the rest of the question, but I do know that a section of the industry is seeking a single marketing system. This is not popular with the Dried Vine Fruits Association. When a vote was taken on this matter the required majority was not obtained and so the Minister did not proceed with a renewal of the stabilisation scheme.I will seek further detailed information and let the honourable senator have it at a later date. 
The 
Leader of the Opposition has asked me questions about this matter, but he does not know anything about the case. He has not studied and he has not heard any of the evidence. I shall answer part of the question by saying that the boy is at present under medical examination. If the honourable senator wants him to have an independent examination then I shall call for a doctor's report. 1 shall study it and then T shall make a decision. 
The Minister for the Navy has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
No. 
Not applicable. 
I saw Press reports of alleged ill-treatment as early as last night in a late edition of an evening newspaper. I would like to take the opportunity to state the facts as I know them. The honourable member for Banks in another place approached me last week to see whetherI could arrange for him to visit an airman named Piper, a member of the Royal Australian Air Force who is serving a sentence of 28 days at Holsworthy. I arranged for the visit and I understand that the honourable member subsequently visited an airman at Holsworthy over the weekend. I was again approached by the honourable member for Banks early this week. He claimed that Piper had been wrongly imprisoned and that his Commanding Officer did not have legal authority to sentence an airman to detention at Holsworthy. 
It was also claimed that when the boy was apprehended in Papua and New Guinea he had been promised that he would not be sentenced to detention at Holsworthy. I investigated these claims and assured the honourable member that the Commanding Officer had acted within his powers. It was pointed out to the honourable member that it was true that when Piper was apprehended the resident RAAF officer had informed him that in his opinion - I emphasise 'opinion' - the lad would not be sentenced to Holsworthy. Quite obviously the resident RAAF officer had no power to anticipate a decision which could have been made either by a court martial or the airman's Commanding Officer. J told the honourable member at the time that 1 would investigate any other allegations that he wished to make about this case if he would supply me with dates and facts. 
As to the newspaper articles, the facts are these: The RAAF member was apprehended in Papua and New Guinea after being absent without leave for 46 days. He had had 2 earlier convictions and his Commanding Officer, in accordance with Air Force orders, offered the member a trial by court martial or punishment by the Commanding Officer. The lad elected to take punishment by the Commanding Officer and admitted that he had been absent without leave for the period in question. He was ordered 28 days detention at Holsworthy, which is within the legal authority of the Commanding Officer. lt has been claimed that a discharge application was torn up in the airman's face. My Department has informed me that there is a record of only 1 application for discharge lodged by the airman, which he subsequently withdrew voluntarily after correspondence with his father. As to illtreatment, either in the RAAF or at Holsworthy, I have no evidence of it. I suspect that if the honourable member for Banks, who apparently gave the information to the Press, was interested in the boy's welfare rather than in seeking publicity for himself, he would have availed himself of my offer to investigate further any other claims he wished to make about the lad, provided that he supplied me with details of the events he wished to have investigated. That offer still stands. 
The honourable senator indicated his interest in this matter and I obtained the following information: The Royal Australian Air Force Academy andthe University College of London are combining on joint investigations of infra-red astronomy and stratospheric atmospheric pollution. It is considered that important meteorological effects may occur due to exhaust gases from supersonic transports contaminating the stratosphere. Particular attention is being directed to the study of such effects because any contamination of the stratosphere is very long lived and difficult to remove. The investigation is in the early stages and so far no approach has been made to civilian companies or public authorities for assistance. The research activities of the RAAF Academy are not necessarily approved by the RAAF but are pure research studies undertaken by the academic staff of the Academy as part of the affiliation arrangements with the University of Melbourne. 
-BROCKM AN- -The Minister for the Navy has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The interval between the starts of successive refits for HMA ships is normally cither one year, two years or three years depending on the age and class of ship. This may be varied from time to time to suit operational requirements or the availability of dockyard capacity. 
HMAS Derwent was refitted from 16th October 1967 to 29lh March 1968, and was also docked and given dockyard assistance wilh maintenance from 2Sth April to 1 3th June 1969. 
HMAS Derwent is in South East Asian waters and is scheduled to refit in July 1970. 
HMAS Derwent has experienced little more than normal maintenance problems, none of which can be attributed to deterioration of equipment.  Her  operational efficiency has not been impaired from this cause. 
No units are overdue for refit. 
The 
Minister for Repatriation has provided the following answers to the honourable senator's questions: 
The only limitation on representation at Tribunal hearings is that imposed by Section 72 (3) of the Repatriation Act, which prohibits representation by legal practitioners. 
The  Chairman  of a War Pensions Entitlement Appeal Tribunal must be a barrister or a solicitor, and the other two members must be ex-servicemen who have served on war service. The  Chairman  of a War Pensions Assessment Appeal Tribunal must be a barrister or a solicitor and an ex-serviceman who has served on war service, and the other two must be medical practitioners. Neither an appellant nor the Repatriation Commission may be represented by a legal practitioner al a Tribunal hearing. 
1 believe that the interests of appellants are met by the present arrangements under a system which requires the determining authorities namely the Repatriation Boards, the Repatriation Commission and the Entitlement and Assessment Appeal Tribunals to determine claims and appeals according io substantial justice and the merits of the case and not be bound by technicalities or legal forms', lt may be of interest to the honourable senator lo know that ex-servicemeu's organisations have not, in general, favoured legal representation before Tribunals. 
The Minister for the Navy has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
There are 52 civilians and 2 engineerconstructor officers of Naval Architect Class 1 and above in the Department of the Navy. Approximately half this number are employed on the design of new ships and support craft for the Royal Australian Navy. 
The work of Naval Architects engaged on new ship design covers feasibility studies of new projects, the initial design concept, the optimisation of the ship as a total system, and the detailed design of the hull itself. These tasks involve the co-ordination of the efforts of the other engineering branches (Mechanical, electrical and weapons) and where appropriate private Design Consultants. 
-BROCKMAN- The Minister for the Navy has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
(i) A sailor who is permitted to use his own motor vehicle when travelling on leave may be paid mileage allowance in accordance with the following table, subject to the conditions set out in paragraph 2 - 

<graphic href="044232197006126_10_0.jpg"></graphic>

In addition, when approval is given for a passengerto be carried, passenger allowance at the rate of1 cent per mile (irrespective of the number of passengers carried) is payable. 
The total amount payable when a member travels on leave is normally limitedto the amount which would have been paid by the Department had the member and his passengers travelled by the normal means of conveyance. However, when a Service removal is effected in conjunction with the leave, the maximum amount payable is increased to lake account of the cost which would have been incurred had the vehicle been freighted to the new locality. 
HMAS Cerberus (Crib Point, Victoria) and HMAS Creswell (Jervis Bay, Australian Capital Territory) have been determined as Isolated Establishments' for the purpose of payment of transport allowance under the Public Service Regulations. Civilian personnel at these establishments who use their private carsto travel from their residence to place of employment are paid mileage allowance at similar rates to those contained in the table at 1 (i) above, subject tothe following limitations - 
in respect of HMAS Cerberus a maximum mileage of 37 miles per day; 
in respect of HMAS Creswell a maximum mileage of 24 miles per day; 
an amount of $2.00 representing normal travelling costs, to be deducted from the total mileage allowance payable per week. 
For taxation purposes group certificates issued to naval and civilian personnel do not record as income the amounts paid for mileage allowance. The declaration of such payments as income for taxation are the individual's responsibility. The extent to which the Commissioner of Taxation accepts any claim by an individual as an allowable deduction is not known in my Department. 
On 13th May  Senator Bishop  asked for the costs of visits to the United States of America by specialist teams which were investigating the F111 aircraft. He also asked whether these costs were included in the statement by the Minister for Defence. The following answer has been provided to the honourable senator's question: 
Since 1963 funds totalling approximately $59,500 have been approved in respect of visits to the United States by specialist teams in connection with the F111 aircraft. These costs were not included in the charges announced by the Minister for Defence. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
With the concurrence of honourable senators I incorporate in Hansard the second reading speech. It is as follows: 
The principal object of this Bill is to amend the Wool Industry Act 1962-67 so as to give effect to new arrangements for the financing of wool research and promotion. The proposed arrangements envisage that the Government will provide a greater share of the funds needed for these activities, as foreshadowed by the Treasurer in the Budget speech last August. In addition, other amendments are proposed which are designed mainly to widen the borrowing powers of the Australian Wool Board in order that the Wool Board can rebuild and renovate the wool stores which are at present placed under its control and to construct and equip integrated wool selling complexes, if this is required by the industry. I think it can be said that this Bill has a twofold purpose. There is no need to labour the point that the wool industry is today facing great difficulties. Wool prices are now at their lowest point in more than 20 years, while costs over the same period have risen very considerably. To quote a frequently used but true expression the Australian wool industry is caught in a severe cost-price squeeze. 
In saying this, however, let no one think that our great wool industry is on the road to extinction. On the contrary I firmly believe that with sound planning, the application of modern business techniques and management, combined with the resilience that woolgrowers have displayed over the years, the present problems can be tackled, and I believe, surmounted. 1 have used the term our great wool industry and I have used it deliberately. The wool industry is, and will continue to be for many years to come, our biggest single industry. Even at the current extremely low level of wool prices wool still contributes around onequarter of our total export income. This has been only possible because of the remarkable increase in wool production which has been achieved in spite of the plague of droughts which in recent years appear to have reasserted themselves as an inescapable part of the Australian scene. Woolgrowers are to be commended for this great achievement. 
We should never forget that the great prosperity enjoyed by the bulk of Australians has been due in a large measure to the contributions made to the economy as a whole by the wool industry. No one could possibly assert that the development of our economy achieved to date would have been attained without wool providing much of the wherewithal for the imports of essential materials and equipment. Similarly, there is no doubt in my mind that, despite the spectacular growth in our mineral industries, wool's continued contribution to our export earnings is indispensable for our continued development and wellbeing. As well as its continuing prominent role in Australia's export trade, wool growing is an essential component of the rural sector of the economy. Thousands of people rely on the industry either directly or indirectly for their livelihood. Large tracts of inland Australia would be totally unproductive without the woolgrowing industry - -the only activity of economic importance for which these areas are suitable. 
The Government fully recognises the significance of the woolgrowing industry not only as an export income earner but also as a vital factor in the economy of the rural areas. For this reason the Government wishes to help the industry in its present difficulties, by relieving it of the greater part of the cost of financing wool research and promotion - 2 activities which are of great importance in maintaining wool's position as the leading apparel fibre in the face of ever-increasing competition from synthetic fibres. This assistance is the first of the 2 purposes of this Bill which I mentioned earlier. The second purpose is to help the industry to help itself in the longer term by cutting some of its heavy cost items. An area where substantial savings can be achieved is in the handling of wool. Studies conducted by the Australian Wool Board show that very significant cost reductions are possible in the handling and processing of wool for sale by the establishment, on a national scale, of integrated wool selling complexes. For legal reasons these complexes are referred to in the Bill as 'wool selling centres'. 
I think it can be said that all sections of the wool trade agree that the establishment of well laid out wool complexes incorporating modern mechanised handling equipment for common use by wool selling brokers for the speedy movement of wool into store, within store and out of store to the ship can introduce great efficiency into the wool selling and handling procedure. Further, such complexes could also provide  a  vehicle for the early introduction of other beneficial innovations such as the pre-sale sampling and testing of wool, that is, objective measurement, and the streamlining of bulk-classing operations. For a number of reasons the quickest way of making wool selling complexes a reality could be for the Australian Wool Board to undertake the task of constructing and equipping them. If the Wool Board is put in a position to borrow for the purpose of carrying out this task this may overcome some of the financial obstacles which are militating against the early establishment of such complexes. I would like to stress, however, that the Wool Board will only take on this role if the wool trade, including the selling brokers, wishes the Board to do so. 
I now turn to the main provisions of the Bill. Provision is made in the Bill for increasing the Government's contribution for wool research and promotion from the present level of SI 4m a year to an average of S27m during the 3-year period commencing on 1st July 1970. At the same time the levy paid by woolgrowers under the Wool Tax Acts (Nos 1 to 5) 1964 will be reduced, by regulation, from 2% to 1% of the gross proceeds from the sale of shorn wool. On present prices this will mean a saving to woolgrowers of about $1.20 per bale. I should mention that due to the overlapping of rostered wool auction sales into July of this year, it has proved necessary to set the commencing date for the reduction in the levy at 1st August 1970. Tn keeping with its greatly increased contribution for wool research and promotion, a number of changes are proposed to give the Government a greater say in the administration of these activities and these are provided for in the Bill. 
In the first instance, the annual apportionment of the money contributed by woolgrowers and the Commonwealth Government for wool research and promotion will be determined by the Minister for Primary Industry after consultation with the Australian Wool Industry Conference.  At  present the apportionment of the money is made by the Minister on the recommen ation of the Conference. Secondly, the Bill provides for some changes in the manner of selecting the  Chairman  and some of the members of the Australian Wool Board, lt is proposed that in future the  Chairman  of the Wool Board will be appointed by the Minister for Primary Industry after consultation with the Board itself. At present the  Chairman  of the Board is appointed by the Minister on the nomination of the Board. The Bill also provides for the  Chairman  of the Board to have a deliberative vote as well as a casting vote. Currently the  Chairman  has only a casting vote. It is furthermore proposed that the 3 members with special qualifications on the Board will in future be appointed by the Minister for Primary Industry after consultation with the Wool Industry Conference. At present these members are appointed by the Minister from a panel of names submitted by the Conference. 1 While the Australian Wool Board with its expertise and experience will continue to be responsible for the promotion programme, the measures which I have just outlined will provide greater safeguards for the public interest in the funds involved without disturbing the special relationship which exists between the Wool Board and the International Wool Secretariat on the matter of promotion. Thirdly, it is proposed to amend the arrangements for the control of wool research funds. The Bill provides for the deletion of the stipulation in the Act that the Minister for Primary Industry can approve the expenditure of money from the Wool Research Trust Fund only on the recommendation of the Australian Wool Board. Insofar as the allocations for individual recipients of grants from the Fund for scientific and economic research are concerned, the Wool Board will retain the power to recommend grants for recipients other than the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation and the Bureau of Agricultural Economics. These other recipients include mainly State Departments of Agriculture and universities. Grants from the Fund to the CSIRO will in future be made by the Minister for Primary Industry after consultation with the Minister for Education and Science. The Minister for Primary Industry will himself determine the grants to be made to the Bureau of Agricultural Economics. 
Nevertheless the Wool Board will still retain a meaningful role in regard to the research programmes of the CSIRO and the BAE. In relation to these two bodies it will be a function of the Board to advise the Minister for Primary Industry on the general scope of their research programmes in relation to the wool industry's problems. 
In doing this the Board will be expected to advise on the emphasis to be placed on the various aspects of the programmes and to make an assessment of the potential benefits of the programmes, taking into account problems of immediate significance as well as those which will have an important bearing on the future prosperity of the industry, lt will not, however, be the function of the Wool Board, as at present, to recommend allocations from the Fund for the CSIRO and the BAE, nor will the Board be concerned with the management of funds allocated to these two bodies. To enable the Wool Board to make a full assessment of the CSIRO wool production and wool textile research programmes, the Board will be provided with the respective programme budgets along with the reports on the work carried out in the previous year. The form of these reports will be agreed upon between the CSIRO and the Wool Board, but the Minister for Primary Industry may also ask for special reports from the CSIRO on any particular matter. 
For the wool production research programme this will cover the avenues of application as well as the areas of research. Further, in order to permit the Wool Board to examine the CSIRO sheep and wool research programme in total, information will be provided to the Board concerning the CSIRO research programme financed from other sources which is clearly related to industry problems. In addition, provision will be made for the Board and any committee which it may establish to visit appropriate wool production and wool textile research laboratories of the CSIRO from time to time. As far as the capital items required by the CSIRO for wool production and textile research to be financed from the Fund are concerned, the Minister for Primary Industry will refer these to the Board for advice where appropriate. In regard to the BAE it too will provide to the Wool Board all relevant information so that the Board can advise on its economic research programme. It is proposed that the CSIRO and the BAE will have freedom in the management of their research programmes within their respective allocations from the Fund. It will be incumbent, however, on these two bodies to take due note of any views which are conveyed by the Wool Board. The Australian Wool Board in dealing with the research proposals of the State Departments of Agriculture will be obliged to consult with these Departments at least once a year on their programmes. 
In view of the changed role of the Australian Wool Board in relation to wool research it is no longer necessary for the Board to maintain its present 2 statutory research advisory committees, namely, the Wool Production Research Advisory Committee and the Wool Textile Research Advisory Committee. Accordingly the Bill provides for their abolition. However, the amending legislation has been drafted in such a way as to enable the Board to appoint research committees to assist it in its work if necessary. Opportunity has also been taken to provide in the Bill for the abolition of the provision in the Act for a statutory Wool Marketing Committee. This has been recommended by the Wool Board and endorsed by the Wool Industry Conference. Provision was originally made for this Committee to assist the Wool Board in its marketing investigation work. However, it has now been found that it is no longer necessary to have a statutory committee of this nature. The establishment of the Wool Marketing Corporation will relieve the Board of a good deal of its marketing investigation work. However, the amending legislation will still enable the Wool Board to appoint ad hoc marketing committees should this prove necessary. 
Finally I turn to the provisions of the Bill intended to widen the borrowing powers of the Wool Board to permit the Board to borrow money for the rebuilding and renovation of its existing wool stores and for the possible establishment of integrated wool selling centres, as well as to pledge its assets for such borrowings. The Wool Board has under its control some 280 wool stores which are a legacy of the wool purchasing arrangement between Australia and the United Kingdom which operated during the last World War. These stores are vested in the Wool Board under the Wool Industry Act which obliges the Board to maintain the stores in a satisfactory condition and the stores may be reacquired by the Government in the event of a national emergency. 
The majority of the stores are about 30 years old. Accelerated deterioration of the buildings and rising maintenance costs have placed the Board in a position where, to fulfil its obligations under the Act in respect of the stores, substantial expenditure is essential. A thorough study by the Board indicates that restoration of these buildings to their original condition 'is no longer an economic proposition. Accordingly the Wool Board would like to undertake a major reconstruction programme over the five years 1970-71 to 1974-75. The programme calls for the rebuilding of a substantial number of stores in line with modern building standards and practices and the complete renovation of others. A study commissioned by the Board shows that the proposed programme is a sound commercial proposition and the additional income derived by way of rental from the stores will augment the moneys available for wool promotion and thus benefit woolgrowers generally. Funds of the order required for the stores reconstruction programme are not available from the Board's present sources of income. As the Wool Industry Act now stands the Board can only borrow for temporary shortfalls in wool promotion funds and for the activities of the Australian Wool Testing Authority. Hence the provision in the Bill to enable the Board to borrow also for the purpose of reconstructing its wool stores. 
As I mentioned earlier, one of the areas offering woolgrowers considerable potential for cost savings is the handling of wool and in this respect the construction of integrated wool selling complexes holds considerable promise. To facilitate early establishment of such complexes, the Bill contains explicit provisions to empower the Wool Board to borrow money for the financing and/ or the construction and equipping of the complexes. The provision will enable the Board either to construct and equip wool complexes which it would then lease to selling brokers and other interests, or alternatively the Board would make the finance available for a commercial developer to undertake this task. What role the Wool Board may play in this regard is, however, a matter which will be decided by the industry. In relation to the proposed borrowing powers for the reconstruction of the existing wool stores and for the establishment of integrated wool selling complexes, any borrowings under this power will require the approval of the Minister for Primary Industry with the concurrent of the Treasurer. Opportunity has also been taken to bring the existing borrowing powers of the Board in relation to the Australian Wool Testing Authority into line with those for wool stores and complexes. The amendments which are proposed under this Bill come at a time when the woolgrowing industry is facing difficult times. The whole situation of the industry is being studied as a matter of urgency by the Government and in this regard the Government will be assisted by the findings of the special Advisory Committee of the Australian Wool Board. Meanwhile the increased Government contribution for wool research and promotion will bring some relief to woolgrowers and will also ensure that these activities, essential to the maintenance of the competitive position of wool, will continue undiminished. Finally the provision which can open the way for cutting handling and selling costs by the establishment of integrated wool selling complexes provides the industry with a new means to help itself. I commend the Bill. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second dme. 
This Bill provides for the raising of loan moneys amounting to $4,500,000 for war service land settlement in the Stales of Western Australia, South Australia and Tasmania during the 1969-70 financial year. As honourable senators are aware the Commonwealth is responsible for the provision of the whole of the capital moneys required for the scheme in those three States.  It  is anticipated the money will be made available in the following approximate amounts: Western Australia Sl.900,000; South Australia $1,946,000; Tasmania $654,000. 
As has been stated in previous years when similar Bills were introduced to Parliament, the bulk of this money is required to make advances to settlers for annual working expenses and for purchase of stock and replacement plant. Most settlers under the war service land settlement scheme started with little or no capital of their own. Adverse seasonal conditions have, from time to time, affected income in diverse areas where settlement has taken place. Also some have experienced, and are still experiencing, a cost/price squeeze. It will be appreciated that all these factors have militated against a proportion of settlers, particularly those on the later allotments, being able to accumulate sufficient financial reserves to enable them to carry on without further borrowing. For such settlers access to the credit arrangements of the scheme is an advantage, particularly in the concessional rate of interest applying to advances. Expenditure on development is mainly on continuing work on block drainage for irrigated horticultural holdings in the Upper Murray region of South Australia and on the irrigation headworks, including channels and pipelines, which supply water to settlers on holdings at Loxton in South Australia. A small sum is also required for some reconstruction work to bring a few of the later developed farms to the planned level of productivity. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator O'Byrne)  adjourned. 
 in reply  -  I want to reply to some of the points made in this debate. 
Debate interrupted. 
 The Minister for the Army has provided the following answer  to  the honourable senator's question: 
The practice whereby Service personnel pay the assessed economic rental of the residence occupied or 15% of their pay, whichever is the lesser, was approved by the Government in 1951. This provision was extended to civilian staff occupying Service dwellings in 1953. The general authority covering rentals chargeable for Commonwealth owned dwellings occupied by Public Servants lies in Section 89 of the Public Service Act. 1 understand that generally an officer occupying such premises pays the rental determined by the Minister in charge of the Department controlling the premises. (2)It is a fact that Woodside Camp does not have a swimming pool or gymnasium and that the standard of recreational facilities are not as high as those of recently constructed camps. 
Because of the expansion of the Army in 1964- 65 it was necessary to use rehabilitated temporary and reserve buildings such as those at Woodside for living and administrative accommodation. 
It is planned progressively to replace existing sub-standard Army buildings in all areas where a continuing requirement exists. Replacements at Woodside must however await decisions on the future permanent locations of Army's major units which are at present under examination. 
I cannot add anything further to the answer I gave last week when I indicated to the Senate that the evaluation committee had returned from America and had reported to the Minister for Defence and myself. The Minister for Defence and I have had discussions on the report, and a further report has now been prepared for Cabinet. I cannot say anything further than that 
Yes. I am in the middle of preparing an answer. 
I would like to reply briefly. I thank  Senator Wilkinson  for bringing this matter forward. I realise the force of what he has said but, as he well realises, an amendment would have held up the Bill at this stage. I will point out what he has said to the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  and will draw the attention of the legal advisers to it. While we cannot amend the Bill we can perhaps amend the agreement with Western Australia. 
I have seen the report to which the honourable senator refers. It relates to a purely domestic matter concerning only the situation in the United States. The honourable senator also referred to the evaluation team. This team was set up by the Commonwealth and sent to the United States to investigate the offer which has been made by the Department of Defence in the United States in regard to the leasing of Phantom aircraft. 
At a later hour of the day 1 will be presenting the annual report of the Australian Egg Board on the operation of the Egg Export Control Act. which may include some of the information which the honourable senator has sought.  I  do not have the information which the honourable senator seeks. However,  I  will consult the Minister for Primary Industry and endeavour to obtain an answer to his question. 
 I do not think it would be right for me to draw the attention of trade, unions to the matter raised by the honourable senator. I will certainly draw the attention, of the Minister for Primary Industry to the honourable senator's question and let the Minister take the necessary action. 
As I said in the Senate last Friday in answer to a question from the Leader of the Opposition, from my examination of this file there was no ill-treatment of this Aircraftman. 
I am answering this question. 1 have indicated to the honourable member for Bunks that if he likes to put in writing the time, place and type of ill-treatment that he believes has gone on then I am willing to investigate the matter further. In regard to the independent medical check-up, I indicated to the Leader of the Opposition last week that I would approach the Army - the Aircraftman is in hospital at Ingleburn camp - for a medical report on him. This I have done. The Army has even called in a specialist psychiatrist to examine the lad and he has advised that there is no psychiatric condition. I am awaiting a report on the further examination of the lad. Until I receive that I do not think that I should consider an independent medical check up. In regard to the legality of the action taken by the Officer Commanding, L believe from my examination of Air Force Orders and Regulations that the officer acted quite rightly. In regard to the question of approaching the Judge Advocate-General, 1 do not believe that the matter comes under his jurisdiction. 1 believe that it comes under the jurisdiction of the Attorney-General. I have asked my legal advisers to approach the AttorneyGeneral's Department to examine whether the Commanding Officer acted within his legal rights. 
J have read the statement. 1 have investigated the matters so thoroughly that I noticed that the honourable member for Banks referred to a Mirage aircraft crash. I have checked and found that there was no Mirage or Sabre crash in the time that the Aircraftman was in the Air Force at Williamstown. There was a Winjeel crash but that took place some miles from the airfield. I have examined the matter of ill-treatment raised and, as I said earlier, I have found no evidence of such treatment. 
What else could I look at, other than to ask the honourable member for Banks to put it in writing? 
 in reply - The Senate was debating this Bill when it adjourned last night. I want to thank honourable senators who contributed to the debate for their support for this measure. The Bill is supported by the dairy industry and the State governments have indicated that they are in favour of the principle of reconstruction of marginal dairy farms. I believe that the Press and the public generally have also reacted favourably to it. 
Most honourable senators who spoke last night referred to conditions within the dairy industry. I agree with a great deal of what was said because I believe there is a crisis in the industry. The Government has acted to rectify the position by introducing this reconstruction scheme. However I point out to honourable senators that the problems besetting the dairy industry are not applicable to this country alone. The current situation in the Common Market countries is that they have a butter surplus of 300,000 tons. As  Senator Webster  said, the Australian industry, for the first time, will be in the unique position of having a butter surplus, namely, about 5,000 tons. 
I understand that that is the position. However if action is not taken there will be a butter surplus, perhaps next year, of something like 20,000 tons. Therefore honourable senators will realise the necessity of taking action. The other problem facing the dairy industry is the cost price squeeze. This problem is facing all primary industries and, indeed, other exporting industries. The position facing the dairy farmer is illustrated by the fact that a recent survey disclosed that 34.000 Australian dairy farmers are earning a net income of $2,000 or less a year. This situation has to be dealt with very quickly. 
I do not want to refer to everything said in the course of the second reading debate. The Bill empowers the Commonwealth to make agreements with the States for the purpose of operating a dairy reconstruction scheme in accordance with specific requirements. The agreement referred to in the BUI sets out the operational guide line for the Commonwealth and the States and for the States and the producer. Thus the legislation can be regarded as the base and the agreement can be regarded as the superstructure. Within this framework the State governments have been given maximum flexibility to deal with individual cases to finality. I think  Senator Webster  referred to this matter in his speech last night. As this scheme breaks new ground, the legislation may need to be amended from time to time and provision has been made for this eventuality. Parliament will be kept informed of any variation in the agreement. 

 Senator Wilkinson yesterday discussed with me a matter relating to, I think, clause 6 of the Bill. I think I should answer him at this stage by saying that cognisance will be taken of the point he raised when considering the agreements with other States. The agreements are being framed so as to provide commendable flexibility except in respect of those matters specified as essentials in the Bill now before the Senate. The Government also has given an assurance to Western Australia that any such improvements will be applicable to that State. Since the Bill was introduced in the Parliament the Tasmanian Government has announced that it is prepared to negotiate an. agreement along similar lines to that applicable to Western Australia. Other State governments, including the Victorian Government, are considering their position. The Commonwealth Government is optimistic that before long the scheme will be operating throughout Australia. 
This Bill is important also because it presages similar schemes for other rural industries. Already the Government has received requests for the extension of the principle of the scheme to the wheat and wool industries and to various fruit growing industries. Indeed, it has been suggested that it should be extended to all rural industries. As I mentioned during the second reading debate, these requests will be considered once the Government has had a chance to see how the dairy scheme works in practice. I referred earlier to the widespread support for the Government's proposals. This support has been given because the scheme is recognised as having beneficial economic and social implications, lt will make the dairy industry stronger and better able to withstand the intense competition in overseas markets and yet give a fair return to the dairy farmers. Most important of all, it will improve the welfare of those connected with this great industry. 
That is all I want to say in general about the second reading debate but 1 want to refer to some of the points raised by honourable senators. I will deal first with the point raised yesterday by  Senator Wilkinson  about the general financing of the scheme. I have received information about this matter. I want to make it clear that the States will not supply any of the capital for this scheme. The Commonwealth is providing all the capital - $25m - for the next 4 years. 1 will explain briefly how the Commonwealth will make payments to the States for the operation of the agreements. In clause 10 of the Bill - clause 21 of the Agreement with Western Australia - there is provision for a State to obtain an advance from the Commonwealth for the purposes of the scheme. The Commonwealth will supply the funds so that the State Government will not be obliged to draw upon ils own consolidated revenue. The State will use the money so advanced for the purpose of acquiring marginal farms. Then, under clause 6 of the Bill - clause 17 of the Agreement with Western Australia - the State will be reimbursed by the Commonwealth for amounts paid to outgoing farmers for their land and improvements. In effect, the State will operate on an imprest system using Commonwealth money. I want to assure honourable senators that the States are not required in any way to match the substantial sum that the Commonwealth is willing to make available for the reconstruction of marginal farms. The States are being asked to assist the Commonwealth by making available the skill and knowledge possessed by State instrumentalities so that the scheme can operate smoothly and well for the benefit of the dairy industry. 

 Senator Wilkinson referred also to the provision of additional capital for the acquisition of more land for development purposes. According to the information provided to mc, the built-up dairy farmer will be in a position to compete on equal terms with other farmers for a share of the development finance available from the normal sources of such funds. It would create an inequitable position vis-a-vis commercial dairy farmers if participants in the scheme were to be given special concessions in this matter. Then  Senator Wilkinson  went on to make reference to the provision of vocational retraining for farmers leaving the industry. An explanation of the position is that there is sound justification for providing this facility for young men whose careers have been interrupted by the need to undertake service in the defence forces. It is by no means clear that such an additional benefit should be offered to men who are changing civilian employment. However, the Minister for Primary Industry has undertaken to look into this question as experience accrues in the operation of the marginal dairy farms reconstruction scheme. I think  Senator Prowse  was the next honourable senator who made a contribution to the debate and he asked about the man who volunteers to participate in the scheme. The value that a man who volunteers to participate in the scheme will receive for his farm will be one based on the fair market value of the dairy land in his district. I think  Senator Prowse  also asked who would say what a farm was worth in the event of one man wanting more for the improvements than the other. As for the risk that a continuation of rising costs will require the setting of higher limits for marginal farms, the Agreement makes provision in clause 5 that the present level of 12,000 lb of butter fat can be amended to such other level as may from time to time be agreed by the State and Commonwealth Ministers. 
I will explain this further when I am replying to  Senator McManus  because he spoke about strengthening family farming. There is a restraint written into the Agreement against what  Senator McManus  described as the big boys'. This scheme will not encourage those who enter rural industries just for tax advantages. It will help bona fide dairy farmers to maintain family farming. To explain this, in Western Australia under the scheme at the present time a farm with a production of under 12,000 lb of butterfat is considered marginal but a farm with a minimum production of over 15,000 lb of butterfat is considered to be a viable farm. 
The maximum figure for participation in this scheme would concern a man who owns a property and is considering whether he should buy the property next door. If his property and the one next door that he is considering buying have a total production of over 30,000 lb of butterfat then the farmer is not able to participate in the scheme. So this keeps the big boys, as  Senator McManus  calls them, out of the scheme. 

 Senator Webster made the point that the principles underlying the dairy reconstruction scheme should be applied to all industries. I have just said that the Government has had a number of requests from other industries to introduce schemes for those industries and the Government is considering this matter at the present time.  Senator Webster  also asked: What is an economic unit? As I explained to  Senator McManus,  in the Western Australian scheme an economic unit is a farm with a production of over 15,000 lb of butterfat, but in regard to Victoria this is a matter which will have to be considered by the State Government and the Commonwealth. It is for the Victorian Government to say what it believes to be an economic unit. If we take the amount of 15,000 lb of butterfat, as used in Western Australia, we find that because the production figure per cow is lower in that State the farmer would have to milk 82 cows, but because of Victoria's very much belter production figure per cow this figure is cut down considerably. 
That may be so. I am not arguing about that. The point I want to make is that the question of what is a marginal farm or an uneconomic farm in Victoria is for the State Government to suggest and to discuss with the Commonwealth.  Senator O'Byrne  asked why the S25m is not being divided amongst the States, with so much being given to each State. As the scheme is voluntary it is most difficult for the Commonwealth or a State to predict the rate at which farmers will come forward to offer their land. Money will be made available as needed by the States over the 4 years up to the maximum of $25m. The 4-year period will be a common one for all States. A decision has been made that the money will not be divided up beforehand. I think that answers most of the queries that have been addressed to me. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
Clauses 1 to 5 - by leave - taken to  gether, and agreed to. 
Clause 6 (Payments by Commonwealth). 
 I appreciate  Senator Cant's  interest in this matter, but I am afraid that the Government is unable to accept his amendment. I wish to reply to a few of  Senator Cant's  comments. The Australian Wheat Board does make wheat available as stock feed within certain limits. 
Yes. I remind the honourabie senator that the States have price fixing powers. The Commonwealth's powers in regard to price fixing apply only in respect of domestic prices in its Territories. The honourable senator will recall that the Australian Agricultural Council met last year -I think it was in September - and discussed the question of making wheat available through the Wheat Board at a lower rate for stock feed. The honourable senator will recall that the Council came to a decision in regard to this matter and the State Ministers for Agriculture had to go back to their respective States and put to their respective Cabinets the question whether they would agree to this proposal. They have agreed and have introduced legislation in their own States which incorporates the provisions outlined in the Bill The Commonwealth Government cannot do anything at this stage. However, I would like to remind the honourable senator of the point which  Senator Prowse  made. While readily understanding  Senator Cant's  interest in providing stock feed to sheep in drought stricken areas, I point out that if his proposal were adopted it would mean that the wheat industry would be subsidising the graziers. I understand that some wheat growers are also graziers.  Senator Cant  referred to Western Australia. Last year Western Australian growers were able to get wheal out of the bin - perhaps not as quickly as he would wish but action was taken to enable the graziers to get it. 
Has the honourable senator thought of this aspect? By lowering the stock feed price of wheat we come up against the objections of the growers of barley and oats because they look to the domestic consumption of barley and oats, particularly in the way of grain for the feeding of stock, as an outlet for their surplus production. There would be a great outcry from those producers if the price were lowered. For those reasons the Government cannot support the amendments. 
Question put: 
That the amendments  (Senator Cant's)  be agreed to. 
I thank honourable senators for their contributions to this Bill. I would like to remind the Senate that the Bill provides for necessary legislative action on the part of the Commonwealth to complement legislation already enacted by the States in respect of the implementation of a quota scheme for wheat deliveries and, the giving of discretionary authority to the Australian Wheat Board to sell wheat in Australia for other than human consumption purposes at reduced prices. If this legislation is not passed or if it is amended we will lose the faith of the States because, as I have said, the States have already passed legislation incorporating the provisions of this Bill. 

 Senator Cant referred to the wheat industry as a whole and made some statements particularly about the Party that I represent. He blamed my Party for a lot of the problems of the wheat industry. Of course, when the honourable senator spoke on the Wheat Industry Stabilisation Bill in 1968, not having the hindsight that he now has, he made no mention of the problems that he raises today.  Senator Cant  also referred to the part the Australian Country Party has played in this matter. He has indicated to the Senate that the Country Party is the nigger in the woodpile in the wheat surplus problem. I do not see any Country Party in Canada or in the United States of America but apparently the effect of the wheat problem has spread to those 2 areas. Canada, for instance, by 31st July of this year expects to have a wheat surplus of about 950 million bushels of which 500 million bushels will be held on the farms. When we turn to the acreage situation we see that Canada hopes to reduce its wheat growing acreage this year from 24 million acres to between 7 million and 12 million acres to overcome the problem of the wheat surplus. 
The picture in the United States is much the same. At 30th June last year the United States wheat surplus was about 800 million bushels. So when we come to look at the situation in Australia, which is considered to be a large wheat grower amongst the world's producers, we find that at the end of last season we had a surplus of 267 million bushels. When we look at the amendment moved by  Senator Cant  we find a situation that I do not think the honourable senator has really examined. The honourable senator talked about the figure of 200 million bushels for which the Government has agreed to meet the cost of production of SI. 45 f.o.b. a bushel. If his amendment is carried  Senator Cant  will raise that figure to S1.5H f.o.b. a bushel. This means an increase of .061c a bushel. If we multiply that figure of .06ic by 200 million bushels the Government's commitment would be SI 3m a year. 
Honourable senators will recall that under the wheat stabilisation scheme for the first season of the 5-year plan - the 1968-69 season - the Government estimated it would be committed to about §31m. If we add to this amount  Senator Cant's  estimated increase of SI 3m. the Government's commitment for the 1968-69 season will be §44m. If on top of this, the increase in the cost of production of a bushel of wheat, which last year was estimated at 0.9c, is a figure of lc per bushel, there will be an increase of $2m for the 200 million bushels. So, the Government has a commitment for the 1968-69 season of S44m, increasing as the years go by to $46m. $48m, S50m and $52m for the whole 5-year plan. In 1968 the Government estimated that its commitment under the plan for the 5 years would be §68m. If the amendment moved by  Senator Cant  is carried the commitment for the scheme for the 5 years will be 5240m.  Senator Cant  says that no-one will be called upon to pay this. If that is so, who will pay the difference that I have given? Surely it will be the taxpayers. 
Sena.or Wilkinson - It will be by way of home consumption. 
All right, let us have a look at the problem of home consumption. If we lower the home consumption cost of 60 million bushels- 
This is assuming that the whole of the 60 million bushels, which has been the average home consumption of wheat for some years now, will be used. But  Senator Wilkinson  in his remarks suggested that we have a No. 2 pool for over-quota wheat. 
He suggests it would be sold at a cheaper price. 
It would be sold at a cheaper price in cases of emergency and so on. Why would someone want to buy the 60 million bushels, being the home consumption portion of the crop, at a higher price when the No. 2 pool wheat could be bought at a much lower price? I am indicating to the honourable senator that he would not have 260 million bushels for sale under his scheme; he would have just over 200 million bushels. 
Well, the honourable senator did not indicate that in his speech. 
The honourable senator talked about the increase in the price of bread. 
Oh, there is a difference between the 2 honourable senators? One says it will go up and the other says that it will not. 
I am talking about what the honourable senator said and not about what happened.  Senator Wilkinson  said there could be an increase. 
Well, according to the information that I have before me there would have to be an increase of 33c a bushel in the cost of wheat to cause an increase of lc in the cost of the ingredients in a 2 lb loaf of bread. So there would have to be a substantial increase in the price of wheat before there was an increase of lc in the price of the ingredients of a 2 lb loaf of bread. For those reasons the Government does not support the amendment. I believe that we should now put the amendment to the vote. 
Question put: 
Thai the words proposed to be added  (Senator Cant's amendment)  bc added. 
Yes, the Australian Agricultural Council will be meeting in Mount Hagen in the very near future. I will convey the question asked by the honourable senator to the Minister for Primary Industry. But I point out to the honourable senator that the Minister cannot compel State Ministers to introduce legislation. The right to introduce legislation rests with the States themselves. 
I have not seen the article to which the honourable senator refers. No doubt, a number of people have different views on matters such as this. I know that  Mr Anthony,  on any number of occasions over the past 3 years, has met the State Ministers for Lands at meetings of the Australian Agricultural Council. I will take this matter up with the Minister for Primary Industry. If he has any comments to make, I will let the honourable senator have them. 
I shall not detain the Senate long. I should like to thank honourable senators for the contributions they have made to the Bill and for the support they have given it. I shall not go through the details of the Bill because  Senator Little  has just done that. I shall confine my remarks to answering some points raised by honourable senators in their speeches.  Senator Cant  asked what savings would be brought about to the wool industry by wool complexes and what amount would be passed on to the growers. This is a question to which the Australian Wool Board itself wants to know the answer. The Wool Board has taken action along certain lines. It has set up the Wool Advisory Committee to advise it on some of the immediate problems within the wool industry, one of which is the handling of wool. It has asked the Committee to determine how much saving could be effected through the introduction of certain handling methods by the industry as a whole and by producers in particular. 

 Senator Sim referred to the established handling costs of a bale of wool from the shearing shed to the door of the overseas manufacturer. He cited an amount of about $28 as the handling cast of a bale of wool shipped to England and about $30 for a bale of wool snipped to the United States of America. I have considered that the average cost is about $30 a bale, in round figures. The Wool Board has also obtained the services of an outside organisation to study the costs of setting up a complex and the savings that might be derived from that move. The Board has had an interim report from that organisation and has asked for further facts and figures which are now being obtained. 
When the Liberal-Country Party Government that came into office in 1949 decided to hand over the wool stores to the wool industry, about 320 of them were disposed of in that manner. Some of the stores have fallen into disrepair and for that and other reasons have gone out of existence as wool stores or have been disposed of. In the result, the number cited by the honourable senator is st ill in operation. 

 Senator Sim referred to wool marketing and gave his views on that subject.I do not believe that wool marketing comes within the ambit of this Bill. Wool marketing is a subject in which we are all interested and perhaps we could discuss it at a later stage.  Senator Little  entered the debate to indicate his Party's stand on this legislation. I think we should now proceed to the Committee stage. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee. 
The Bill. 
 Mr Deputy President,  I thank honourable senators for the support that they have given to the Loan (War Service Land Settlement) Bill 1970. This Bill provides for the raising of loan moneys amounting to about $4.5m to be used for war service land settlement purposes in the agent States, namely, Western Australia, South Australia and Tasmania. The bulk of the money is required to meet the 'carrying-on' expenses of those soldier settlers who are already on the land. Some of it will go towards the purchase of stock and a very much smaller proportion will be used for the replacement of plant. 
I do not think there is any need for me to stress the importance of this money to some of these soldier settlers.  Senator Wilkinson  referred to some soldier settlers in Western Australia.  Senator Lillico  and  Senator Laucke  dealt with the position of soldier settlers in their respective States. In the last couple of days, we have spoken about the difficulties of rural industries with particular reference to the wool and wheat industries. Soldier settlers working their blocks are subject to the same pressures as are people in rural industries generally. So, honourable senators can see the need for this money to meet ordinary working expenses so that these soldier settlers may carry on. 
This money is loaned to war service settlers at an interest rate of 31%. The general borrowing rale to the general rural borrower is between 61% and 7i%. A comparison between the 2 rates shows that the interest rate at which money is loaned to war service settlers is very favourable indeed. If the general rural borrower wishes to borrow money from his stock firm, he must pay even 8% or 9% interest. If he cannot obtain money from that source, he may be compelled to resort to hire purchase and be required to pay even higher interest rates. 
Up to date, the Commonwealth Government has provided the agent Stales over the years with about $260m for this purpose. The total money loaned by the Commonwealth to all States under this scheme has amounted to approximately $320m. What has this scheme achieved? In the agent States, we have been able to place about 3,000 exservicemen on Mocks under the resettlement scheme. Overall, we have been able to provide ex-servicemen with about 9,000 farms. 1 think that this is a pretty good effort when the total scheme is considered. 
I do not think that the Commonwealth has ever claimed on any occasion that the war service land settlement scheme is free of difficulties. Difficulties are to be found in certain pockets in the agent Slates.  Senator Laucke  mentioned one of them.  Senator Wilkinson  mentioned another and  Senator Lillico  mentioned a third area. Problems do exist in Tasmania, of which  Senator Lillico  spoke. But overall, the demand for land by eligible settlers in the agent States has been satisfied. I believe that the record of the Government gives no ground for an inquiry. I do nol think there is any valid reason why an inquiry should bc held, in the terms of this Bill, into conditions in the agent States only, when Victoria, Queensland and New South Wales are outside the ambit of the Bill. 

 Senator Lillico mentioned that, in his State, the Slate Government is conducting its own inquiry into war service land settlement problems. The Commonwealth Government, through the Department of Primary Industry, will be sending officers along to this inquiry in Tasmania to give evidence. So we hope that we will be able to overcome the problems there. 
May I make brief reference to some of the points raised by honourable senators during the course of their contributions.  Senator Keeffe  suggested that war veterans returning home from Vietnam should be re-established under this scheme on the land if they desire to go on the land. This I agree with. But at the present time there is no Government policy providing for the re-establishment of a Vietnam veteran under the terms of the War Service Land Settlement Act as we know it. A Vietnam veteran is re-established on the land by obtaining a sum of money - 1 think it is $6,000- through (he Defence (Reestablishment) Act. Money is made available in the Budget each year to accommodate these men. 

 Senator Lillico referred to the option price values in Tasmania. 1 wish to give the honourable senator some information which I have with me on this matter. The true value of any article is what it will realise on sale by auction. In this regard, 1 may mention that there have been a number of areas surplus to war service land settlement requirements in Tasmania. These areas have been sold by auction. Generally, prices received equalled or exceeded the reserve prices. These reserve prices are based on valuations made by Commonwealth valuers. These are the same valuers who make valuations for option price purposes. Actual sales have substantiated that the valuations made by these officers, if anything, are conservative. To suggest that these valuers would depart from their normal principles and practices when making valuations foc option price purposes is too ludicrous to justify consideration. Finally, 1 stress that the Commonwealth does not enforce only I valuation by Commonwealth valuers for option price purposes. I am advised that, when the method of determining option prices was being worked out, it was proposed that 2 valuations would be made. I by the Commonwealth and 1 by the agent State. In practice, the agent State has accepted the Commonwealth valuation. I hope that that information will go part of the way towards satisfying  Senator Lillico. 
Regarding the matters raised by  Senator Laucke,  I wish to say that I am not familiar with the points that he discussed. With his permission, I would like to check those points and write to him on that matter during the recess. The Government cannot support the amendment to this Bill moved by  Senator Keeffe.  We do not believe, firstly, that a Senate committee is necessary. We believe that the war service land settlement scheme in the agent States has a very good record. Although we know that problems do exist, we are investigating them and are trying to overcome them to the best of our ability. Therefore, we cannot support the amendment. 
. a Senate Committee should inquire into and report upon the operation of War Service Land Settlement in Australia in order to formulate guidelines for any land settlement scheme, and that matter is hereby referred to the Standing Committee on Primary and Secondary Industry and Trade. 
The Loan (War Service Land Settlement) Bill 1970 deals only with the authorisation for loan and the grant of that loan money to 3 States - that is to say, South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania - for the purpose of the existing Act. The matter which is the intention of the amendment to refer to the standing committee is war service land settlement in the whole of Australia, including the other States and Territories, and to formulate a new scheme. 1 submit that this amendment does not come within the provisions of standing order 195. Standing order 194 permits on the motion for the second reading of a Bill an amendment to be moved to the motion to leave out the word 'now' and to add the words this day 6 months'. Standing Order 195 states: 
No other Amendment may be moved to such Question except in the form of a Resolution strictly relevant to the Bill. 
It is my submission that a resolution not merely expressing an opinion but seeking to effectuate that purpose by referring the matter to a standing committee, when that matter applies not only to the area covered by the provisions of the Bill, the 3 States concerned, but to the whole of Australia, including the other 3 States and the Territories is not strictly relevant to the Bill. That is the more  so  when the motion is concerned with not merely the implementation of the Act for which the loan under this Bill is to be provided, but with formulating guidelines for any land settlement scheme. I repeat, that is not strictly relevant to the Bill. 
No other Amendment mar be moved to such Question except in the form of a Resolution strictly relevant to the Bill. 
The principle of relevance runs through the standing orders concerned. The Minister, as I understand it, concedes that it is strictly relevant to the Bill to add a provision in the form of an opinion of the type that is included in this amendment. The amendment states:  but the Senate is of the opinion that a Senate committee should inquire into and report upon the operation- 
I think it is extremely important that in matters of this kind the Senate should not tie its hands by narrow procedural restrictions that are not imposed upon it by the Standing Orders. One of the great difficulties which face this Senate is the increasing difficulty in reaching decisions. In the course of a year the number of occasions on which decisions might be made would be strictly limited, and the suggestion today that some notice of motion be given is really an obstructive move, the intention being nol really to contend that some warning is necessary, because it has not been said that someone has been caught by surprise and needs time to consider the matter, but to ensure that the notice paper will be cluttered up and it will be 6 months before the matter is dealt with. 
This is appropriate. It is strictly relevant to the subject matter and the simple position is: Either the Senate wants to do it or it does not. If there is not a majority here in favour of doing it there is no suggestion that we need further time to consider it; either support it or oppose it. That is the simple proposition and we ought to give ourselves as much flexbility and as much latitude as possible to come to such decisions. I submit to you,  Mr Deputy President,  that that is the simple position, that it is relevant and it ought to be left to the Senate simply to say whether it wants it or not. There may or may not be a majority in favour of the proposal but the Senate should not tie its hands by adopting some restriction which is not imposed upon it by the Standing Orders. 
In Bills which the Senate may not amend, the question 'That this Bill be now read a first time' may be debated, and in such debate matters both relevant and not relevant to the subject matter of the Bill may bc discussed. 
It is interesting there to see that the words relevant and not relevant' are used. In other words, it does not allow lo the Senate a margin of discretion on a direction from the Presiding Officer as to whether a matter is relevant or not relevant. But when we come to the standing order in question the words 'relevant and not relevant' are not used. It reads: 'except in the form of a resolution strictly relevant to the Bill'. Obviously this is within the same group of standing orders governing the discussion of public Bills and the adverb 'strictly' is inserted there. 1 would say that these committees should have the opportunity to operate at least for some time then on that experience it may be found necessary to re-look at the appropriate standing orders and, if necessary, to amend them in terms of the reasonable requirements for. the operation of those committees. I think prudence demands that we observe the Standing Orders in their present form with all their limitations and not interpret them unduly widely as we would be doing in this case. On an interpretation of standing order 195 I cannot see that the amendment proposed by  Senator Keeffe  complies with my understanding of the words 'strictly relevant' in the context of the word relevant' as is used in other sections of the Standing Orders. 
I could not see in those circumstances that it would be relevant and a fortiori. I most certainly could not see that it would comply with the term 'strictly relevant'. For that reason I would oppose the amendment. 
Immediately after a Bill has been read a second time - a motion (of which notice need not be given) for referring the Bill to a Standing Committee or a Select Committee; and/or an Instruction of which notice has been given - may then be moved. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - After hearing the debate 1 rule that the point of order is upheld. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time and reported from Committee without amendment or debate; report adopted. 
Third Reading 
Motion (by  Senator Drake-  Brockman) proposed: 
That the Bill be now read a third time. 

 Senator KEEFFE (Queensland) 13.17.]- 1 want to make a couple of brief remarks in view of your ruling,  Mr Deputy President.  1 accept your judgment that the amendment previously moved was out of order. But 1 think that the implications- 
I support the tributes paid by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  and the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  to the late  Sir Wilfrid  Kent Hughes. I know I speak for every member of the Australian Country Party when I say that  Sir Wilfrid's  death has robbed the Australian Parliament and the Australian people of a most remarkable figure. Only a comparative few have the honour of representing the Australian people either in State or Federal politics.  Sir Wilfrid  did both, winning selection for the Victorian Parliament and later being elected to the Federal Parliament. It is significant that such was his outstanding ability that he rose to ministerial rank in both the State and Federal governments. 
The outstanding qualities of this man extended well beyond the boundaries of Parliament where he served and legislated with distinction. He will always be remembered outside (he parliamentary ranks as a man who represented his country as an Olympic athlete of distinction and who put back into sport probably more than he ever took out of it.  Sir Wilfrid,  significantly and appropriately, was  Chairman  of the Organising Committee of the Olympic Games held in Melbourne in 1956, the first time that the Olympic Games had been held in this country. 
Any mention of this man would be incomplete without remembering that  Sir Wilfrid  served his country with valour during 2 world wars. He will be missed by all. I and my Country Party colleagues extend our deepest sympathy to his widow and 3 daughters. 
Unless adverse weather conditions or technical problems cause delays, the first 6 Phantom aircraft should arrive in Australia on 14th September. The remaining 18 of the total of 24 Phantoms leased from the United States of America will arrive in Australia in batches of 6 on 19th September, 26th September and 3rd October. They will be brought out by Royal Australian Air Force crews, which have been trained in America, and by experienced United States of America Air Force crews. I recently saw a newspaper article in which Australia was reported to be buying another 6 Phantoms. I presume that the writer of this article based his statement on the fact that Australia may order from America 6 RF11I reconnaisance aircraft. As, at this stage, we are not taking the Fill, he has presumed that we will be taking 6 Phantoms. This is not so. 
The Minister for Repatriation has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
No. 
No. 
A situation of the kind suggested does not exist. 
-BROCKMA N -  The 
Opposition proposes a reconstruction programme that would take some years to implement. That was the suggestion made by  Senator O'Byrne  this afternoon. Debt reconstruction, not a reconstruction scheme, is the policy to meet this situation. 
I am glad the honourable senator agrees with me. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  has been talking about this scheme and has been endeavouring for some time to bring it into operation. It must take some time to implement. But what is going to to happen to the farmer I referred to earlier? The Opposition slates that it wants reconstruction of the entire rural industry. 
I have looked into the affairs of the rural sector in my State. A survey conducted recently revealed that many mcn are in such a difficult situation that no matter how much money was lent to them at this stage, they could not use it because they would be building up a higher repayment bill which they would not be capable of meeting. Surely, in such a situation, the thing to do is to make them an immediate payment in order to allow them some time in which to readjust. This is exactly what is proposed in the Budget announced last night. Without ascertaining the details contained in the Budget the Opposition this afternoon introduced a debate on a matter of urgency. The Opposition spokesman did not say what was required or what action the Labor Party would take to overcome this problem. Surely one can put only one interpretation on this: The debate was initiated in an attempt to hurt the Government on the eve of a Senate election. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Laucke)  - Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
It is true that the Australian Fills have been parked outside on the tarmac. This is because ail Fill aircraft were grounded following the crash in late December. We have an understanding with the works that our aircraft will have all the technical equipment and perishable equipment removed from them if necessary and then, when Australia is in a position to take them, the technical equipment will be put back and all the perishable equipment around the aircraft will be renewed so that they will come out of the hangar in a new condition. In regard to the cost of parking, the figure referred to is pure newspaper speculation. Over the years there has been a protracted discussion on the cost of parking. This is something that will have to be sorted out when we take delivery of the aircraft. 
On a number of occasions I have referred to pay and conditions within the Service. For some time my Department has been represented on the Defence Conditions Committee which has been looking at pay and conditions in the Services. Recommendations have been made in which my Department has been involved. The Chief of the Air Staff has seen the recommendations. Those recommendations have been put before the Government. Some of them have been accepted and others are awaiting examination. In regard to the point that  Senator 0'Byrne  made about flying pay for the Service as against that paid to Department of Civil Aviation employees, 1 point out for the information of the honourable senator that the recent increases in flying pay were rather substantial. In some cases they were almost double the existing rates. 
I have before me examples of the total emoluments, inclusive of flying pay for junior and senior ranks. I remind the honourable senator that when I answered a question on this matter during the last sessional period I spoke of senior flight lieutenants and squadron leaders. A married flight lieutenant has a range of between $6,724 and §8,606. The Department of Civil Aviation examiner of airmen has on appointment a salary range of 57,138 to $7,328 plus flying pay amounting to $1,613, which brings him up to $8,751. So the difference is not great. Perhaps the only thing these 2 officers have in common in the way of duties is that they both fly sophisticated aircraft. We are looking at pay and conditions. Recommendations have been made and we hope that very shortly these will be considered and announcements will be made. 
BROCKMAN  -  I understood that over the last 12 months the sale of honey on the export market had improved and that prices were holding quite reasonably. I am not aware of some of the points raised by the honourable senator. I will make inquiries and let him have an answer at a later date. 
On 23rd April 1970 the Minister for Primary Industry asked that I inform the honourable senator that some of the information requested was not immediately available. The Minister for Primary Industry has now provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
All States enacted legislation to implement the Commonwealth Loan (Farmers' Debt Adjustment) Act 1935-1950. In Queensland, The Farmers' Assistance (Debts Adjustment) Act 1935- 1945 was subsequently repealed and replaced by The Farmers' Assistance (Debts Adjustment) Act of 1967. A perusal of the Statutes in each State indicates that there are some similarities and some differences in the provisions. 
Grants provided to the States under the Commonwealth Farmers' Debt Adjustment Act were represented in State Accounts at 30th June 1969 by the following cash balances, loans outstanding and amounts written off or remitted: 

<graphic href="045232197008191_13_0.jpg"></graphic>

The Commonwealth Loan (Farmers' Debt Adjustment) Act 1935-1950 authorised the Treasurer to make grants to the States for the purpose of discharging, in whole or in part, the debts of farmers by means of compositions or schemes of arrangement between farmers and their creditors. The legislation provided that the Commonwealth could make grants to the States up to a total of $24m. However, in 1943 the Act was amended with the effect that no further grants could be made to the States. Up to that time advances totalling $15,934,000 had been made. The funds can only be used by the States for the purposes laid down by the Commonwealth Act and arrangements for debt adjustment may not be made unless the State authorities are first satisfied that the farmer has a reasonable prospect of recovery. Schemes for debt adjustment would also need to comply with the requirements of the Commonwealth Bankruptcy Act, as amended. The grants provided to the States may be used by the States to make grants or loans to farmers. Repayments of loans to the States may only be used by the States for purposes authorised by the Commonwealth Act. 
and (5) The number of applications for assistance made under this legislation in the various States during the last 5 years is not known to the Commonwealth. This information would have to be obtained from the State Governments. 
The purpose of the Commonwealth legislation was to enable the States to assist farmers generally, in the economically depressed conditions of the 1930s to make compositions or schemes of arrangements with their creditors in respect of their debts. However, to the extent that drought-affected farmers incur debts and are eligible for assistance, the legislation may be said to be of assistance to drought affected farmers. 
Total Commonwealth grants paid to the States under the Farmers' Debt Adjustment Act are as follows: 

<graphic href="045232197008191_14_0.jpg"></graphic>

No grants have been made to the States under this legislation since 1943. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has supplied the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Government is aware that, due to a variety of causes, financial difficulties are being experienced in some sectors of the rural economy. It is not possible to say with any precision how many farmers are, or may be, affected. 
Under the Commonwealth Banks Act 1959, which came into operation in January, 1960, the Mortgage Bank and Industrial Finance Departments of the former Commonwealth Bank of Australia were amalgamated to form the basis of the Commonwealth Development Bank. It was considered that, by combining these two Departments and by giving the Commonwealth Development Bank specific functions and additional resources to provide assistance to primary producers and industrial undertakings, a wider range of needs could be met than under the previous arrangements. 
The Commonwealth, through the Reserve Bank, arranges for the trading banks to provide preferential treatment in their lending to the rural export industries. The negotiation of individual loans is, however, a private matter between the banks and their clients. In such negotiations, all the facts relating to each proposal can be considered. 
The Minister for Repatriation has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
There has been no change in the relevant New Zealand legislation of the kind mentioned by the Honourable  Senator. However,  in practice the New Zealand War Pensions Board has, since 1967.. supplied to all persons who lodge an appeal to the War Pensions Appeal Board, details of the enlistment medical examination, disabilities suffered during service and other information relevant to the claimed disability. After this summary of fact and medical opinion the Board gives its reason for the decision which gave rise to the appeal. My information is that the reasons for decisions are couched in short and fairly general terms. 
Statistics provided by the New Zealand authorities do not indicate any significant changes in the proportion of claims or appeals allowed since 1967. 
Underthe Australian repatriation system, an appellant to an Assessment or Entitlement Appeal Tribunalhas available to him a detailed summary of the evidence and information about his case and on which the decision appealed against has been made. This enables him to prepare and present his appeal to the appropriate tribunal, and in doing so to introduce further evidence and comment on any relevant issue.I do not see any need for a change in the existing arrangments, which have operated satisfactorily for many years. 
The Minister for Repatriation has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Whilst 1 do not know in precise terms the laws and practices followed in all of the countries mentioned by the honourable senator, my understanding is that some explanation or reason for the refusal of claims may be given to unsuccessful claimants. 
As I have indicated in my reply to an earlier question asked by the honourable senator, under the Australian system an appellant has available to him a detailed summary of the evidence and information about bis case, and this enables him to introduce further evidence and comment on any relevant issue before an Appeal Tribunal. It is my view that the existing practice is soundly based, andI see no valid reason for change. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has supplied the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
I am informed by the Australian Wheat Board that any statements by the  Chairman  and members of the Board that prices are being maintained at or nearthe minimum price' tinder the International Grains Arrangement would have been made when that situation did in fact prevail - about twelve months ago. Prices generally have deterioratedto some extent since then. 
The prices at which wheatissold by the Board for export vary according to competition from wheat from other origins and arc not made available for publication. However, the Board's prices for grades other than Prime Hard, which is in short supply, presently are below theI.G.A. minima for the grades concerned, having regard to currently prevailing transportation costs and exchange rates. This is also the case with most grades of wheat being sold by other exporter members of theI.G.A. 
The Government, with theco-operation of the Board, has been endeavouring to restore prices to a more satisfactory level through consultations with other member exporters. These consultations have been largely responsible for stabilising prices at about their present level and avoiding a furt her decline in world prices in the present over-supply situation. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
As mentioned in reply to a question asked by the honourable senator on this subject last year, the distribution of the book 'Wool Disposals 1945-1952 - The Joint Organisation' written by  Sir Edwin  McCarthy is in the hands of the Australian Wool Board. 
The answers to the specific queries raised are as follows: 
The distribution of complimentary copies of the book to individuals and organisations, itemised as requested, is set out below: 
To individuals - 82 copies. 
To federal woolgrower organisations and their respective State affiliated bodies - 16 copies. 
To members of the Commonwealth and Slate Parliaments - Nil. 
To capital city and country libraries - 24 copies. 
To the Australian National University - 2 copies. 
To other individuals and organisations in Australia, including members of the Australian Wool Industry Conference - 64 copies. 
The circulation of the Australian Wool Board's newsheet 'Wool News Digest' is currently 2,200 and increasing each month; the press and other news media are on the circulation list. The availability of the book 'Wool Disposals 1945-1952' was publicised in the 'Digest' in October 1968 after supplies of the book had been received by the Wool Board. The book was publicised again in the June 1970 issue of the Digest'. 
Booksellers have not been circularised regarding the availability of the book. It has always been the Wool Board's intention that the history should be an authoritative document of reference and not a commercial venture. 
The South African Wool Board received 5 complimentary copies as did the New Zealand Wool Board. The latter Board subsequently purchased 200 copies. Two hundred and fifty copies were distributed gratis to members of the International Wool Textile Organisation, wool trade organisations in England, some Government libraries in the United Kingdom, the International Wool Study Group and the Commonwealth Secretariat. 
Free distribution of the book to all woolgrowers would be a costly undertaking. Despite publicity and a free distribution to woolgrower organisations, the interest shown in the book by woolgrowers at large has been disappointing. So far, only 33 copies have been sold. Accordingly, the kind of blanket distribution proposed could well result in the history being sent to many persons who would not bother to read it. This would obviously be wasteful. Anyone who is interested in obtaining the book can obtain a copy from the Wool Board at a nominal charge. For the foregoing reasons the Government is not prepared to arrange  a  free issue of the history to all woolgrowers. 
The Minister for Repatriation has provided the following answers to the honourable senator's question: 
and (2) As the honourable senator is aware, there was dissatisfaction in the nursing profession generally, as well as among Repatriation nurses, with the level of salary increases granted by the Arbitration authorities in May 1970, for nurses employed at the Canberra Community Hospital. However, since then further salary increases have been granted to nurses employed at that hospital. 
After a review by the Commonwealth Public Service Board, which took into account general movements in nursing salaries elsewhere, the salaries of nursing staff at the Repatriation General Hospital, Concord, and at other institutions in the Commonwealth service, were substantially increased from 21st May last, in line with increases granted to the Canberra Hospital nurses. More recently, further increases in the salaries of these nurses have been granted again in line with the latest increases granted to the Canberra Hospital nurses. 
In total, increases in basic salary for nurses employed in the Commonwealth service have ranged from $613-726 a year for nursing sisters to $895-928 a year for senior sisters. In addition, substantial increases have been granted to more senior executive nursing staff. 
Increases for nursing and senior sisters that were granted in May are now being paid and the further increases will be paid within the next few weeks. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
Yes. 
Lambs are indeed susceptible to contamination withboth faeces and wool. However, it is well recognised that the younger the sheep, the easier it is for the slaughterman to remove the skin and to carry out other dressing operations predisposing to contamination. Therefore the problem of contamination isof least concern in lambs and of greatest concern to older sheep. 
As sheep increase in age and have greater contact with bacteria and parasites, the incidence of bacterial infections and parasitic infestations increase. Therefore inspection problems are progressively magnified as age increases. The diseases which are at the moment causing concern to overseas inspection authorities are, in fact, regarded as being harmless to man. 
The Minister for the Army has supplied the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
No Army members transferred to Vietnam from Malaysia (or anywhere else) for the purpose of enabling them to become eligible to receive War Service benefits. 
As necessary, members are allotted for 'Special Duty' in Vietnam and in these circumstances they become entitled to War Service benefits. A minimum qualifying period is not applicable except for those benefits which accrue on a time basis, such as War Service leave. 
Members are only alloted for 'Special Duty' where: 
They are on the posted strength of a unit located in South Vietnam (other than the Military Attaches staff). 
They perform duties in South Vietnam that are portion of the duties and responsibilities of units located in Vietnam. 
Members visiting South Vietnam on liaison duties, for training or orientation or to perform duties associated with their parent unit which is located outside South Vietnam are not allotted to Special Duty' are not entitled to War Service benefits unless injured or wounded or suffer illness as a direct result of hostile action. 
During the period 31st July 1962-26th June 1970 219 officers, have been allotted for short term Special Duty' in the South Vietnam Zone from Australian Army units in Malaysia. 
The Australian Labor Party has seen fit this afternoon to move an urgency motion following the introduction of the Budget last night. The statement on the matter of urgency is: 
The urgent need for the reconstruction of the rural economy including constructive national drought policy. 
I do not think any of us would contradict the assertion that the primary industries of this country are in a very serious situation. For some years now the continent of Australia has gone through a number of years of very drastic droughts. Long periods have occurred in which there was very little rain in Queensland, northern New South Wales and in the last 12 months, in Western Australia. Many farmers throughout the continent have received very little income over this period.  Senator O'Byrne  commenced his contribution this afternoon by pointing his finger at the Australian Country Party. He said that it was partly responsible for the situation in which primary producers now find themselves. I refer to a situation of falling prices and climbing costs of production. This position is not applicable only to Australia. It is to be found also in Canada, the United States of America, Great Britain and France, but so far as I know none of those countries has a Country Party. 
I do not understand why  Senator O'Byrne  moved his motion this afternoon, following last night the introduction of the Budget in which the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  stated that about $2 15m is to be made available to primary industries. I do not see why  Senator O'Byrne  did not wait to learn the full details of the Budget provisions for assistance to primary industries. I think all honourable senators recognise the difficulties facing primary industries at present. There is no question about that. I know from my own experience in Western Australia that the wheat, wool and dairy industries have faced a difficult period in the last year. A drastic fall in wool prices has combined with a continuing rise in costs and has been compounded by a severe drought in large areas of Australia. The result is that the position in some regions has reached a calamitous stage. 
The Government has been concerned at the plight of the wool industry, not only because of the hardships suffered by people in that industry but also because of its great importance to the Australian economy. If the wool industry is to continue to provide a major share of Australia's export income as well as to remain the basis of livelihood for so much of the rural area of Australia, it is essential that its viability be preserved. The present crisis in the industry requires a comprehensive approach involving immediate and long term measures. Prolonged drought and low wool prices have placed many wool growers in an almost impossible position in which they require emergency finance. 
Honourable senators will be aware that incomes from wool growing have fallen markedly in the last year. The aggregate income from shorn wool declined by about SI 00m to S687m in 1969-70. I do not think the severity of the blow experienced by individual wool growers has been generally appreciated. The Government has been giving detailed consideration to the problems being experienced by wool growers and the ways that are open to place the industry on a sound basis. The Government has a number of proposals before it. However, the total approach is essentially long term. Improvements to wool marketing, research into the problems of the industry, debt reconstruction and farm adjustment necessarily take time, but short term urgent measures are clearly needed to prevent a loss of confidence in the industry which would be reflected throughout the whole economy. 
The only concrete statement made this afternoon by  Senator O'Bryne  was that the men in primary industries need help now. The Government realises that they need help now. That is why the Treasurer announced last night that the Minister for 
Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  would make in the House today a statement explaining in detail the basis upon which S30m is to be made available for emergency relief of the wool industry.  Senator O'Byrne  referred to long term interest rates - I am quite sure that my colleagues from Queensland know many people in drought areas of Queensland who could not borrow another cent. Long term interest rates are of no use to them. They want assistance now. That is why the Government has included in the Budget provision for that assistance to be given now. 
Are we all in agreement on that move? Perhaps honourable senators opposite who will speak in this debate on behalf of the Labour Party are in favour of such assistance, but I wish to read to the Senate an extract from an article which appeared in the 'Australian Financial Review'. It reported that  Mr Hawke, President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions, had declared that his organisation would strongly resist further efforts by employers and the Government to use arguments about the cost-price squeeze. Surely the costprice squeeze is one of the greatest problems in primary industries at present. Yet  Mr Hawke  the leader of the Labor Movement declared that they would resist any further arguments on the basis of the costprice squeeze.  Mr Hawke  went on to refer to the use of those arguments by farmers to hold down wage levels. He said that he did not deny that some farmers were in financial trouble. It could be judged from  Senator O'Byrne's  speech this afternoon that all the farmers are in financial trouble and that there is not a solvent farmer in the country. But  Mr Hawke  recognised the fact that some farmers are in financial trouble. 
This report appeared in the 'Australian Financial Review' on 19th February.  Mr Hawke  said that he did not deny that some farmers were in financial trouble, but he went on to say that these were almost solely small and inefficient marginal farmers. That is what the leader of the Labor movement had to say. This afternoon  Senator O'Byrne  told us his side of the story. The 
Australian Financial Review' went on, in its report about  Mr Hawke,  to say: 
The cost-price squeeze argument, he said - and this is what we are here today about - amounted to little more than a plea for maintenance of a rural production structure which includes a substantial number of inefficient marginal producers without whom we would all be better off. 
That is the voice of the great Labor movement, speaking earlier in the year when it was said that something could have been done to prevent the situation that has arisen now. 1 turn now to another member of the Labor movement. Recently I came across a report of a statement made by the man who is now the Leader of the Federal Labor Party. Although the statement was made some years ago, it surely reveals the line of thinking of the present Leader of the Labor Party and it must have some effect on the people who sit behind him. 
I understand that the Minister for Primary Industry has been having a good look at this question, but I further understand that in some States the machinery has practically gone out of existence. But I will take the question up with the Minister and get some information for the honourable senator. 
Whereever possible the Army endeavours to use the civilian skills of a trainee. However, in order to obtain further information I will take the matter up with the Minister for the Army and give the honourable senator a considered reply. 
by leave - The 1969-70 season was an exceptionally difficult time for the wool industry. A drastic fall in wool prices combined with a continuing rise in costs was compounded by severe drought in large parts of Australia which in some regions had reached a  calamitous stage. The Government has been concerned at the plight of the industry not only because of the hardship suffered but also because of the great importance of the industry to the Australian economy. If wool is to continue to provide a major share of Australia's export income as well as to remain the basis of livelihood for much of the rural areas of Australia, it is essential that the industry's viability be preserved. The present crisis in the industry requires a comprehensive approach which involves both immediate and longer term measures. Prolonged drought and low wool prices have placed many wool growers in an almost impossible position where they require emergency financial assistance. 
Honourable senators will be aware that wool incomes have fallen markedly over the last year. Aggregate realisation on shorn wool sold has declined by some $100m to S687.2m in 1969-70. However, the severity of the fall for individual wool growers is not generally appreciated. Some 90% of this decline occurred in Queensland, Western Australia and New South Wales. In Queensland the wool cheque was 36% down, representing an average fall of about $8,000 per property. In Western Australia wool proceeds were 23% lower or $3,000 per property. These are only average figures with many wool growers faring much worse. Although Government aid has been of material assistance in drought areas, many producers have also had to bear costs of drought feeding, losses from forced sales of stock at low prices and the death of a proportion of their flocks. The Government has been giving detailed consideration to the problems being experienced by wool growers and the ways which are open to place the industry on a sound basis. The Government has before it a number of proposals. However the total approach is essentially long term. Further improvements to wool marketing, research toto industry problems and debt reconstruction and farm adjustment necessarily take time. Short term urgent measures are clearly needed to prevent a loss of confidence in the industry, which would reflect throughout the whole economy. 
The Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  has announced the decision to provide emergency assistance for 1 year to those wool growers who are largely dependent on wool and whose incomes have fallen markedly in 1969-70. 
The assistance will be given by way of a grant within a total amount of §30m. Because individual entitlements will depend upon the number of applications lodged, it is not possible to announce the extent of entitlements. The payment to any individual will, as a maximum, be no more than $1,500. To assist in the speedy processing of claims, it is not proposed to pay those involving an amount of less than S50. The Government is most concerned to ensure that the assistance be directed primarily to those most in need. It is the intention to assist all growers who have been unduly affected by the drought and by low prices. On the other hand, it is reasonable to expect the wool grower to carry some of the loss as a normal hazard associated with the production of wool. With this in mind, the assistance will be based on half the average fall in wool prices in 1969-70, that is, 8%. The amount of assistance will be related to the difference between gross wool income in the year ended 30th June 1970 and 92% of the wool income for the previous year. 
In order to ensure that only those wool growers who are largely dependent on wool for their living receive a grant, assistance will be confined to persons receiving a substantial proportion of their total income from wool. Eligibility for full assistance will be limited to growers whose gross income from wool made up at least 50% of their total gross income from all sources in the year ended 30th June 1969; but there will be a phasing out arrangement, with assistance ceasing where gross income from wool is 334%. From the foregoing it can be seen that applications should be made only by woolgrowers who obtained at least one-third of their income from wool in the year ended 30th June 1969 and who suffered a fall in gross income from wool of more than 8% between the years ended 30th June 1969 and 1970. Under these conditions, a large part of the grant will be going to persons in Queensland, New South Wales and Western Australia who have been affected by drought. The Government has been mindful of the views of the Advisory Committee of the Australian Wool Board that immediate relief was necessary, and has taken account of the principles enunciated by the Committee, in formulating the principles on which the assistance is to be given, subject to administrative feasibility and simplicity. As this assistance is to meet an emergency situation it is essential that it be made available as soon as possible. If we are to avoid any undue delay it is inevitable that some anomalies may well be unavoidable. Where these can be shown to have a particularly adverse effect because of the circumstances of an individual woolgrower these will be considered as sympathetically as possible. Further details of the grant will be made available to woolgrowers iri the near future. It is not possible to calculate the total entitlement of woolgrowers until all applications have been lodged; accordingly it is proposed to make an early interim payment on each claim. 
In order to ensure that payments are finalised as soon as possible, woolgrowers must submit their applications by 30th November 1970. Claims for assistance received after this date will be considered only if the total fund has not been exhausted. Application forms for assistance will be available at post offices within the next few weeks. I must ask eligible woolgrowers to submit these promptly. This scheme should materially assist hard-hit woolgrowers to survive the immediate crisis. However, the emergency assistance outlined here today can be only a first step. As I stated earlier, the Government will be seeking appropriate longer term measures to overcome the fundamental problems of the industry. 
As my colleague the Treasurer has said, the need for reconstruction in the wool industry will be examined as a matter of urgency. The problem of debt and debt servicing is a critical one for many people particularly in the drought stricken areas. For some farmers such measures as debt reconstruction would offer a way out of present difficulties. Arrangements now being operated in some States or operated prewar illustrate some of the possibilities to be considered. The selection of appropriate arrangements needs to bc carefully considered or the result could well be to put some woolgrowers into deeper trouble, with an even bigger financial millstone around their necks. Long term debt reconstruction would be of assistance only to those producers whose businesses are basically sound and have good prospects of servicing the capital value of their debt after debt reconstruction has taken place. The problems of many producers finding difficulty in meeting their debts can be solved only by more fundamental reconstruction of their properties. Debt restructuring must therefore be tied in with farm adjustment. The Bureau of Agricultural Economics has been asked to investigate and report to me on the immediate and longer term needs for debt reconstruction and farm adjustment. While the necessary investigation of all aspects of these matters will require some time, the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  has asked the Bureau to make a preliminary report to him at the earliest possible opportunity for consideration by the Government. 
The Government recognises that any total approach to the problems of the wool industry entails close attention to wool marketing. It has before it a proposal submitted by representatives of the wool industry for the establishment of a statutory wool marketing authority to administer the marketing of the Australian wool clip. The plan was prepared by the Advisory Committee of the Australian Wool Board at the request of the Australian Wool Industry Conference. The Advisory Committee was under a great deal of pressure to complete its report. The Minister had asked it to provide a quick picture of the total wool scene including reference to the marketing structure proposed by the industry. As the Treasurer mentioned in his budget speech, the Government has under examination all aspects of the setting up and operation of such an authority. A close analysis of the proposal is required and this is being undertaken by the Government as a matter of considerable urgency. On behalf of the Government the Minister will be in consultation with the industry on the marketing plan and when the details have been finalised it can then be put to the Government and the industry for consideration. In the interim the Minister trusts that the various sectors of the wool industry will not prejudge the issue but will wait until the details have been worked out. 
Close attention has also been given to the potential benefit of technical innovations in the marketing of wool. To assist the industry in its own efforts to reduce the present high costs associated with the handling and sale of wool, the Government has agreed to guarantee approved loans obtained by the Australian Wool Board for the construction and equipping of integrated wool selling complexes where these can be shown to provide benefits to the industry. Further, the application of objective measurement of wool prior to its sale could well lead to the sale of wool by sample which offers the prospect of considerable cost savings and other advantages. To this end the Government has agreed to provide a sum of about$1. 5m over  2  years to finance research and trials into the feasibility of introducing pre-sale objective measurement of wool on a commercial basis. 
The measures which the Minister has outlined above will operate concurrently with the assistance which has been announced earlier, namely, the halving of the levy paid by wool growers for promotion and research and a doubling of the Government's contribution in this field as well as the financial aid given by the Government for the operation of the current wool marketing price averaging plan. All these measures, together with those which the Government has under immediate consideration represent a concerted approach designed to deal with the real and pressing problems of wool growers and to restore confidence and prosperity in Australia's major rural industry. I move: 
That the Senate take note of the statement. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Devitt)  adjourned. 
It was a long, general question, and if it is placed on notice I will reply to it. 
The answer to the honourable senator's  question  is  as  follows: 

<graphic href="045232197008250_16_0.jpg"></graphic>

The honourable senator expressed to me earlier today his interest in obtaining information as to the amount of meat being exported to the United States of America under the quota system, so I have obtained the following information for him. To date, 184,632 tons of meat have been shipped to the United States of America. Allowable shipments to the United States of America for 1970, including rejections, are estimated to be 249,000 tons. This leaves 64,368 tons to be shipped. The Australian Meat Board decided this month that there would be no change in the diversification factors or in administrative arrangements at this stage. At an industry meeting to be held on 21st September 1970 consideration will be given to the progress of the scheme and arrangements for the diversification year commencing 1st November 1970. Although severe drought conditions are prevailing in Queensland, export statistics available to date do not show any marked effect in the level of exports. In fact, in the first 7 months of 1970 exports of beef and veal from Queensland, at 102,000 tons, are 2,000 tons above those for the same period last year. 
I am aware that there is, and has been for some time, a shortage of meat inspectors throughout Australia. 
I am answering the question. There are some difficulties in providing this inspection service for export industries. At present certain inspectors are taking their vacation. In the past they were unable to do so due to the pressure of work. Their vacations are being spaced to cause the minimum inconvenience. Some inspectors have not been able to take a holiday for 2 or 3 years because of pressure of work. Recently the number of positions of inspector was increased. The Department of Primary Industry is conducting an advertising campaign to try to fill further positions. The position of meat inspector has been upgraded and made a permanent position within the Department. By doing all these things the Government hopes to build up a situation in which the meat industry will have sufficient meat inspectors. 
I believe that the situation is as the honourable senator has described it. When speaking last week on the matter of urgency raised by the Opposition in the Senate in respect of rural industries I made the point that  Mr Hawke  said earlier this year that he did not believe that the cost-price squeeze affected all farmers, but only the farmers who were inefficient or who were past helping. I do not know whom  Mr Hawke  thinks today's actions will help. 
A referendum of growers of dried fruits was held earlier this year - in March - to decide whether the stabilisation scheme should be renewed. At present intra.industry discussions on this matter are taking place, lt is hoped that from these discussions will come a scheme with which the industry can proceed. 
My attention has been drawn to the devaluation action taken by Turkey. That action has resulted in quotes for Turkish exported dried fruits being made at special prices. The honourable senator may recall that recently the signatories to the International Sultana Agreement - Turkey is one of the signatories - held a meeting. I think it was held in June. A decision was made that the Agreement was to be carried on for a further year. Discussions took place at the meeting on the devaluation of Turkey's currency and the fact that the Agreement had been under some pressure for some time because of its continued breaching by Greece. I will discuss the other part of the honourable senator's question with the Minister for Primary Industry and let him have a further reply. 
1 have seen a report in the Press and I am very happy to say that the price of wheat has jumped by $3.75 a ton in the last fortnight, making it $63.75 a ton instead of $60 a ton. There has been a strong demand for Australian wheat as was stated by  Dr Callaghan, Chairman  of the Australian Wheat Board only recently. However, 1 point out that despite the improved prospects of the Australian crop we still have about 500 million bushels to dispose of. 
I am not aware of the details to which the honourable member refers. I shall approach the Minister for Primary Industry and obtain some information for the honourable senator, and I shall give it to him when I receive it. 
I think the honourable senator would realise that when I first took over this portfolio I expressed concern about the rate of allowances paid to those engaged in the particular Service for which I am responsible. I referred in one instance to flying allowances. I can say to the honourable senator that 1 was in the crew room at the Butterworth Air Force base when I announced an increase in flying allowances. In some cases it was almost a 100% increase. If any honourable senator had been there with me at the time he would have noticed the favourable reaction I received when I made the announcement. There was an atmosphere of almost complete jubilation. But since that time a great amount of misconception has arisen about flying allowances and I think that the matter is getting out of hand. 
I have not said that. A committee has been examining the question of the rates of pay and conditions applying in the Services. For a long time the representatives on this committee have been studying the rates of pay and allowances paid to members of all the Services. The Air Force is represented on this committee by the head of my Department. The committee has made a number of recommendations which are presently being examined. Some of them, such as the increase in flying allowances, have been accepted by the Government. Other recommendations are about to be examined by the Government, and no doubt in due course further announcements will be made. 
There has been a great deal of speculation as to whether we should have tanker aircraft with the Phantoms. On the flight out from America, under the lease arrangements a tanker will be coming with the aircraft. With regard to our own position in Australia, we are studying the tanker situation at present. The aircraft mentioned by writers are the KC135 and the CI 41, but these aircraft are no longer being manufactured. Consequently, at present we are looking at the situation to see whether we can have an aircraft to serve the dual role of transport cum tanker. The aircraft which we are considering is the Boeing 707-320, but until my Department has carried out a thorough examination we will not know what the situation is. Many aviation writers are overlooking the fact that our Phantoms will have external tanks which will give them a very much greater range than the writers are stating in their articles. 
I seek leave to make a statement relating to Notice of Motion No. 1, Business of the Senate, in the name of  Senator Wood. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
The notice of motion by  Senator Wood  relates to the disallowance of the amendments of the Military Financial (Pacific Islanders) Regulations, contained in Statutory Rules 1970 No. 51. Since notice of motion was given, discussions have been held between officers of the Department of the Army and the Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances relating to the Committee's concern with the provisions in those regulations. As a result of the discussions amendments have been drafted which will overcome the Committee's objection. These have been submitted to the Executive Council for approval. 
1 cannot comment on that. At the present time this matter is under investigation. When the investigation is completed I will consult the Minister for the Army to ascertain the position. 
 I am well aware of the concern in the wool industry at the present time over the price of wool. The industry has every right to be concerned because current prices are the lowest paid for about 20 years. I feel sure that the honourable senator is well aware that the price averaging plan commenced operations within the marketing set-up in July and this plan became operative during the sales that commenced in Sydney and Melbourne on 17th August. In the past the brokers association has been responsible for putting out the weekly average price for wool, but under the price averaging plan for wool selling the Australian Wool Marketing Corporation Ltd is responsible for up to about 40 per cent of the wool; thus the brokers are not in a position to give the average price for weekly sales. Although the price averaging plan has been in operation for only a few weeks I can readily understand the problems which arise. I shall certainly discuss with the Minister for Primary Industry the honourable senator's question and see whether we can't get the Corporation to make available these weekly average prices. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
Due to operational commitments it is not possible to station a helicopter permanently at the Townsville RAAF Base. However, you are assured that RAAF helicopters are available to react promptly in response to any request for support in the Townsville area in respect of floods or similar emergencies. 
It is true that we will bring 50 New Zealand meat inspectors to Australia. They will be brought here immediately, as a result of arrangements made with the New Zealand Government following the Government's awareness of the concern among parliamentarians and people in the meat industry about the ability of abattoirs to cope with mutton and Iamb killings this season. The New Zealand inspectors will be here for 2 to 3 months. Last week, when I answered  a  question on similar lines, I pointed out that some of the present meat inspectors, because of the pressure of work, had not been able to take a holiday for about 3 years and that the Government, through the Public Service Board, had upgraded the position of meat inspector and had rostered meat inspectors so that they would be able to take their leave. Following negotiations with the Public Service Board aimed at improving the conditions of local inspectors, the number of permanent positions has been increased from 615 to 1,100. Another 100 temporary positions have been established. The wage level has been increased considerably and gradings have been adjusted so that the local inspectors can receive higher salaries. I shall give an example of the salaries being paid to meat inspectors. The salary range of meat inspectors, grade 1, has been increased from $3,531-$4,293 to $3,948-$4,800. I could refer to the salary of a number of other grades of inspectors but I do not wish to bore the Senate with these figures. If  Senator McManus  would like a copy of them later I will give one to him. 
I well recall that in the last sessional period the honourable senator asked me a question about meat inspectors and about conditions prevailing within the industry. 1 have not all the answers to his question because 1 do not know when the Public Service Board agreed to the payment of increased salaries. I will check that. The information I have is that the number of permanent positions has been increased from 615 to 1,100. Also 100 temporary positions have been created. 
 1 will have to check that. Those are the figures that I have. What the honourable senator has raised is important, but the lamb killing season is in full swing at present. If a farmer wants to get the top price for his lambs he has to sell them at the right time. If through a shortage of meat inspectors he is unable to have his lambs killed, they lose their bloom and prices drop accordingly. In some cases already this year prices have dropped to half of what should have been obtained. 
Yes, 1 said 'half. 
That is why the Government has gone out of its way to bring these temporary inspectors from New Zealand. But I shall have a look at the question which the honourable senator has asked, take it up with the Minister for Primary Industry and get a reply for the honourable senator. 
I am aware of the fact that representations have been made by the citrus growers, but I am not aware whether these representations have been made to the Minister for  Primary  Industry. I shall certainly take the matter up with the Minister. I shall provide the honourable senator with a reply to his question as soon as possible. 
 I understand that the Minister for Primary Industry expects to receive this week a report setting out the details of a proposed wool marketing authority. As honourable senators know, the Minister for Primary Industry has said in another place that he will present the detailed proposals to the Government and the wool industry for consideration. A meeting of the Australian Wool Industry Conference has been arranged for 14th October. The proposals will be put before this meeting for discussion. The proposals, which are based on a report of an advisory committee of the Australian Wool Board, have been drawn up and officers of the Department of Primary Industry,  Sir John  Crawford and officials of the wool industry are having a look at them at present. That is the position as far as I am aware. 
Pursuant to section 7 of the Tobacco Industry Act 1955-1965, I present the Fifteenth Annual Report on the operation of the Act for the year ended 30th June 1970. 
I have always understood that a question based on a newspaper report is out of order, so I think the honourable senator's question is out of order. 


 Senator Lawrie, like a number of other honourable senators in this chamber from Queensland has been interested in the matter of drought for some time. Some time' ago he expressed to me his interest in this meeting and 1 obtained the following information for him: I understand that the meeting in Sydney today, attended by representatives of all States and the Commonwealth at departmental level, is the first meeting of the new Consultative Committee on Drought. This Committee was set up by the Australian Agricultural Council at its last meeting. The Committee has been established to consider recurring drought problems on an interstate, multiState or Commonwealth-State basis. Drought is virtually a normal feature of Australia's weather pattern,' and the Committee hopes to be able to examine matters such as drought relief, rehabilitation and mitigation, and means of combating drought or at least lessening its effects on our rural industries. 
The Committee's immediate objective can be summed up as attempting to give greater predictability to the ways in which governments and farmers respond to drought. The Committee wants to coordinate and standardise where practicable and desirable, the various kinds of relief measures provided. This will allow farmers to know in advance the nature and extent of the assistance they can expect. I think honourable senators will agree with me that no committee can take away from the farmer himself the primary responsibility to do all he can on his own property to fortify himself against the droughts which will inevitably affect him. However, the Government will continue to give him material encouragement to do this. 
 I noticed the report to which the honourable senator has referred. All I can say is that the programme to return all Fill aircraft to operational status is proceeding. I understand that nearly 100 aircraft have been through the test and that about half of that number have been returned to operational squadrons. 
I will come to that. Al present the programme is being monitored closely by Australian engineers and scientists in both Australia and America. The results of the programme and their relevance to the RAAF's F1J IC aircraft are being assessed continually. As the Minister for Defence said some time ago, a judgment will be made towards the end of next year at the earliest on whether the aircraft ultimately will reach the operational technical requirements of the RAAF. 
I do know. 
I do recall saying that 6 pilots had been fully trained or were receiving training at the time the honourable senator asked a question about Phantom aircraft. At present about 20 Australian pilots are in the United States receiving training on Phantom aircraft. Two of the pilots of the 5 Phantoms that arrived yesterday are Australians. They have received about 30 hours training on Phantoms and will go on to receive about 90 hours training before they become fully operational. Some of the American pilots who arrived yesterday will be staying in Australia to train pilots at Amberley on Phantoms. No doubt when our pilots become more experienced they will become instructors on Phantoms. At this moment I cannot give the number of pilots who are partly or fully trained on Phantoms. 
For the information of honourable senators I present the interim annual report of the Australian Meat Board for the year ended 30th June 1970. When the final report is available I shall present it in accordance with statutory requirements. 
I am not aware of any plans by Associated Products and Distribution Pty Ltd to expand. I understand that the company processes peas and other vegetables in Victoria. Any decision to engage in primary production in South Australia would, of course, be a matter of judgment for the company only. Because of the bountiful season in 1969 production of frozen peas exceeded the requirements of the domestic market although I understood exports increased in that period. In 1970 production was reduced because some stocks were carried over from the previous season but as is normal contracts were negotiated between the growers and the processors. 1 understand that in some areas acreages were reduced. The Commonwealth is not in a position to compel any processor to accept a limitation of production. From statements made in the 'Australian Financial Review' of 11th September I understand that the profits of Pict Ltd for the year ended June 1970 were down to $197,764 from $440,204, reducing the earning rate from 42.5 per cent to 16.3 per cent. I am informed that an orderly marketing plan for frozen peas has been proposed. The Government would welcome any plan if it could be agreed upon with all concerned in the production and marketing chain. Such a plan would bring stability to the producing and processing sections of the industry and at the same time protect consumers. 
Fill AIRCRAFT 
Pursuant to section 28 of the Dried Fruits Export Control Act 1924-1966 I present the forty-sixth annual report of the Australian Dried Fruits Control Board for the year ended 30th June 1970. 
Pursuant to section 8 o the Poultry Industry 
Assistance Act 1965-1966 I present the fifth annual report on the operation of the Act for the year ended 30th June 1970. 
Pursuant to section 147 of the Defence Act 1903-1970 I present the annual report on the Royal Military College of Australia for the period 1st February 1969 to 31st January 1970. 
I am not aware of the matter the honourable senator raises but I shall certainly take it up wilh the Minister for Primary Industry to see what information 1 can obtain. When I have the information I will let the honourable senator have it as soon as possible. 
The Minister for the Army has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
I understand that Miss Archer did not accompany the concert party which left recently for Vietnam. Selections for this concert party were made by the Australian Forces Overseas Fund Organisation, not by my Department and hence I am unable to comment on the reasons why she Was not included. 
For the information of honourable senators I present the interim report of the Australian Meat Research Committee for the year ended 30th June 1970. When the final report is available it will be presented in accordance with statutory requirements. 
-) do not have the detailed information necessary to answer the honourable senator's question. I shall refer the matter to the Minister for Primary Industry and obtain an answer for the honourable senator. 
 I realise there is a lot of truth in what the honourable senator says regarding interest rates for primary industry and exporting industries in particular. At the present time I think the Minister for Primary Industry" is trying to do all in his power by way of debt restructuring. I believe this will be. one of the questions he will be looking at. At this stage I would like to convey the honourable senator's question to the Minister in the hope that he will lake it into consideration when he is doing this restructuring. 
Pursuant to section 122 of the Repatriation Act 1920-1970 1 present the annual report of the Repatriation Commission for the year ended 30th June 1970. 
I believe it has been recognised for a long time by primary producers, export industries and Ministers of the Government that hardships would be imposed on the primary industries of this country as a result of Britain's entry into the Common Market. I am not aware of the New Zealand Prime Minister's statement, but I shall have a look at it, discuss the honourable senator's question with the Minister for Primary Industry and let the honourable senator have an answer in due course. 
Pursuant to section 16 of the Chicken Meat Research Act 1969 I present the First Annual Report of the Chicken Meat Research Committee for the vear ended 30th Tune 1970. 
I think all of us are aware of the incidence of starfish in the northern waters of the Commonwealth. I am not aware of the Tasmanian situation to which  Senator O'Byrne  referred. I will direct the attention of the Minister for Primary Industry to the honourable senator's question and obtain an answer for him. 
Pursuant to section 25 of the Apple and Pear Organisation Act 1938-1966 I present the Twenty-Fourth Annual Report of the Australian Apple and Pear Board for the year ended 30th June 1970. 
All 1 can do at this time is seek information from the Minister for Primary Industry and give the honourable senator an answer at a later date. 
In answering a series of questions some time ago in regard to the subject of meat inspectors I said that, because of the shortage of meat inspectors at that time, some had been called upon to forego their leave. As a result of recent Public Service Board approval a new organisation has been created consisting of 1,000 permanent positions of meat inspector and an additional 100 temporary positions. This has been done to provide relief for the inspectors who have accumulated recreation and furlough leave to their credit. I understand that a situation did arise in Queensland whereby a meat inspector who had applied for 41 months furlough and an additional period of time off on half pay was asked to delay taking his furlough because of the shortage of meat inspectors. I understand that because he had made previous arrangements he had no other alternative but to resign from the Public Service. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
It is true that Australian farmers pay less for superphosphate than farmers in most other parts of the world. Prices quoted in overseas publications, when compared with price information obtained from Australian fertiliser manufacturers, support this contention. Table I shows the current prices in eight countries, including Australia. Further information concerning the current price of superphosphate in a number of overseas countries is being sought and will be made available to the honourable senator. The Phosphate Fertilisers Bounty effectively reduces the price of superhposphate by the full amount of the bounty, which is currently $12 per ton of single superphosphate. 
Table II sets out sales of superphosphate in Australia in the past five years. Variations in the price of superphosphate in Australia over these years are shown in Table III. The prices quoted are after deduction of the bounty and are F.O.R. ex works in each State except Tasmania where prices are at purchasers' nearest rail siding. In each State the prices are subject to discounts foi prompt payment and in some States off-peak season discounts apply. 

<graphic href="045232197009226_11_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="045232197009226_11_1.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="045232197009226_11_2.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="045232197009226_11_3.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="045232197009226_12_0.jpg"></graphic>

On 16 September 1970  Senator McManus  asked me a question concerning standards for frozen vegetables. The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer: 
Specific standards for frozen vegetables are not presently included in the Exports Regulations but for many years the Exports (Canned and Frozen Fruits) Regulations have prescribed general minimum standards applicable lo frozen vegetables for export. For example, it is required that premises in which frozen vegetables for export are prepared should be registered. A requirement of registration is that the establishment be maintained and operated at a satisfactory level of hygiene and be adequately equipped for the processes involved. The Regulations also prohibit the export of frozen vegetables unless they have been prepared under supervision of an officer of the Commonwealth Export Inspection Service. lt has been the general policy lo include specific product standards in the Exports Regulations only when there is evidence of a need for such standards and, to date, the outturn performance of Australian frozen vegetables overseas certainly has not provided cause for concern. However, should exporters of frozen vegetables consider that the lime has arrived when it is necessary to prescribe product standards for frozen vegetables, officers of my Department would bc very ready to discuss wilh them the development of such standards. 
For the information of honourable senators I present an interim statement of the activities of the Australian Egg Board for the year ended 30th June 1970. When the final report is available it will be presented in accordance with statutory requirements. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose  of the Bill  is  to  give effect to the Government's Budget proposals in the repatriation war compensation field. This Bill now before the Senate provides for higher war compensation payments by way of increases in the rates of pension for totally and permanently incapacitated  exservicemen  and those ex-servicemen who, because of the severity of their war caused disabilities, receive payments equal to the TPI rate, namely, the war-blinded, those temporarily totally incapacitated, those receiving the special rate of war pension for tuberculosis, and the severely incapacitated double amputees who receive additional amounts under the Fifth Schedule. It provides also for increases in the intermediate rate payable to those whose incapacity allows them to work only part time or intermittently. There are also increases in payments to war widows and war orphans and in the special compensation allowance. In addition, the Bill makes essential changes which will enable additional Repatriation Boards to be appointed by the Governor-General where this is thought necessary. 
I shall proceed now to explain in more detail the changes proposed. The rates for which increases are proposed in this Bil are to be found in the Schedules to the Repatriation Act. Although they are expressed in the Act as fortnightly amounts, it has long been the custom for honourable senators to refer to the weekly amounts payable and therefore I propose to follow this practice. The Bill provides for amendment to the Second Schedule to the Repatriation Act to give effect to an increase of $2 per week for the special TPI rate of pension which is payable to those people whose war-caused incapacities prevent them from earning more than a negligible percentage of a living wage, and to the war-blinded. The increase will apply also to ex-servicemen who are temporarily totally incapacitated and certain sufferers from tuberculosis. The new rate payable will be $38 per week. 
In accordance with the usual practice, the amounts payable under the first 6 items of the Fifth Schedule to the Act for serious amputations and loss of an eye are also being increased by $2 per week so that the total amount payable to pensioners with those disabilities will continue to equal the TPI rate of pension although they may be able to work. This figure is arrived at by adding these amounts to the 100 per cent general rate war pension which these seriously disabled exservicemen receive. The intermediate rate payable under the First Schedule to those who, because of war-caused incapacity, can work only part time or intermittently and are thereby unable to earn a living wage, will be increased by $1.50 per week. The new rate will be $28 per week. 
The Sixth Schedule is to be amended to provide an increase in the special compensation allowance. This allowance is payable as additional compensation to those seriously disabled ex-servicemen whose actual incapacity is assessed at from 75 per cent to 100 per cent of the general rate. The increase will be $1 per week at the 100 per cent rate scaling down to 75c per week at the 75 per cent rate. The new rate of allowance will range from $6 per week for those whose actual incapacity is assessed at 100 per cent to $4.50 for those so assessed at 75 per cent. Increases in rates payable to war widows and war orphans are also proposed. For war widows, the Bill amends the First Schedule to the Act to provide for an increase of 50c per week in the war widow's pension. 
The Third Schedule will be amended to provide increases of 60c per week for the first child of an ex-serviceman, who dies from war causes, and 75c for the second and subsequent children. For a double orphan, that is a child who has also lost the other parent, the increase will be $1.85 per week. The new weekly war pension rales will be as follows: 

<graphic href="045232197009226_17_6.jpg"></graphic>

I turn now to the amendments in relation to repatriation boards to which I made earlier reference. A repatriation board, as honourable senators will know, is the first of the independent determining authorities to consider claims for repatriation pensions and associated benefits and is responsible for the reassessment of pensions as the occasion requires. The boards are appointed by the Governor-General and are comprised of a  chairman  and 2 other members, 1 of whom is selected from lists of names submitted by ex-service organisations. There is .1 board in each State, some of which, depending upon their workloads, operate on a part-time basis only. The volume of work submitted to the Repatriation Board in New South Wales last year pointed up the urgent need to appoint a second board in that State if cases are to be dealt with in the way intended by the Repatriation Act. Similar pressures in other States have been met by extending the periods of sitting of the boards all of which had been operating on less than a full-time basis. The Act as it now stands permits the appointment of 1 board only in each State. 
The amendment I am proposing will provide the necessary power to appoint additional boards if and where required. The Bill also appropriates the Consolidated 
Revenue Fund to the extent necessary to provide during the current year the additional benefits to which the Bill gives effect. All of the foregoing amendments will come into force on the date on which the amending Act receives the royal assent and the pension increases will be paid on and from the first pension pay day thereafter. A table which sets out in full the repatriation Budget details including those covered by this Bill has been prepared. It is available for information and, for convenience, has been attached to copies of this speech which are being circulated. The measures I have outlined represent further significant advances in the repatriation war pensions area and I commend the Bill to the Senate! 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Bishop)  adjourned. 
1 move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. The Bill before the Senate is in accordance with the usual practice of the Government to keep the rates of pensions and allowances payable to seamen war pensioners under the Seamen's War Pensions and Allowances Act in line with the similar rates payable to other war pensioners under the Repatriation Act. The purpose of the Bill is to increase, in relation to seamen, the various rates of pension as announced by my colleague the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  in his Budget speech, and being put into effect by the current Repatriation Bill. 
Paragraph (a) of clause 3 of the Bill increases the 'intermediate' rate of war pension by S3 per fortnight to $56. The intermediate' pension is paid to seriously disabled persons whose war caused incapacities render them incapable of working other than on a part time or intermittent basis. Paragraph (b) of that clause pro vides, in respect of children whose father, having been an Australian mariner coming under the Act, is dead, for an increase of $1.20 in the fortnightly rate of pension for the first child, making the rate $12 for that child, and for an increase of $1.50 to the rate of $10 for each other child. Paragraph (c) of the clause provides for an increase of $3.70 in the fortnightly rate of pension payable for each child where the mother also is dead - the 'double orphan' - bringing that rate up to $24. 
Under clause 4 the maximum rate of the special compensation allowance, provided for those general rate pensioners who, although able to work, are nevertheless seriously incapacitated by war caused disability, is increased by $2 to $12 per fortnight for the 100 per cent rate pensioner. Under section 22 B (2.) of the Act the new rates will scale down proportionately to $9 per fortnight for the 75 per cent pensioner. Clause 5 of the Bill substitutes a new First Schedule to the Act to provide for an increase of $1 in the fortnightly rate of pension payable to widows of Australian mariners, the maximum rate thus becoming $34.60. 
The Bill does not have to provide for the increase of $4 to $76 per fortnight in the rate of total and permanent incapacity or TPI pension or for the increase of $4 in the fortnightly amounts payable in respect of certain disabilities described in the Fifth Schedule to the Repatriation Act, as the increase rates under that Act will apply automatically to seamen pensioners by virtue of section 22A of the Seamen's War Pensions and Allowances Act. The increases in pensions and benefits will, as usual, be payable on the first pension pay day after the date on which the Act receives the royal assent. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Bishop)  adjourned. 
I have taken up with the Minister for Primary Industry the matter that the honourable senator raised yesterday. As he requests, I shall now bring before the Minister's notice the further question which the honourable senator has asked today. 
 The 
Government is studying a proposal for the establishment of a statutory wool marketing authority. The proposal has been agreed upon in principle by the two federal grower organisations and endorsed on the same basis by the Australian Wool Industry Conference. The proposal put to the Government was prepared by an advisory committee of the Australian Wool Board and contains only a broad outline of the proposed plan. Subsequently the Minister for Primary Industry arranged for  Sir John  Crawford, with the assistance of the Department of Primary Industry and other departments, to elaborate on the proposal. The honourable senator may recall that I referred to this matter last week in answering a question. The Minister has received  Sir John's  report and it is  now  being given urgent consideration by the Government. Until a decision is made on the establishment of a statutory authority it is not possible to comment on the points raised by the honourable senator. However, I shall draw the attention of the Minister for 
Primary Industry to the honourable senator's question and shall try to obtain for him some further information at a later date. 
I am aware of the matter to which the honourable senator referred. However, I regret that I have very little information to give him because the matter to which he referred is under discussion at present by representatives of the Department of Primary Industry and authorities of the Government of the United States of America. 
 Mr Deputy President,  I suggest that for the purposes of convenience this Bill and the Seamen's War Pensions and Allowances Bill be allowed to be debated together. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
In reply to a question asked by  Senator Lillico  last week on the matter of peas, I said I had been informed that an orderly marketing plan for frozen vegetables had been proposed and that the Government would welcome a plan if it could be agreed upon by all concerned in the production and marketing chain. This would bring stability to the producing and processing sectors of the industry and protect the interests of the consumers. This plan might be the forerunner of what they are trying to achieve. That is all the information I can give the honourable senator at the present time. 
In my reply to  Senator Lillico  I was referring to a specific meat works which he had named in his question. I did not want to go any further into the matter at that time because discussions between the American authorities and representatives of the Department of Primary Industry were taking place. The United States allows the entry of Australian meat if it meets certain standards. In most cases we can meet those standards but some meat works do not pass the test. Therefore the owners are asked to bring their works up to standard. Following improvements inspections are carried out by the representatives of the Department of Primary Industry and the American authorities and if the standards are satisfactory the works are relisted for export. 
I understand that 2 meatworks have been reinstated recently, one in Brisbane and the other in Shepparton in Victoria. 
I understand that others are to be brought in very shortly. I will direct the remainder of the honourable senator's question to the Minister for Primary Industry and ask for an answer. 
I  understand that the Army has selected 2 possible sites for the establishment of an Army marine base. The first is on the shores of the Brisbane River and the second is at Cairns in north Queensland. At this stage the final decision as to where the base will be located has not been reached. 
The Government is unable to support this proposition. Therefore it will oppose the motion. 
Question put: 
That the motion  (Senator  Bishop's) be agreed to. 
The honourable senator had expressed his interest in this matter to me and I have obtained information for him. The Rural Reconstruction Board in New South Wales has been operating since 1939, and a similar institution known as the Farmers Relief Board operated between 1933 and 1939. The honourable senator will be aware that the Minister for Primary Industry asked the Bureau of Agricultural Economics to carry out an urgent investigation of the problems of debt reconstruction and farm adjustment in the sheep industry. The Bureau can be expected also, to examine repercussions of debt reconstruction and farm adjustment in the sheep industry on other industries throughout the rural sector. As part of the investigation the Bureau certainly will be considering the kind of approach adopted by the Rural Reconstruction Board in New South Wales as well as the approach adopted by similar institutions in other States. I understand that the Minister expects that the Bureau will be furnishing him with a preliminary report at an early date and that he will report to the Government as soon as possible. Until the Government has had an opportunity to consider the Bureau's report no statement on the Government's future line of action can be made. 
Yes, I will take the matter up with the Minister. The honourable senator will recall that yesterday  Senator Lillico  asked me a similar question. At the time I informed the Senate that discussions were going on at that moment between officers of the Department of Primary Industry and the United States of America authorities. I will take the honourable senator's question to the Minister and obtain some information for him. 
by leave - I find myself in some difficulty. I sought the leave of the Senate yesterday to have the Repatriation Bill and the Seamen's War Pensions and Allowances Bill debated together, which was agreed to.  Senator Bishop  then led for the Opposition on both Bills. I remember that he drew the attention of the Senate to the fact that in the other place the Opposition moved an amendment criticising the inadequacy of the repatriation legislation and proposing the appointment of a joint select committee to inquire into all aspects of repatriation.  Senator Bishop  said that the Opposition would not be moving in this chamber for the appointment of a senate select committee as this aspect would be dealt with under a separate heading. 1 find myself in a little bit of difficulty now because the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  has sought to introduce a third motion into the debate tonight. 
in reply - This Bill will be implement the Government's Budget proposals in the repatriation war compensation field. The long title of the Bill shows that it is a Bill to amend the Repatriation Act 1920-1969, as amended by the Repatriation Act 1970, so as to provide for increases in the rates of certain pensions and allowances and for additional Repatriation Boards and to appropriate the Consolidated Revenue Fund for the purpose of certain payments resulting from those amendments. In other words, the purpose of the Bill is to provide for pension allowance increases and to provide for the appointment of additional Repatriation Boards. But during the course of the debate honourable senators have taken the opportunity of ranging across the whole Repatriation Act and of referring to treatment and various other aspects of the repatriation setup. I will not take a great deal of the Senate's time traversing the speeches or referring to the Bill, other than what I have said. In the short time that I intend to take I would like to reply to some of the points made by various speakers. 
I refer firstly to some of the points made by  Senator Bishop  who opened the debate for the Opposition. He referred to the increases in allowances as being totally inadequate. I point out that there always have been critics of the Repatriation Act, either directly because of the insufficiency of the rates or indirectly by seeking to widen the condition of eligibility. 1 think this is a good thing because it certainly will keep the Department of Repatriation people on their toes to see that they do everything possible to assist the people involved. I remind  Senator Bishop  that representatives of the Returned Services League again had the opportunity of appearing before the Cabinet subcommittee on repatriation and of pulling their case to various members of the Ministry before consideration was given to the Budget. This is an opportunity that the RSL and some of the ex-servicemen's organisations enjoy each year. 1 do not think that many other organisations in the community can avail themselves of this kind of opportunity.  Senator Bishop  also referred to the fact that in past years the Opposition had supported the submissions of ex-servicemen's organisations. He proceeded to refer to the RSL war compensation plan. This year's RSL war compensation plan repeats the request that was made for the first time in 1969 for an independent non-parliamentary committee of inquiry to completely review the principal Repatriation Act and its provisions. In the last few years there have been requests for 2 separate kinds of inquiry - the non-parliamentary inquiry or committee of review and a parliamentary committee. 
Honourable senators will note that last year the Senate expressed an opinion that there ought to be a Senate committee of inquiry into repatriation matters to commence not earlier than 1st January 1970. However, no formal move to set up an inquiry has yet been made, I remind the Senate that in 1967 there was a formal motion in the Senate for the establishment of a committee. At that time the Minister and the Government opposed the idea and the motion was not successful. In short, the Government has not favoured either form of inquiry. As a general observation, the League's case, as presented in the plan, does not of itself justify an inquiry. It recites a series of changes in social standards and medical science, the strategic situation and the economy and it identifies a number of areas of repatriation activity which it would like to see examined. However, it offers no evidence that the first group of factors has not already been taken into account sufficiently in advances made in the system: nor that the parliamentary review committee is  the  only or even  the  most satisfactory way of considering specific issues. 
If  the  League's request were granted,  the  principal pension rates would rise as follows: The totally and permanently incapacitated rate would rise from $36 to $42.40, an increase of $6.40 a week;  the  general rate 100  per  cent pension would rise from $12 to $21.20, an increase of $9.20 a week:  the  war widows' pension would rise from Si 5 to S21.20. an increase of $6.20 a week. The League suggests these rates as an interim measure pending an examination of compensation payments  by  its proposed special committee.  Senator Bishop  reminded the Senate that on 3 occasions it supported what the Opposition  put  forward. The facts are that on a number of occasions the Senate has indicated  that  there should be a select, committee to examine the repatriation system and its recommendations to  the  Senate at the conclusion of  the  debate on the 1969 Repatriation estimates suggested that it commence its inquiry not earlier than 1st January 1970. 
In 1969  Senator Drury  moved that at the end of  the  motion for the second reading of the Bill certain words bc added. The Government's attitude in this matter  has  been quite clear. The late  Senator McKel-lar,  when Minister for Repatriation, went into some detail in the debate in 1969 on  Senator Murphy's  motion that a Senate, select committee be appointed to examine repatriation matters. In explaining  why  the Government did not favour the appointment of such a committee  Senator McKellar  stated that the Government's view then was that there was already a continuing opportunity for review by Parliament, through the introduction of amending legislation, notices of motion and speeches' during the adjournment debate, and by the administration itself. 

 Senator Bishop then referred to the 1943 Committee and said that the RSL and the Totally and Permanently Disabled Soldiers' Association were using the 1950 review. The 1943 Committee was primarily concerned with adopting the then Repatriation Act to meet the needs and conditions of servicemen of World War IT. The same circumstances had not recurred. In 1950, almost as soon as the Government assumed office, it conducted a review of repatriation affairs generally. As I have just said, there is continuing opportunity for review of the system to be conducted by Parliament and by other means. 

 Senator Bishop referred to the case put forward by the Returned Services League for extending repatriation hospital, medical and pharmaceutical benefits. In the past few years there have been numerous requests from organisations and individuals representing ex-servicemen for the provision of free treatment and services for veterans of the Boer War and World War I. Proposals have varied from hospital treatment of the acute phase of an illness to full medical and hospital treatment services; and from treatment for all of the veterans to those who served overseas. 
Those people who are disabled through war service and on existing means test standards are judged to be needy are already entitled to medical and hospital treatment. Thus the proposal to extent treatment facilities to Boer War and World War I ex-servicemen would benefit only those veterans who are neither seriously incapacitated because of war service nor in financial need.  Senator Bishop  also referred to the funeral grant. This has always been a grant towards the cost of a funeral and has never been intended to cover the full cost. A number of other speakers raised matters in this debate but time is short and I cannot reply to all of them.I have replied to the more important points raised by  Senator Bishop.  The Government cannot support the proposed amendment. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be added  (Senator  Bishop's amendment) be added. 
I do not have any information on this matter. I will have to seek.it from the Minister for Primary Industry. 
The Minister for the Army has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Yes. 
and (3) No. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
The latest figures available from the Commonwealth Statistician on the production of tallow relate to the year 1967-68. Production in that year amounted to 502 million pounds of - which 148 million pounds was edible tallow and 354 million pounds inedible. These figures are slightly below the level in 1966-67. It is estimated that production in . 1968-69 and 1969-70 would have been above the 1967-68 levels due to the rise in the slaughterings of livestock in' those two years over 1967-68. 
The bulk of edible table margarine produced in Australia is for use on the domestic market and consequently the quality and production of the product is a matter for each State Government. 
At its meeting in February this year the Australian Agricultural Council discussed the production and marketing of edible . tallow and adopted a resolution from the Standing Committee on Agriculture that the new National Health and Medical Research Council Standards for dripping and edible tallow be adopted by allStates at the earliest opportunity. These new Standards are designed to ensure that the product is derived only from wholesome materials from healthy animals. The implementation of the Agricultural Council's decision rests with the States. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Managements of several meatworks have expressed concern about United States inspection standards, but there is no evidence that any have refused to co-operate with American Veterinary Reviewers. 
American Veterinary Reviewers return to Washington frequently. The reasons for such visits are not made known. 
Inspection procedures and standards imposed by American Veterinary Reviewers have certainly intensified in recent months, but it is not possible to determine whether the standards at present imposed will disrupt exports of meat to America. 
1 have just read the rules relating to the use of VIP aircraft. Those are the rules and I have no further comment to add. 
The leader of the Opposition knows as well as I do that each application to use a VIP aircraft is judged on its merits. If an application accords with the rules and an aircraft is available, the application will be approved. 
In the rules laid down by the late  Senator McKellar,  the  President  and the  Speaker  were not specifically included, although I understand,  Mr President,  that you have used a VIP aircraft on occasions, lt is always within the prerogative of the Minister for Air to grant you or the  Speaker  use of a VIP aircraft. In regard to the committee proposition, I referred to the Public Works Committee only by way of illustration. In the past I have given other committees the use of a VIP aircraft, and I will continue to do so while I am in the job. With reference to the local member, under the old rules the local member was allowed only to fly into his electorate and around it. Now he is allowed to fly into and out of his electorate. 
The only senators included under the rules laid down are the Senate Ministers. 
No. 
Those are the rules laid down, and I cannot go any further than that. 
I recall the situation to  which the Leader  of the Opposition has referred. I will look at the matter and bring to the chamber whatever information I can obtain. 
The rules have been looked at thoroughly. I have just laid down the new guidelines and I have nothing further to add. 
The review has been completed and I now can inform honourable senators in relation lo the rules. It will be recalled that during the last session questions were asked concerning the conditions governing the use of Royal Australian Air Force VIP aircraft. At the time I indicated th..t the general rules were under review and that when that review was completed I would inform the Senate of the position. 
On 2 1st May 1969 the late  Senator McKellar  outlined to the Senate the general procedures regarding the use of RAAF VIP aircraft. Following on the review that I have mentioned, the general rules relating to the use of RAAF VIP aircraft for VIP and VIP party travel purposes are now advised as follows: 
Members of the British Royal Family, the Governor-General and the Prime Minister are their own approving authority and are responsible for approving persons travelling as members of their party. For other persons, only 3 approving authorities can approve VIP and VIP party travel in RAAF VIP aircraft. These are the Governor-General, the Prime Minister and the Minister for Air. Providing a flight is authorised by the Governor-General, the Prime Minister or the Minister for Air, the following may have the use of a VIP aircraft: 
Other Federal Ministers; 
The Leader of the Opposition in the Commonwealth Parliament and the Deputy Leader of the Opposition; 
Persons of similar status and importance who may be visiting Australia from countries overseas; 
Serving officers of the rank of Air ViceMarshal and above and equivalent ranks in Australian and other forces, and other persons of like status and importance. 
In the case of the VIPs referred to immediately above, the Minister for Air will normally be the approving authority and will be responsible for approving persons travelling as members of the VIP's party. In considering whether approval should be given, the Minister for Air will take into account: 
the availability of VIP aircraft; 
the availability of other forms of transport at or near the time of travel; 
the importance and necessity of the flight requested; and 
the status and importance of the VIP making the request. 
Where the Minister for Air entertains doubts as to an application he is to consult with the Prime Minister for decision on whether an aircraft should be provided. 
Subject to the above, in general, VIP aircraft may also be provided: 
for use by parliamentary delegations or for parliamentary committee purposes, where it can be shown to be more efficient and effective to use a ViP aircraft, e.g. the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Public Works travelling on official committee business; and 
for use under emergency or special circumstances, where the approving authority considers that such use of a VIP aircraft is justified. 
In each instance the travel in VIP aircraft by members of a VIP party is subject to the approval of the approving authority concerned. 
When an aircraft is approved for VIP travel, the other passengers carried as members of the VIP party will normally be limited to the VIP's wife, his personal staff and departmental officials connected with the official party, or in the case of a visiting foreign dignitary, senior members of his country's diplomatic mission in Australia. Approval to travel as a member of a VIP party could relate to travel on the VIP portion of the flight, i.e., whilst the VIP is on board, or whilst the aircraft is positioning itself to pick up the VIP concerned or is returning after completion of the particular VIP flight. 
Persons accompanying a VIP on a VIP aircraft may also include: 
where a Minister or Leader of the Opposition is using a VIP aircraft to visit a particular area, it Is in order for him to be accompanied by the local Federal member for that area; 
on special occasions or on visits to remote areas, approval may be given for a VIP to be accompanied by representatives of news media. 
In the event of the composition of the VIP party being changed, a further application to the approving authority concerned is to be made prior to travel. The existing arrangements also provide for RAAF VIP aircraft to be supplemented by use of Department of Civil Aviation aircraft as necessary in order to meet a VIP aircraft travel commitment approved under the above rules. 
In informing the Senate of the above arrangements I wish to state that from time to time there will be exceptions to the general procedures and arrangements applicable to VIP aicraft travel. In other words, the rules arc not inflexible and whilst they are administered and operate within the general arrangements that have been outlined, it will be necessary from time to time for the approving authority to exercise his discretion in approving VIP travel, taking into account the circumstances associated with the request for travel. 
The honourable senator indicated his interest in this matter earlier in the week and so I have obtained the following information for him: On 4th. May 1970 the Prime Minister advised the Premier of Queensland that the Commonwealth was prepared to accept as an approved drought relief measure half the cost of rates payable in 1970 by graziers who have experienced drought for more than 2 years in the 2 droughts of 1965-67 and 1969-70 and who are demonstrably in need of such assistance. The formula for eligibility for rate grants in Queensland is as follows: Primary producers whose properties are located in shires which (a) were or are to be declared drought stricken in 1970; (b) have been declared drought stricken for 12 months over the period from 1st January 1969 to 30th June 1970; and (c) have been declared drought stricken for at least 2 out of the past 5 years. 
As individual properties are not declared drought stricken - drought declarations are made on a shire basis - the Queensland Government has listed 36 shires which meet the aforementioned formula. Since this formula did not cover the case of the individual property owner outside these shires who otherwise met the general criteria and was demonstrably in need of assistance, an alternative test of eligibility was agreed upon in which individual property owners must meet the following conditions: Firstly, that the property is in a shire which was declared drought stricken for 2 years in the last 5 years and was drought stricken in 1970; secondly, that a property owner's personal equity in the holding, including stock, had been reduced by drought to less than 25 per cent of its market value; or, thirdly, that the income earning capacity of the holding had been reduced by more than 50 per cent due to drought. Public companies are not eligible for this grant. The State Government is responsible for the administration of all drought relief measures. 
I am not going to answer questions like that. I must see  the application  first and take full account of all circumstances. 
I am telling the honourable senator what I would do. I want to see each and every application first, see who is travelling on the aircraft, see whether there is a civilian aircraft flight available at the particular time and so on. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
It is a fact that one of the American Veterinary Reviewers raised objections to nude pictures on walls within an approved meat export establishment in Victoria. However, there is no evidence that such incidents are included as reasons for removal of meatworks from the United States list of approved establishments. 
Yes. If and when considered necessary. 
The Minister for the Navy has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's questions: 
No. See answer to question (3). 
South Australia does fully accept the RAN experience of certain members of the Engineering Branch and affords recognition by means of Certificates which may be issued in respect of the ranks indicated hereunder: 

<graphic href="045232197009300_12_0.jpg"></graphic>

This acceptance of RAN experience would of course allow the issue of certificates with less delay than would be encountered in other States which require the applicants in most of the lower ranksto pass an examination before a certificate is issued. The Navy isaware of the many variations between State authorities, and a comparison of procedures has already been drawn. 
The Minister will approach his colleague the Minister for Labour and National Service with a view to seeking Commonwealth uniformity, and the adoption of the South Australian standards if these are agreed to be the most desirable. 
I saw the report, as I said a few minutes ago. I am not aware of how the American figure is made up, but I shall find out. I shall do it through my own Department and let the honourable senator know. 
I have seen the report. I am being kept fully informed by officers of the Department of Air of the results of the testing of the Fill aircraft. 
Docs the honourable senator want me to answer the question? As I have informed the Senate previously, technical and scientific officers of the Department of Defence and the Department of Air, are monitoring both in the United States of America and in Australia the testing programme of this aircraft. I would like to remind .the Senate and the honourable senator who asked the question that when the Fraser mission visited the United States in April the United States Secretary of Defence agreed to meet the specified operational and technical requirements which we believe are necessary if this aircraft is to perform a strike role in the Royal Australian Air Force. The structural integrity programme of the aircraft has not been completed so far to the satisfaction of these assurances, despite what the honourable senator said. In addition, it was agreed that the 24 F111C aircraft which Australia was getting would not be accepted until they had. been processed through a modification programme which it was planned would commence in luly 1972. Honourable senators will recall that on previous occasions I have referred to the wing carry through box. It is to be replaced in this modification programme. These aircraft are therefore unacceptable to the RAAF at present. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Under regulations in force under the Customs Act 1901 -1968 an export permit is required to export stockfeeds and animal and poultry meals or mashes containing one or more of a number of products including bran, pollard and wheat meal. 
Section 20 of the Wheat Industry Stabilization Act 1968-1970 prohibits the export of wheat or wheat products without the consent in writing of the Australian Wheat Board. It specifies that the prohibition is in addition to, and not in substitution for, any prohibition contained in regulations under the Customs Act 1901-1968. 
Although it would be possible to tranship wheat from External Territories under Australian control to other destinations, freight costs and handling difficulties are such as to make it improbable, it is the opinion of the WheatBoard that any quantity which might be so transhipped would be insignificant. 
The 
Minister for Primary Industry has furnished the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
No. 1 have rejected a request from the Commercial Apiarists' Association of South Australia that a poll be held to determine whether the Board should be abolished. 1 have examined submissions by the Association alleging incompetency by the Board since it was established, at the industry's request, in 1963, and consider that there is no substance whatever in the allegations. 
I have also been informed that the Association which made the request for a poll, represents a very small minority of Australian apiarists and has received no support for its representations from any of the major apiarists' associations in any State. I do not consider that a poll is warranted in the circumstances. 
Pursuant to section 18 of the Wheat Research Act 1957, 1 present the twelfth annual report on activities under the Act for the year ended 3 1 st December 1 969. 
Senate adjourned at 12.4 p.m. until Tuesday, 13 October at 3 p.m. 
 I refused a moment ago to answer a question on this subject and 1 do the same now. 
That question has nothing to do with my portfolio. 
I am aware that some wheat is being used in the alumina industry.  I  do not have at hand details of the quantity or the price at which it was sold to the industry. I will seek those details and give them to the honourable senator as soon as I can. 
J think it is fair to say that grave concern has been expressed by many sections of the cattle industry about the closure of abattoirs. I know that feeling has run fairly high in many places, particularly among cattle men. 1 have heard people say that the Americans are directing a vindictive, campaign against Australian abattoirs. I remind the Senate that some countries have been banned completely from the meat market of the United States of America because their abattoirs did not meet the required standards and because their inspection services were not of a sufficiently high standard. 
No. 
I am sure. The United States was enforcing a policy of federal registration of American abattoirs trading across the State border and, as a result of domestic pressures, was being forced to ensure that imported meat came only from the abattoirs which were of a standard at least equal to the federal requirements. The Department of Primary Industry has been faced with the never ending job of trying to meet the problems in regard to meat inspection and meat export. It has been trying to face up to them and has been doing what is humanly possible to ensure the abattoirs could continue to operate as the American market is of enormous importance to Australia, both through the market itself and its earning capacity. The honourable senator asks: What is being done to let the abattoirs know what is going on? A handbook is made available to each of the abattoirs. It contains all the information from the Department of Primary Industry as to the required standards' to be met. 
The honourable senator says it changes every day. If he can bring this information to me, as the representative of the Minister, or to the Minister himself so that we can see where these changes are occurring perhaps we can do something about them. 
I answered a question on this subject recently. I informed the honourable senator or one of his colleagues on that occasion that the Minister for Primary Industry was carefully examining this matter in an endeavour to implement a scheme. As far as I am aware no submission has been placed before the Government so far. 
 The Minister for the Army has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
A suitable site has been selected and the Department of the Interior has arranged for a valuation of the properly sothat negotiations for acquisition may proceed. Acquisition is proposed this financial year. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer: 
Wholesale prices for imported and domestic cheese vary according to pack, the age of the cheese and the marketing policy of the manufacturer or distributor who are free to charge what they consider the market will stand. The detailed wholesale price information requested is not collected by the Commonwealth Statistician. However, the following is the range of list prices obtained from two major wholesalers in Sydney on 24th September 1970. 

<graphic href="046232197010134_15_0.jpg"></graphic>

Retail prices can vary from store to store and from day to day. for a number of reasons such as competition and availability in each local market. The detailed retail price information requested also is not collected by the Commonwealth Statistician. However, following is the range of prices obtained from two leading retail Stores in Sydney on 24th September 1970. 

<graphic href="046232197010134_15_1.jpg"></graphic>

The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
Each Phantom F4E aircraft travelled approximately 9.550 nautical miles. 
The Phantoms were refuelled on the ground at USAF bases and in the air from USAF KC-135 tanker aircraft. 
1,300 nautical miles. 
The Minister for the Navy has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
There is one naval establishment in Tasmania, namely HMAS Huon situated in Hobart, which performs the following tasks: 
Naval Recruiting in Tasmania. 
Training of RANR personnel. 
The operation and maintenance of an oil fuel installation. 
The complement provides for 3 officers and 17 sailors of the permanent naval force, and in addi tion 10 civil personnel for clerical and cleaning duties. At 31st August 1970 there were 3 officers and 20 sailors borne in the establishment. 
The RANR complement provides for 44 officers and 107 sailors. There were 21 officers and 81 sailors borne as at 31st August 1970. These personnel arc obliged to carry out weekly evening periods of training in addition to a fortnight's full time training per year. 
There are in addition 12 officers of the RANVR, who are not under any training obligation. 
I am not aware of the full details. I shall have to check up on this matter. I will do so and let the honourable senator have the information he requires. 
I am aware of the fatal crash that occurred in America.I do not think there is any purpose in conjuring up possible causes of the crash. The information I have is that an FB111, operating out of Carswell air force base, crashedlast week killing 2 members of its crew. A board of inquiry has been appointed to investigate the accident and when the inquiry is completed we will be informed of its findings. As I said in the Senate only a few weeks ago, the Royal Australian Air Force is not prepared to accept our 24 F111C aircraft until they meet the operational and technical requirements of the RAAF. 
I understand that, there are no restrictions on the import of meat substitutes into Australia, other than those applying to food products generally. 1 understand also that such products are subject to quarantine inspection at the point of entry to ensure that they are wholesome and fit for human consumption. I think I made this point in answer to a question from  Senator Devitt  yesterday. 
Something that looks like a piece of meat. Depending on the country of origin, products of this nature would be subject to a general rate of duty of 30 per cent ad valorem plus a primage of 10 per cent, I understand. There is also a preferential rate of 12 per cent plus a primage of 5 per cent. 

 - Senator Devitt asked me yesterday by way of interjection whether meat was allowed into Australia from those countries from which meat had been banned from entry into the United States, and I replied no. I still hold with that answer because I was referring to whole meat, not canned meat. 
You did not question me about it. 
Canned meats entering this country have to meet certain stringent hygiene regulations. Honourable senators will find that those tins have met those requirements an coming into this country. On the matter of whether we would ban an equal quantity of meat, I say no, I do not think we would. If we are to get meat into the United States then we have to comply with the Wholesome Foods Act in the United States. We are trying to do this by carrying out periodical inspections of Australian meat works. 
The honourable senator who asks this question knows full well that I would not have details of such a matter. He has asked the question for. no other than a political purpose. I suggest that he put his question on notice. 
I answered a similar question yesterday and I can only reiterate what I said then. A booklet is made available lo each of the abattoirs and any amendment lo the standards is promulgated by way of a circular. I point out to the Senate again that all Australian meat works exporting to the United States of America are subject to periodic inspections by United States veterinarians to see that they comply with the United States Meat Inspection Act and meat inspection regulations. United States legislation requires foreign establishments to observe the same standards as those applicable to American meat works. As to whether there will be changes in the future, if there are amendments to the American Act then I take it that such requirements will be applied to Australian meat works. 
Currently the Royal Australian Air Force is investigating the Boeing 707-320 aircraft for the dual role of transport and tanker. It has been implied in the Press that we are looking at the KC135 as a tanker and the C141 as a transport; but they are no longer being manufactured, so that proposition is out. I checked up with my Department only yesterday to see how far this matter has gone. A submission on it has now gone to the Department of Defence. In regard to the honourable senator's other question, the 24 Phantoms are under a lease arrangement with the United States at present, as he knows. I think that until we have a firm decision on the FU 1C we will continue with the lease arrangement. I believe that the Air Force can get a satisfactory performance out of the Phantoms, particularly when we have regard to the fact that we can use the operational base at Learmonth and those that we hold further to the north of us. 
I  can well understand the honourable senator's interest in Tasmania and in Tasmanian farmers; but  I  cannot quite understand his bias towards Tasmania in regard to trade with New Zealand and the other Slates. However, 1 certainly will look into this matter for him and take it up with the Minister for Primary Industry. 
I  have always believed that if any statutory wool marketing authority is to be successful in this country there must be co-operation by all other authorities, such as those in New Zealand and South Africa, in the provision and exchange of market intelligence. 1 believe  I  made that statement in my maiden speech in the Senate. However,  I  do not believe that this should imply that there will be agreement on a reserve price, reselling and so forth.  I  believe that they are matters of government policy rather than for an independent authority that has been set up. 
I said yesterday, and I said again today in answer to a question by  Senator Lillico,  that I have been informed by the Department of Primary Industry that a handbook is made available to each abattoir throughout the Commonwealth and that any amendments promulgated are circulated to those abattoirs. With regard to the remainder of the question, I have not the details to enable me to supply an answer, but I shall seek the information and make it available to the honourable senator. 
I gave the figures, which were then up to date, to the honourable senator in the last sessional period. I shall have them brought up to date and given to him. 
Pursuant to section 82 of the Repatriation Act 1920-1970, 1 present the reports of War 
Pensions Entitlement Appeal Tribunals Nos. 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 for the year ended 30th June 1970. 
The 
Leader of the Opposition asked me last week whether I would table in the Senate  details of the VIP flight. I said then that I would look at the matter and endeavour to do so, if  I  could.  I  have looked at the matter. I have the manifest records and I am in the process of rechecking every individual who has travelled on the various flights. As soon as I have completed that task I shall table the flight information in the Senate. 
Any effects of the diplomatic recognition of China by Canada on our sales of wheat to mainland China at this stage can be only pure conjecture. There is no evidence to suggest that China will cut down its wheat imports from Australia or turn away from Australia as a source of supply. In fact, from my experience, the Chinese always have been recognised as being pretty hard headed business men. 1 believe they will go where they get the best bargain. Canada has been selling wheal to mainland China in pretty large quantities only since 1961 and Australia has had wheat markets in China since before that time. I believe that the Australian Wheat Board is very conscious of the situation. As always, representatives of the Board will be in close contact with the Chinese in an endeavour to sell them even more wheat than they have bought in the past. 
For some time now the Federal Council of the Apiarists' Association of Australia has been examining a scheme formulated for a minimum price within the industry. Recently a conference was held of all State apiarists' associations. Following that conference the Western Australian and Tasmanian bodies held a conference and decided against participating in the scheme. The other 4 States strongly supported the scheme. I understand that some people within the industry feel that because of the present strong price for export honey, the time is not ripe for such a scheme to be implemented within the industry. 
However, recently the Commercial Association of Apiarists of South Australia requested that a poll be held to determine whether the Australian Honey Board should be abolished. This was taken up with the Minister for Primary Industry, who examined submissions alleging incompetence by the Board. These allegations were made by the South Australian organisation. The Minister considered that there was no substance whatever in the allegations. I am informed that the association which made the request represents a small minority of growers in the industry and that it does not receive any support in its submissions from the remainder of the industry. For this reason the Minister has said no to its request. 
It is the prerogative of the commander of the base. If he thought that it was in the interests of the inquiry which was to be conducted that reporters and photographers should be excluded from the base he had every right to exclude them. 
The position is as the honourable senator stated in the early part of his question, that is, that under the present lease arrangements Australia i.s leasing 24 aircraft from the United States Government. All 24 aircraft are stationed at Amberley. Immediately following this accident an inquiry was instituted to ascertain its causes. The remaining P4E aircraft have been taken off flying until we know the cause of the accident. 
I am aware of the decline in wool prices. [ think this is of concern to everyone in Australia, particularly the wool producers and the people who live in rural areas. I believe that the situation at present places more emphasis on the need for the establishment of an Australian Wool Commission. J' have already pointed out to the Senate that because of the difficulty of preparing legislation for the establishment of such a Commission in time for its presentation to the Parliament this session the Minister for Primary Industry is examining the possibility of having an interim arrangement whereby the reserve price mechanism can be introduced as early as possible. The Minister for Primary Industry is examining this matter at present. I hope that something will result from his examination. 
1 would not agree with the remarks made by the honourable senator although I know that the suggestion he has made has been put forward on occasions, not. only in recent times but also over a very long period. I well recall my own days in the wool industry when such a suggestion was put forward on a number of occasions by several growers. Over recent months competition in the sale room probably has not been as intense as it might have been. Perhaps some buyers have waited for other buyers to purchase their quota and then have come in to make their own purchases. This is all the more reason why the Australian Wool Commission should be set up so that these and similar problems in the marketing situation can be ironed out. 
I was not relying on any information other than the price that has been given to the Australian Government by the United States Government. The final cost has to be worked out but the cost for the basic aircraft will not exceed $5.95m. There are other costs for the spares that have been ordered and have not been paid for and some of the modifications sought by the Royal Australian Air Force which are not provided for in the basic aircraft supplied to the American Air Force. 
I understand that the industry has made tentative approaches to the Minister for Primary Industry or his Department in regard to a stabilisation scheme. I understand that the matter is being considered by the industry and the Department. 1 cannot give the honourable senator any further information. T shall seek it and let him have it later. 
On 30th September last  Senator Murphy  asked me whether I would table details of VIP flights from 6th March 1969 until the present time. 
Yes. I now lay on the table the details and ask for leave to make a statement. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - There being no objection, leave is granted. 
Following my answer in the Senate on 30th September 1970, when I advised honourable senators of the general rules relating to the use of Royal Australian Air Force VIP aircraft for VIP and VIP party travel purposes, I was asked to provide details relating to the use of VIP aircraft over the period since the date when this information was last provided. This I now do in the form of a separate document which I now table. This document, which contains information similar to that previously provided, sets out VIP flight details by the RAAF for the period from 6th March 1969 to 30th September 1970. Also included are those VIP flights which were authorised by me where Department of Civil Aviation aircraft were used to meet the particular commitment. The document which I now table embraces all details of approved applications for VIP travel and has been reconciled against the relevant flight manifests. 
It is true that in an incident at the Amberley air base yesterday damage was clone to a F-4E aircraft. Preliminary investigations reveal that there may have been a malfunction in one of the aircraft's systems which led the pilot to decide to land using the arrestor braking system. I point out to the Senate that a cross wind of some 20 knots was blowing at the time. The question of whether the system worked satisfactorily is subject to investigation at the present time. A court of inquiry is sitting to examine this and other possible causes of the incident. I expect a report to be handed to me in the near future - perhaps tomorrow or the next day. Under the leasing agreement we pay for all damage which happens to a plane during an accident. At this stage what the cost will be I cannot say because I understand that the damage to this aircraft is repairable. 
 I am not aware of the Press report. I will make inquiries and let the honourable senator know. 
I think the honourable senator is aware that a changeover is taking place at Butterworth. I was there 6 or 8 weeks ago and was able to inspect the area. I am not sure what the defence system is at the moment, but I will make it my business to find out and let the honourable senator know. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend the Processed Milk Products Bounty Act 1962-1970 to provide for the payment of an export bounty of $3,379,000 on skim milk powder, buttermilk powder and casein produced and exported in 1970-71. The decision to pay the bounty on non-fat milk products formed part of the arrangements agreed to by the Government for the Australian dairy industry for 1970-71 in response to undertakings by the industry to voluntarily' restrain butter and cheese production during the year to 220,000 tons and 70,000 tons respectively. The returns from the sale of non-fat milk products represent an important part of producers' returns and the bounty provisions will help to maintain the allowances made to pro ducers by butter factories for solids-not-fat in milk at the 1969-70 level which reflected the receipt of devaluation compensation payments. However, the bounty provisions will rule out any devaluation compensation being paid on the products in question ex 1970-71 production. 
The Bill provides for an appropriation of $1,804,000 for the payment of bounty on skim milk powder and buttermilk powder and $1,575,000 on casein. As with the existing bounty on exports of processed milk products containing butterfat, the bounty will be paid to the producer of the product. There will be provision for interim rates of bounty to be fixed by the Minister for Primary Industry after consultation with the Australian Dairy Industry Council. The final rates of bounty will be automatically determined by the quantity of product exported. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Wilkinson)  adjourned. 
It would appear on the surface that  Senator O'Byrne  has chosen an unusual time to bring forward his motion. If I correctly remember the history of this matter his notice of motion has been on the notice paper for some time and debate on it has been adjourned from time to time. It would appear as though it has come forward for debate today because the proceedings of the Senate are being broadcast. 
At the beginning of his speech  Senator O'Byrne  referred to a proposal which was put forward by the Australian Democratic Labor Party early in May for a royal commission. He neglected to say that this proposal was fairly well debated in the Senate by a number of speakers on both sides of the chamber. / think  the Democratic  Labor 
Party itself provided two or three speakers on that occasion.  Senator O'Byrne  said nothing of the urgency motion moved by the Australian Labor Party on the first day of this sessional period when honourable senators came into this House and moved it even before they had heard what was contained in the Budget for rural industry. Today  Senator O'Byrne  says that this Government has done nothing for the primary industries. He quotes statements out of newspapers and a speech out of Hansard by an honourable member in another place. Then he wanders off on to the subject of wheat sales to China and the dairying industry, saying nothing constructive whatsoever. Everyone in the rural industries and the rural areas generally knows that conditions are very hard. But  Senator O'Byrne  and those who sit behind him add nothing to those people's problems by saying that they are going through a hard period. We in the Government are trying to do something to alleviate their problems. 
 1 ask honourable senators to listen to this. In the Budget the Government brought down certain provisions for direct payments totalling approximately $2 15m. This amount is 55 per cent higher than the payments provided for rural industries in the previous Budget. I believe one could find a lot more than the amount of $2 15m if one took into consideration funds which have been provided for agricultural research, drought relief extension services, rural roads and many other matters. If all those matters are taken into account the total provision to assist rural industries amounts to about $450m. Tn respect of the wool industry alone the Government has provided direct financial assistance amounting to almost $62m which comprises an emergency grant of $30m to help growers suffering from the effects of low prices and drought, $29m for wool promotion and research and $2.9m towards the cost associated with the price averaging plan which was operating at the time the Budget was introduced. 
In addition, as announced by the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  in his Budget speech the question of debt reconstruction for those producers whose businesses are basically sound will be looked at. The need for reconstruction in the industry is being examined by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  who will shortly submit a report to the Government on this matter. The Budget made further provisions for primary industries, including $30m for the wheat industry under the stabilisation plan, $45m for the dairying industry, $56.6m for fertiliser subsidies and bounties, $21m for devaluation compensation and $25m for petroleum price equalisation. Yet  Senator O'Byrne  says that this Government has done nothing to assist rural industries! That shows how little notice he has taken of the Budget or how little he worries about the assistance given to primary industries. 
The Government's decision to bear the cost of installing and maintaining rural telephone lines within 15 radial miles of an exchange and to exempt agricultural distillate from increased excise are further concessions provided in the Budget for primary producers. The 1970 Budget is clear evidence of the great concern the Australian Government has for the difficulties facing the rural sector. On top of what I have said the Government has made an announcement that it is going to introduce a reserve price scheme. This will be a further cost to the Government and will be of great benefit to the wool industry as a whole. These are the things that we have actually done in the past few months to assist the rural industries.  Senator O'Byrne  says we have done nothing. I ask for leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - Is leave granted? 
Government supporters - Aye. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- There being no objection, leave is granted. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT - There were no noes. Leave is granted. 
 I object to the interjection that was made by  Senator Devitt.  He called me a contemptible pig. 
I apologise. I withdraw my remark. I misheard the honourable senator. I am sorry. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Are you speaking by leave? 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- There is no motion. I asked was there any objection to leave being granted, and there was no objection. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Yes. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT -I ruled that there were no objections and leave was granted. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Order!  Senator Murphy,  you are out of order in speaking without leave. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- There must be a motion to follow this. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT - Order! 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT  - Order!  Senator Murphy,  you will resume your seat. 
Motion (by  Senator Wright)  proposed: 
That the debate be adjourned. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT  -  Senator Murphy,  you will resume yourseat. You are out of order. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- The question is: That the motion be agreed to. 
The Minister for the Navy has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
$5,175. 
I am glad to inform the honourable senator that sorcery plays a limited role in Australian political events. 
I did gee the report put out the other day by the  President  of the Federal Wine and Brandy Producers Council and T noted that he made some comments about what the tax on wine this year could do for the industry. I noted also that he pointed out that at present the industry has no figures to show how it will be affected. I shall take up with the Minister for Primary Industry the point made by the honourable senator and see what information I can obtain for bini. 
The Government cannot support the proposed amendment for the reasons that I gave in my opening remarks in the debate on the amendment proposed by the Australian Democratic Labor Party. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to he inserted  (Senator Murphy's amendment)  be inserted. 
On 20th October  Senator Drury  asked me a question in relation to a new stabilisation scheme for the dried fruits industry.I gave him some information and said that I would check to see what the position was. I have been informed that following the referendum of the industry in March, when the growers voted against the renewal of the stabilisationscheme, the export market has become very competitive, and this is causing the industry a Jot of concern. It is for this reason that the Australian Dried Fruits Control Board has warned against the expansion of production. I understand that at the presenttimethe industry bag submitted proposals to the Government in the hope that a satisfactory future arrangement may be developed between the Government and the Industry. That is all the information I have. 
I cannot look into the future and say what is going to happen. At this moment there is no intention to commit the Phantom aircraft to Vietnam. I cannot say more than that. 
I am not aware of the situation to which the honourable senator has referred, but I will take up the question with the Minister for Primary Industry and obtain an answer for the honourable senator. 
The honourable senator knows as well as I do that one cannot state categorically what will be the range of a Phantom unless one knows the load, the conditions under which the aircraft is flying, the height at which the aircraft is flying, and so on. 
The honourable senator can say what he likes, but I would not attempt to answer the question unless he gave rae a lot of figures. In the lease agreement there is an arrangement whereby tanker training will be available for the Royal Australian Air Force, but tankers are not included in the lease. 
The Treasurer in his Budget Speech referred to the fact that the Minister for Primary Industry would be carrying out an investigation into debt reconstruction. This inquiry has been proceeding for some time through the Bureau of Agricultural Economics and is rather well advanced. It is hoped that very shortly the Minister for Primary Industry will be receiving a report from the Bureau on the basis of which he may be able to make a statement as to further policy. 
Under the lease agreement with the Americans with regard to the Phantoms provision was made for the use of tankers to ferry the aircraft to Australia and for training purposes during the 2-year period while the Phantoms were in Australia. In that agreement there was no provision to buy or lease tankers from the United States. The tanker at present being used by the United States is the KC135, which is going out of production. I have informed the Senate on a number of occasions that the Department of Defence and my own Department are considering trying to get a 707-320 as a tanker-cum-transport aircraft. I believe that the estimated cost of an aircraft of this sort could be in the vicinity of$10m. 
The Minister for Repatriation has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
None of the personnel involved in the accident was or had been on special service within the meaning of the Repatriation (Special Overseas Service) Act. Accordingly, neither the soldiers injured nor the dependants of those killed in the accident referred to in the honourable senator's question have any entitlement to repatriation benefits. 
The Minister for Repatriation has provided the following answers to the honourable senator's question: 
Ninty-one. 
and (3) One hundred and sixty-two including one double orphan. (4)I presume that theother forms of compensation referred to by the honourable senator are payments under the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act and the Commonwealth Employees' Compensation Act.I am not aware of the numbers of widows and children receiving payments under that legislation. 
The Minister for Repatriation has provided the following answer  to  the honourable senator's question: 
Particulars of the number of pensions payable specifically in respect of wounds are not available. However, the number of soldiers receiving pensions for disabilities accepted as due to Vietnam service are: 
Special (T &amp; P.I.) rate- 22. 
Intermediate rate - 2. 
General rate - 
at 100 per cent- 241 
at 10 per cent to 95 per cent- 2,489. 
By his use of the termother forms of compensation,I presume the honourable senator is referring to payments under the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act and the Commonwealth Employees' Compensation Act. I am not aware of the number of Vietnam servicemen receiving payments under that legislation. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a  second  time. 

 Mr Deputy President, this is a short Bill, the principal effect of which will be to permit the States to enact legislation requiring the licensing of premises used for processing fish for either domestic consumption or export. It also omits Nauru from the scope of the Fisheries Act following the granting of independence to that country. The Government believes that the effects of this Bill have significant importance for the Australian fishing industry. In particular, it will provide a path not at present available for the Commonwealth and States to cooperate in the rationalisation of the secondary sector of the industry in so far as it will clear the way for any State to enact legislation requiring the licensing of premises used for the processing of fish. This process of licensing would not be possible without the enactment of this Bill for reasons to which I shall refer later in this speech. 
The need for rationalisation of fish processing facilities is particularly indicated in the more lucrative fisheries, such as prawns, rock lobsters, scallops, etc., where the creation of a total processing capacity in a particular area in excess of the ability of the fishery resources to supply would lead to overcapitalisation. Indeed, 2 prawn processing companies in northern Australia have already failed because of their inability to secure a share of the total catch sufficient to make their operation economically viable. An important consequence of rationalisation of processing capacity will be to reduce the risk of excessive pressures being placed on the resources in situations where processors are urging fishermen to increase their catches at any cost in order to keep the processing facilities in operation.  In  many of our fisheries, the sustainable yield from the resources is not yet fully known and the Government is taking all possible steps to carry out research with the objective of providing this information. In these circumstances some pragmatic management decisions have had to be made and the Commonwealth has taken action in the Northern Territory to limit the number of prawn processing opportunities and has held regular consultations with the Queensland fisheries authorities on the desirability of extending this kind of control to the Queensland sector of the fishery. 
I believe it is appropriate to emphasise to honourable senators and the fishing industry that the Commonwealth is not by this Bill proposing itself to enter the field of licensing fish processing plants for reasons of fishery management. Whether or not processing plants are to be licensed will depend entirely on decisions by the several State governments to enact suitable legislation for this purpose. I should also make it clear that the operations of the Exports (Fish) Regulations which provide for standards of hygiene, sanitation and product quality in respect of plants processing fish for export and for registration of plants meeting those standards, will not be affected in any way either by this Bill or by any State legislation that may subsequently be enacted. 
The Bill has a secondary purpose connected with the Government's decision to establish under the Fishing Industry Research Act 1969 a matching fund for research education, extension and development for the benefit of the fishing industry. At the time that negotiations were proceeding with the States on the establishment of this fund it was agreed that each State would collect the contribution from the fishing industry in whichever manner was considered most suitable to the structure and organisation of the fishing industry in the State concerned. Queensland authorities took the view that in that Stale the most suitable form of levying the contribution would be by way of fees collected from the licensing of fish processing plants. However, the Queensland Government felt some concern for the validity of legislation to give effect to this proposal in view of the judgment in O'sullivan v. Noarlunga Meat Pty Ltd, where the High Court held that State legislation requiring the licensing of premises used for processing meat for export was invalid. Accordingly, in 1969 fisheries and legal officers of the Commonwealth and Queensland conferred with a view to devising a legal course of action which would offset the effect of this judgment. The result of this conference is embodied in the Bill now before the Senate. It has the concurrence of the Queensland Government and of the Australian Fisheries Council. 
Accordingly, the Bill has a secondary importance for the development and conduct of research into our fisheries by making the way clear for any State, which desires to employ the device of licensing premises used for the processing of fish as a means of collecting money from the fishing industry to be matched by the Commonwealth under the Fishing Industy Research Act, to do so without fear of the legislation concerned being ruled invalid in the light of judgment in the Noarlunga case. The provisions of the Bill are brief and to the point. I believe that I have adequately outlined them in my opening sentences. This Bill is part of an overall review of Commonwealth fishery legislation which has been undertaken in the Department of Primary Industry and which will form the basis of more extensive amendments of the Fisheries Act and Continental Shelf (Living Natural Resources) Act during a subsequent session of the Parliament. I commend the present Bill to honourable senators. 
Yesterday in one of the newspapers I saw some figures relating to the stockpiling of wool, so 1 sought some information from the Department of Primary Industry, and this is all I can give the honourable senator. I do not know whether it ties in with what he wants to know. I will give him the figures regarding the stockpiling of wool for Argentina, New Zealand and Uruguay for 1969 and 1970 and compare these with the figures for Australia for the same 2 years. In Argentina there were 44 million lb of clean wool on hand in 1969 compared with 44 million lb of clean wool on hand as at 1st October 1970. In New Zealand there were 23 million lb of clean wool stockpiled in 1969 and 23 million lb of clean wool stockpiled as at 1st July 1970. In Uruguay there were 9 million lb of clean wool on hand in 1969 and 10 million lb of dean wool on hand as at 1st October 1970. In Australia there were 1.09 million bales of unsold wool in store in 1969 and 1.03 million bales of unsold wool in store as at 30th October this year. So far as the quantity of wool sold by auction in Australia is concerned, in 1969 906,010 bales were sold compared with 721,238 bales sold in 1970. However, the receipts of wool into store are down on the figures for 1969. 
 I understand from my reading of speeches made both in the Senate and in the other place that from time to time the Labor Party has advocated the purchase of the Phantom. I think they have done so with good cause. The Phantom is recognised as one of the most experienced fighter bombers in the world andI think its performance in Vietnam has proved this. 
As the honourable senator's question ranges over a wide area I shall have to refer it to the Minister for Primary Industry. 
 Senator Wilkinson  wanted an explanation of proposed sub-section (2.) of section 5 of the Act. The explanation that I give him is that it has been necessary to make provision for a new formula for dried milk products and casein as the one that we have in operation at the present time relates to the butterfat content of processed milk products. The formula for dried milk products and casein provides a rate of bounty based on the amount appropriated divided by the total quantity of products produced and exported during i 970-7 1. Putting that into layman's language and referring to the formula to which  Senator Wilkinson  referred - ab  - , where 'a' is the number of pounds of the c dried milk product or casein; 
No; 'b' is the amount appropriated and 'c' is the total amount exported in pounds. Both 'a' and 'c' are in pounds. 
No; 'a' is the amount in pounds produced by a particular factory and 'c' is the total amount in pounds produced by all factories and exported. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
I recall the questions referred to by  Senator Bishop.  I did say that the range, in one case, is 1,300 nautical mites. I did say to  Senator Bishop  that I was satisfied with the range of the Phantom for our present requirements. In reply yesterday to  Senator Keeffe  I pointed out that it was necessary to have details of load, height and operational conditions. It is not possible now to give the honourable senator the figure he seeks, but I will have a look at his question and ascertain what information I can supply to him. 
I believe that the speech on this subject was made by the Chancellor of the British Exchequer. I am not aware of the details contained in the report or in the speech. 1 point out to the honourable senator that quotas exist on the British market at the present time in regard to butter and cheese. I am not aware of whether these quotas will be increased, but I do understand that the Minister for Trade and Industry, and probably his representative in this place, will be making a statement on this matter later today. 
This matter was drawn to my attention this morning. I referred it to the Department of Primary Industry which at present is investigating the allegations. I cannot say more than that. 
Pursuant to section 29 of the Wine Overseas Marketing Act 1929-1966 I present the forty-second annual report of the Australian Wine Board for the year ended 30th June 1970. 
Pursuant to clause 8 of the Sugar Agreement  1969, I present the report on the operation of the Fruit Industry Sugar Concession Committee for the period ended 30th June 1970, together with the Committee's financial statements and the Auditor-General's report on those statements. 
Pursuant to section 84 of the Wool Industry Act 1962-1967 I present the annual report of the Australian Wool Board for the year ended 30th June 1970, together with financial statements and the Auditor-General's report on those statements. An interim report of the Board was presented to the Senate on 1st September 1970. 
Pursuant to section 36 of the Canned Fruit: 
Export Marketing Act 1963-1968, 1 present the forty-fourth annual report of the Australian Canned Fruits Board for the year ended 31st December 1969, together with financial statements and the report of the Auditor-General on those statements. 
I assure the honourable senator that I will not be retiring from the Senate. I think everyone in this place realises that because of the complex system of Senate elections under which only half of the Senate representatives retire every 3 years, a lot of people, including apparently the editor of the article in today's 'Australian', are unaware that the terms of service of half of the sitting senators expire on 30th June next. I point out that those same senators who retire are eligible for re-election. I assure the honourable senator that the people of Western Australia will have the advantage of retaining an experienced senator. Furthermore I point out that I am the only Government senator from Western Australia who is seeking re-election and I am the only Federal Minister representing Western Australia. 
The honourable senator was quick on his feet after I had sat down to try to get in some propaganda on this matter. I point out to him that a number of industry sponsored committees have been set up. "They are going on all the time. I think the best example is the recent wool inquiry. I point out that the dried fruits industry is presently having an inquiry. 
I will not answer it if the honourable senator keeps on interjecting all the time. 
I would have thought so. I shall start again. I point out to the Leader of the Opposition that the wool industry has just had a very good inquiry. The advisory committee of the Australian Wool Board conducted an inquiry together with the leaders of the industry. The Minister has appointed a first class man with long experience,  Sir John  Crawford, to assist the industry. The Australian Apple and Pear Board which is holding its federal conference in Tasmania tomorrow has conducted a thorough inquiry into the industry with representatives of the Department of Primary Industry. The dried fruits industry Ls still going through a long inquiry following the rejection of the stabilisation scheme last March. Those are 3 examples for the honourable senator. 
35-HOUR WEEK 
The Minister for the Navy has provided the following answers tothe honourable senator's questions: 
Since the 1st January 1965 collision repairs totalling $538,000 have  been  carried out on HMAS 'Melbourne'. 
The collision with the USS Frank E. Evans on 3rd June, 1969 resulted in the loss of 74 USN personnel and 32 injured. There were no fatalities among HMAS 'Melbourne's' personnel but 25 suffered minor injuries, mainly sprains and cuts resulting from the rescue operations. Additionally, accidents involving aircraft operating from HMAS Melbourne' have resulted in two deaths and one injury during the period in question. 
I have not seen the statement to which the honourable senator referred, but labour costs do play a very prominent part, particularly in the wool industry. I have some figures on wool handling costs, a study of which was done on stations in New South Wales. They are rather interesting. The total cost is given as a figure of 100 per cent. The cost of running the station, without any extra labour costs attached, is 67 per cent. Hie shearing costs work out at about 5.8 per cent. The shed costs, other than the shearing, work out at 6.3 per cent. Transport costs, road and rail, work out at 2.6 per cent. The cost of marketing the clip is 6.5 per cent. Overseas shipping costs are 11 per cent of the total cost. 
Over the years 1 think anyone connected with primary industry has pointed out the situation in which we are trying to prod'  ice  goods for the export market in an economic climate such as we have in Australia and selling them on a market 12,000 miles away which is not interested in the local cost of production. The other point raised by the honourable senator was whether I would make a statement about the matter. I shall contact the Minister for Primary Industry in the hope that 1 can obtain some information to present to the Senate. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
As at early October 1970 the values are: 
Phantom aircraft- $US6.493m  (2)F1  1 1 aircraft- $US36.022m 
To give the honourable senator the information that he is seeking, I would have to obtain information from the Minister for Primary Industry and perhaps from the Minister for Labour and National Service. 
On 23rd September 1970  Senator McClelland  asked the following question without notice: ls it a fact that when the export of mutton to the United Slates was slopped in May of this year the reason given was that the disease condemnation standards were not being mct'.' ls the Minister aware that since that time only 2 plants have been reinstated, neither of them in New South Wales, and that in order to regain an export licence for mutton the works must be reinspected for general hygiene purposes? Kas the Minister seen a report that at one of the works an American inspector ordered what were referred to as girlie pictures to be removed from the office wall because he regarded them as being too lewd, and that a chipped sugar bowl in a lunch room at one of the plants brought a complaint? Because so many towns in the west of New South Wales are practically dependent for their economic survival on being able to export mutton to the United States, will the Minister take steps to ensure that the inspections carried out in Australia by the 5 American inspectors are conducted fairly and not capriciously, and that the inspectors do not exceed their authority in regard to the overall general standard of hygiene? 
At that time I informed  Senator McClelland  that two meatworks had been reinstated recently, one in Brisbane and one in Shepparton in Victoria, and that I would direct the remainder of the question to the Minister for Primary Industry. I have now received advice from the Minister in the following manner: 
The reasons for the ban on the entry of Australian mutton into USA were associated  with inspection procedures for the disease caseous lymphadenitis and with sanitary dressing procedures. 
Three additional plants have been reinstated for the export of mutton to USA, making a total of five. Two are located in Queensland, one in New South Wales and two in Victoria. One other abattoir in Tasmania was  reinspected  by US veterinarians in Tasmania recently but no decision has yet been given.  Reinspections  take account of all features of the plant, as well as mutton inspection and dressing procedures. 
It is a fact that one of the US veterinary reviewers raised objections to nude pictures on walls within an approved export establishment in Victoria but there is no evidence that such incidents are included as reasons for the removal of meatworks from the list ' of establishments eligible to export meat to USA. 
Steps have been taken to ensure that the reviews of US inspectors are performed fairly and objectively. 
Pursuant to section 10 of the Royal Australian Air Force Veterans' Residences Act 1953- 1965 I present the annual report of the Royal Australian Air Force Veterans' Residences Trust for the year ended 30th June 1969, together with financial statements and the Auditor-General's report on those statements. 
I move: 
Thai ihe Bill be now read a second time. 
The object of this Bill is to establish a statutory body to be known as the Australian Wool Commision, empowered to operate a flexible reserve price scheme for wool sold at auction and to perform a number. of other functions relating to the whole clip aimed at improving the marketing of Australian wool. The idea of setting up a statutory wool marketing authority originated with the wool growing industry itself. As a result of a severe decline in wool prices during the last 18 months, strong advocacy arose among wool growers in Australia for a body which would strengthen the position of sellers and reduce the irrational fluctuations which occur in wool prices. The proposal for such a body was supported at mass meetings of wool growers throughout Australia. The two federal wool grower organisations - the Australian Woolgrowers and Graziers Council and the Australian Wool and Meat Producers Federation - resolves to press for such a body, as did the national body of the wool growers, the Australian Wool Industry Conference. 
At the request of the Conference, a special advisory committee of the Austraiian Wool Board prepared an outline plan suggesting the principles on which a statutory wool marketing authority could be estab lished. The special advisory committee of the Wool Board is a body representative of all sections of the wool industry including wool selling brokers, wool buyers and wool textile manufacturers. The advisory committee recommended that a statutory body be set up and operate along the lines proposed in its report and this recommendation was adopted in principle by the Wool Board, the two federal wool grower organisations and the Wool Industry Conference. The report and recommendations of the advisory committee of the Wool Board were presented to the Government by representatives of the industry in July of this year. The. Government decided that it would be desirable to have an independent assessment made of the proposal by a highly qualified person who could also fill in the details of the broad principles recommended by the. advisory committee. To this end, I arranged for  Sir John  Crawford, Vice.Chancellor of the Australian National University, to undertake the task. After considering  Sir John  Crawford's comprehensive report the Government put to the industry the terms on which it would be prepared to set up a statutory wool marketing authority. These were accepted early this month by the two federal wool grower organisations and by the Wool Industry Conference which voted overwhelmingly for the implementation of the scheme. This, then, is the background to the Bill which we are about to consider. 
The need for establishing a statutory wool marketing authority with powers relating to the whole clip was argued in some detail in  Sir John  Crawford's report which has been made public. Wool marketing must be considered in the wider sense of the . word which includes not only the method employed in the physical selling of wool but also embraces many other aspects such as the preparation and handling of wool for sale, its transport and the use of scientific and technological aids to increase efficiency in the marketing process. Even though the free auction system has been regarded as an efficient means of transferring wool from the producer to the user there is an urgent need for strengthening the position of sellers - that is wool growers - by eliminating the serious deficiencies which have developed in the auction system. These deficiencies have developed by its failure to keep pace with the changes which have taken place and will continue to occur in world commerce and business organisation. 
In particular some of the deficiencies which call for attention are: 
Under the present auction system wool growers are in a weak selling position as they have no means of effectively judging the strength of the market or of testing it. On the other hand, there has been a disturbing trend on the buying side, with a steady and alarming decline in the number of bidders at auction. There is no sign that this trend is at an end. 
There is no lack of evidence to demonstrate that auction prices are excessively unstable. Prices not only fluctuate over a season but often show considerable variation within sales and even within a single selling day. 
There is also evidence to suggest that many successful bids are below what the market is prepared to pay, due, in the main, to a decline in effective competition and in part to errors associated with the appraisal of wool. 
The periodic surpluses at some sales in both total quantities of wool and more especially in some specific types contribute to the demonstrable price instability of the auction. This is particularly so for wools affected by vegetable fault. The case for sensible regulation of the flow of wool onto the market has become increasingly obvious. 
Irrespective of what type of system is used for selling wool it is of paramount importance to ensure that the most modern and advanced techniques are applied to make that system as efficient as possible. As matters stand now, where the control of auction selling is decided upon jointly by wool growers, selling brokers and buyers there are obvious difficulties in obtaining a consensus of the interests concerned in order to obtain the ready application of new techniques. An example of the innovations needed is the development of commercially acceptable sampling and testing methods to enable the application of objective measurement of wool's characteristics prior to sale. It does not need much imagination to visualise the savings, par ticularly in handling costs, which could accrue from the sale of wool by sample. Also, as I mentioned previously, errors which occur in the appraisal of wool by subjective methods are an important factor contributing to instability in wool auction prices, lt follows, therefore, that pre-sale objective measurement of wool would be an important aid in this regard. I might mention here that the Government attaches great importance to this aspect and as announced in the last Budget it is providing about $Hm for the development of techniques for presale objective measurement and for trials to prove their commercial applicability. 
The auction system in itself cannot be held responsible for the depressed state of the wool market. This is the function of the relative strength of supply and demand. On the other hand, the introduction of a flexible reserve price scheme can help to reduce the instability of auction prices, prevent wool from being sold at sacrificial prices due to purely temporary slackening of competition and so avoid considerable losses to individual growers. Of equal importance is the confidence which a flexible reserve price system could engender in the market as a whole, particularly in the circumstances we are witnessing today. The psychological factors which operate in such circumstances lead buyers to hold off in bidding for fear that their competitors will obtain wool at a lower price later. In this way the decline in prices feeds upon itself. In situations of this nature there is a great need for a strong holder of wool who is able to exercise a restraining influence against these temporary depressive factors. In such a manner a measure of badly needed confidence can be restored to the. market. For a body to perform this role it mast have the necessary powers and standing and be backed with adequate financial resources. 
Similarly there is a pressing need lor a body to pursue a . positive programme of cutting the high costs associated with the handling, transport and marketing of wool. I have already referred to the advantages which can come from the pre-sale objective measurement of wool. Another is the establishment, where appropriate, of integrated wool selling complexes. Because of the many interests involved, a strong coordinating body is required to obtain early and tangible results in these and other fields. I shall now turn to outlining the main provisions of the Bill. 
The composition of the Australian Wool Commission is dealt with in Part II of the Bill. If is proposed that the Commission should consist of 7 members comprising a  Chairman,  2 members to represent Australian wool growers, a Commonwealth Government representative who would bs drawn from the Public Service, and 3 other members. The 3 other members would  bs  persons with special qualifications. They would be required to have experience in the fields of marketing of wool or wool products; in the processing of wool or the manufacture of wool products; or in commerce, finance or economics. All members, including the  Chairman,  would be appointed by the Minister for Primary Industry. The  Chairman  would be a full time member appointed for a period of 5 years. All other members would be part time and would be appointed for a period of 3 years. 
The  Chairman  would be appointed by the Minister after consultation with the Australian Wool Board. The 2 wool grower representatives would be appointed after consultation with the Australian Wool Industry Conference. The 3 members with special qualifications would be appointed after consultation with the Wool Board. Provision is made in the Bill for the appointment of an interim  Chairman  pending the appointment of the full time Chaiman. The main reason for this provision is to facilitate the early inauguration of the Commission as it may take some time to secure a person suitable and willing to serve as a full time  Chairman.  Provision is also made in the Bill for the appointment by the Minister of a  Deputy Chairman  from amongst the members of the Commission. 
The Government gave careful consideration to the composition of the Commission and concluded that in the interests of efficiency it was necessary to keep the membership as small as possible, consistent with the need to obtain an adequate range of skills relevant to the work of the Commission. In view of the nature of the functions pf the Commission, it is considered that the main emphasis should be placed on commercial and technical skills. I am sure that it will be agreed that every endeavour must be made to secure for the Commission men of the highest expertise and ability. The Government recognises the importance of maintaining a close liaison between the Commission and the Australian Wool Board because of the relationship between the functions of the 2 bodies. For this reason, the Bill provides that the  Chairman  of the Commission should automatically become a member of the Wool Board. 
The functions and powers of the Commission are dealt with in Part III of the Bill. The principal function of the Commission is to operate a flexible reserve price scheme in respect of wool offered for sals at auction. I should like to emphasise that the reserve price scheme operated by the Commission would be on a flexible basis and not one with reserve prices fixed for a whole season. Under the scheme, reserve prices for the various types of wool offered at auction would be determined daily, or at less frequent intervals. Reserve prices would be determined having regard to the most recent prices bid by commercial buyers at auction and after taking into account all market intelligence available to it. If the bidding on any lot did not reach the Commission's reserve price, the Commission would be prepared to purchase ths wool at that price. Wool so purchased by the Commission would be re-offered at auction or otherwise disposed of by the Commission. The grower would retain his right to place his own reserve price on his wool, except in the case of wool included in the price averaging plan or voluntarily pooled. 
The purpose of the flexible reserve price scheme would not be to defy or force the market but to test it with the objective of securing the best price obtainable at the time and of minimising the losses associated with the growing instabilities in the auction system. The operation of the scheme in this way should mean a significant reduction in sales of wool at undervalued prices, in relation to prevailing rates, and the prevention of sales of individual lots when bidding on those lots has ceased to be competitive, that is, preventing the occurrence of 'potholes' in the course of auction sales. The Government decided that no quantitative or financial limits should be placed on the amount of wool which could be purchased and held by the Commission, as such  a  limitation could adversely affect the operations of the Commission. For example, to declare and publicise a fixed limit to the level of stocks which the Commission would be permitted to hold could lead to embarrassing pressure on the Commission as stocks approached or were thought by buyers to be approaching the fixed limit. 
On the other hand the Government, because of its financial commitments under the scheme - to which I will refer later - must be assured that the Commission pursues a sound policy in its wool market operations. To this end the following provisions are included in the Bill in respect of the reserve price and re-selling policies of the Commission. A government representative is to be on the Commission; the Government is to have the right to appoint the  Chairman  and the  Deputy Chairman  of the Commission; the Commission is to report fortnightly to the Minister for Primary Industry and the Treasurer on its reserve prices, on wool purchased and held by it, as well as sales of wool made and proposed offerings; the Government is to have the right to issue directions to the Commission on its reserve price and re-selling operations when this is considered necessary. Steps would, however, be taken to provide the Commission with guidelines in respect of its reserve price and re-selling operations so so that the provision for directions need be invoked only as a last resort. 
To assist it in the operation of its reserve price scheme, the Commission is empowered to establish and operate a market intelligence unit. Since the flexible reserve price scheme will not involve long range price forecasting, this unit will be primarily concerned with the examination of short term developments which affect wool prices. The Bill provides for the Commission to take over the functions of the Australian Wool Marketing Corporation Pty Ltd. These functions include the formulation of standards of clip preparation for wool sold at auction or otherwise and the making of arrangements to secure their observance; the elimination of small lots (except specialty wools) from sale at auction to the extent desirable; the operation of a price averaging plan for wool from small lots; the payment of advances to growers whose wool is included in the price averaging plan; the operation of the Wool Statistical Service; and the operation of a scheme for the voluntary registration of wool classers. 
The Commission is to be given the following additional functions and powers under the Bill: 
To operate, when judged appropriate by the Commission, a voluntary pool for wool other than that in small lots (that is, for wool in lots exceeding 3 bales) and pay advances to owners of such wool: 
To formulate the terms and conditions governing the sale of wool at auction and make arrangements for their adoption: 
To make arrangements concerning wool auction sale rosters and offerings and to pay advances to growers the sale of whose wool has been delayed because of the arrangements made by the Commission. Provision is made in the Bill that the Commission in exercising this function will not direct wool from one selling centre to another except within such limits, or in such circumstances, as are approved by the State Government concerned: 
To have power to sell wool outside the auction system or have wool processed before sale in cases where such wool cannot be sold advantageously at auction. This provision means that the Commission will have power to dispose of any wool purchased by it, or entrusted to  it,  in any way the Commission deems fit. The Commission is empowered to purchase wool in two ways - through the operation of its flexible reserve price scheme after the wool had been offered at auction or, with the consent of the grower, before the wool is offered at auction in cases where it is considered that the wool cannot advantageously be sold at auction. In the latter case, the Commission would pay the grower a price equivalent to its most recent reserve price for the particular type of wool or such higher price as the Commission may determine: 
To encourage the progressive adoption of proven and practical technological aids to more efficient wool marketing. Examples of the aids envisaged are the pre-sale objective measurement of wool and, in co-operation with the Australian Wool Board, the establishment of integrated wool selling com.plexes 
To register firms at present operating outside the auction system which purchase wool direct from growers and sell it to local and overseas users, and obtain from these firms information on matters such as the type, yield and price of wool handled by them. The precise nature of the information to be supplied would be subject to the approval of the Minister for Primary Industry. The information provided by the individual firms will be treated by the Commission as strictly confidential. The reason for obtaining this information is to enable the Commission to keep the private buying and selling of wool under review and assess its effects on price formation in the auction system: 
To make recommendations to the Government for suitable action to be taken if and when it can be clearly demonstrated that private buying and selling is having detrimental effects on wool marketing generally: 
With the approval of the Minister for Primary Industry, to participate in negotiations concerning charges associated with the marketing of wool, including freight rates: 
To co-operate with authorities and organisations in other countries in measures aimed at more efficient marketing of wool. An important matter envisaged under this function is to consult with the New Zealand and South African Wool Commissions in the operation of their flexible reserve price schemes: 
To co-operate with the Australian Wool Board and other authorities and organisations in regard to wool promotion and research, including inquiries into methods of marketing wool: 
To discharge such other functions conducive to the object of the Bill including functions conferred by a State Act, as the Minister approves. 
I have had discussions with the State Ministers for Agriculture, through the Australian Agricultural Council, and they have expressed unanimous support in principle for the establishment of the Australian Wool Commission. I have raised with them some matters which may ultimately require supportng State legislation, such as giving compulsive power to the Commission to set the terms and conditions governing the sale of wool at auction; the control, if it should become necessary, of the private buying and selling of wool outside the auction system; and the enforcement of standards of clip preparation for wool sold outside the auction system for use within a State. The State Ministers have agreed to consider these matters and provision has been made in the Bill for possible State legislation. 
The Australian Wool Industry Conference has asked for an assurance that the Commission should not have the power to establish quotas on wool production in Australia. Such a power has never been envisaged for the Commission and, in any event, the Commonwealth Government could not, for Constitutional reasons, confer it on the Commission without the approval of the States. The Commission will, of course, require adequate and reliable financial backing to carry out its functions. The Commission would need working capital for its activities involving the purchasing of wool and advances to wool growers as well as finance to meet its operating costs. lt has been estimated that the Commission might require in the region of $115m by way of working capital for a full year - to operate flexible reserve prices, make advances to growers, etc. - and about $ 18.7m to meet its likely annual operating costs. I would like to mention that the assumptions used in making the estimates were on the liberal side and in practice the financial requirements could be smaller. Moreover, the estimates include the finance which is already required for the operations of the Wool Marketing Corporation, mainly for the elimination of small lots and the price averaging plan. Details of the estimated working capital requirements and of operating costs are set out in paragraphs 44 to 47 of  Sir John  Crawford's report which has been distributed to members of both chambers of Parliament and released to the public. However, the relevant extract from the report is available to those who require it. 
It will be noted from the report that after allowing for the financial requirements of the present Wool Marketing Corporation the net additional working capital required is about $66m and the net additional operating costs are about $6im per annum. 
The total operating costs of $18. 7m would represent S3. 12 per bale or 1.04c per lb. The net additional operating costs of S6.33m would be $1.06 per bale or 0.35c per lb. It should be mentioned that the estimate for operating costs include a component for possible losses which, of course, may not eventuate. 
The financial arrangement for the Commission are dealt with in Part IV of the Bill. The Bill makes provision for trading banks to participate in providing the finance required for the working capital of the Commission, and the Government would guarantee such loans as trading banks may make available to the Commission on acceptable terms and conditions. The Government would make available such finance as may be required by the Commission beyond any funds provided by the trading banks. In regard to the operating costs of the Commission, the Government would meet any losses resulting from the resale of wool purchased by the Commission. Such losses would include interest payable by the Commission on capital borrowed for purchasing wool as well as storage, handling and selling costs, as approved by the Minister, which could not be recovered from the resale of wool. ft is quite probable that the Commission will make profits. The first charge on such profits would be for meeting any losses which the Government has borne on behalf of the Commission. Remaining profits would be set aside as a contingency for meeting any future losses. Profits and losses of the Commission will be calculated on a financial year basis and certified by the AuditorGeneral. 
Provision is made in the Bill, however, for the Government to make advances to the Commission during a financial year for the meeting of losses and a suitable provision is made in the Bill for the appropriation of any funds which may be required for this purpose. In regard to the other operating costs of the Commission, the Government will continue to make available the funds required to meet one-half of the rehandling and brokers' administration charges for the elimination of one-, two- and three-bale lots covered by the present price averaging plan. The Government's commitment for these costs is estimated at S3. 7m in a full year. In regard to the voluntary pooling of wool, which would be an extension of the price averaging plan, growers concerned would be expected to meet all the costs involved themselves. The balance of the operating costs associated with the operations of the Commission comprises interest on money borrowed for making advances to growers, one-half of the rehandling costs and brokers* administration charges for the elimination of one-, two- and three-bale lots under the price averaging plan and the total administrative costs of the Commission. These costs would be met by wool growers through appropriate deductions, by arrangement with wool selling brokers, from the proceeds of the sale of the growers' wool. 
I would like to make it clear that wool growers would not be called upon to make any contribution for the capital requirements of the Commission. Provision is made in clause 31 of the Bill that until 30th June 1971, there may be paid to the Commission out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund such sums as the Treasurer is satisfied are necessary for the Commission in carrying out its responsibilities under the Act. Normally, a limit would have been placed on the payments to be made but in the present case this has not been possible because of the difficulty of estimating, at this stage, the amount of. money that may be required during the current financial year. Accordingly, to allow the Commission to commence operations without delay it was necessary to meet the situation by the provision made in clause 31. To protect the public interest, however, the Treasurer and the Minister for Primary Industry will closely scrutinise any proposals for payments to the Commission before approving them. 
Part V of the Bill covers miscellaneous matters associated with the operation of the Commission. These include provision for the employment of staff by the Commission; safeguarding the interests of staff now working for the Wool Marketing Corporation who would be employed by the Commission: auditing of the accounts of the Commission by the Auditor-General; annual reports to the Minister on the operations of the Commission which would be required to be tabled in Parliament; and the provision for making regulations. 
In introducing this Bill the Government is acting in accordance with the wishes of the wool growing industry. The original resolutions passed by the wool growing industry organisations calling for the establishment of a statutory wool marketing authority used the term 'single marketing authority'. This term was still used by the Advisory Committee of the Australian Wool Board in keeping with its terms of reference. The outline of the authority drawn up by the Advisory Committee and which was endorsed by the industry and put to the Government clearly did not envisage a single body with monopoly powers to buy and sell the whole Australian wool clip., which the term 'single' implies. 
What was put to the Government was a body which should be given certain powers relating to the whole clip but working within the existing marketing arrangements in which a number of private firms carry out the physical task of selling wool. The Government has very largely adopted the proposals put to it by the industry and they have been embodied in this Bill. In considering this Bill', we should keep in mind the critical position in which the wool growing industry now finds itself. Due to the catastrophic drop in wool prices over the past 18 months, the average price being received by wool growers today is the lowest for 24 years. On the other hand, wool growers' costs have increased very considerably indeed over this period. I think it can be said that the position of most woo! growers is a parlous one and in many cases, due to the advent of drought, a desperate one. - Because of the substantial contribution which wool makes to our export income - still some 20 per cent despite the extremely low wool prices - and because of the almost total dependence of large regions of Australia on wool growing, the wool industry must, by all measures available, be restored to a viable condition. The Government considers that reform of the present marketing system, although not the complete answer to the problems facing the wool industry, can do much to safeguard wool growers against losses which they often sustain under the present marketing arrangements. The marketing reforms which this Bill aims to bring about, in conjunction with other measures now being pursued as a matter of urgency by the Government - such as debt reconstruction and farm adjustment - will assist materially in the rehabilitation of this great industry. 1 commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Wilkinson)  adjourned. 
Motion (by  Senator Drake-Brockman  proposed: 
That the resumption of the debate be made an order of the day for a later hour in the day. 
We have Australian engineers and scientists in America continually watching the Fill programme and anything that is associated with it. They are continually reporting back from day to day. This morning I read a report from our scientists in America relating to the recent crash of an Fill. As to the final report, I think the Minister for Defence said in his statement towards the end of the last sessional period that it would not be until the end of 1971 that the Governments would be in a position to make a final determination as to when we would receive the aircraft. 
I would like to think so but if the honourable senator looked at the morning newspapers yesterday he would have noticed that on the previous day prices at the Brisbane sales rose  2i  per cent. The most satisfactory thing is that if we look at the futures quotations over recent days we find increases for every quality. I think this looks well for the future of wool. I hope this is so. I hope that the action of the Government in setting up the Wool Commission can do something to iron out the fluctuations that have been the pattern in the wool market over the years. 
Yes, lt is a fact that dairy factories in Victoria and Tasmania have been told that they can accept all the whole milk that they can get from farmers. 1 understand this is due to bad seasons in most parts of Australia. The Council is concerned that because of drought conditions it wilt be difficult for the industry to produce sufficient butter this season to meet the British quota. As a result the Council has eased restrictions on factories in Victoria and Tasmania. I also understand that the Council has made it clear that the policy of developing a production restraint mechanism for the future has in no way changed. The Council is urgently working on proposals to develop this mechanism. 
Fill AIRCRAFT 
Under clause 1 8 (1 .) (g) if wool comes in for sale and it is dusty or burry or carrying a good deal of condition - in other words, if it is a type of wool that is not moving in the market - the Commission could have it processed so that it is cleaned before being offered for sale. It does not need any amendment or agreement with the States to do that. 
The cost of that is borne by the Commission. 
-I took notice of what  Senator Wilkinson  said and I recognise the point he was making - that is, that there should be a majority grower representation. That is the point he was trying to make. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  and his advisers believe that there should be a compact committee of expert people, consisting of representatives from the 2 federal wool industry organisations, a  chairman  and a Commonwealth representative together with 3 men from any walk of life, provided they have the particular quality, knowledge and expertise that the Commission is looking for. 
In marketing or promotion. This Commission will be a time absorbing occupation for its members. A man who has to earn his living in the wool industry, who then has to play his part in the organisation and who finally has to take his seat on this Commission will find his lime pretty fully taken up. It is believed to be much better if we can get men who have a thorough knowledge of and expertise in the spheres of marketing, promotion, commerce or something like that. 
As  Senator O'  Byrne has said, the aim is to get our wool on the market in its best condition. That is one of the objectives of the Commission. There is nothing to slop the Commission if it is getting a tremendous amount of poor quality, dusty, burry wool-- 
You can call it what you like. There is nothing to stop the Commission from setting up these facilities. But it is not the intention at the present time. If the requirement is there at a later stage when the Commission is operating no doubt those in authority will have a look at this. But the present intention is to send wool which needs treatment to those plants that are already established and the charge will then be against the Commission. 
In my summing up before the suspension of the sitting for dinner tonight 1 drew the attention of the Senate to the fact that in the 1.951 reserve price scheme there was cooperation between South Africa. New Zealand, Australia and the United Kingdom. I went on to point out that clause 18 (I.) (I) of the Bill gives authority to cooperate with South Africa and New Zealand. Paragraph (I) reads: 
to co-operate with authorities and organisations in other countries with respect to measures aimed at the more efficient marketing of wool. 
That is clear. I think the honourable senator was called to the telephone when I gave that explanation. 
1 am advised that once the Commission has bought the wool it must get rid of the wool. This is not inconsistent with that purpose. If the Commission wants to process the wool because it thinks this would be the best way of getting rid of that wool, it can do so. 
 In answer to  Senator Cant,  I point out that the Australian Wool Commission, having brought the wool in, will then have the power to dispose of it.If the honourable senator turns to page 7 of the Bill and looks at part III, particularly clause 18(1.) (g) he will see that one of the functions and powers of the Commission is as follows:  to make arrangements for the sale, otherwise than at auction, of wool received by a broker for sale at auction that the Commission considers cannot advantageously be offered for sale at auction and for the processing of any such wool before sale; 
That is the information I can give to  Senator Cant  at the moment. 
Clause 14 merely provides that if there is improper conduct by a member in carrying out the duties of bis office, the Minister may dismiss him. 
The Minister for the Navy has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The refitting costs on HMAS 'Melbourne' since 1st January 1965 total $11.684m. This figure includes collision repairs and the sum of $8.665m for the extended refit of HMAS 'Melbourne' between January 1968 and January 1969. In the period in question the Government approved the purchase of Skyhawk and Tracker aircraft and support equipment for use in HM AS 'Melbourne' and at HMAS Albatross' (the Naval Air Station) at a total estimated cost of $69.157m. 
The Senate is debating a Bill which is to establish a statutory body known as the Australian Wool Commission. The Commission is to be empowered to operate a flexible reserve price scheme for wool sold at auction and to perform a number of other functions relating to the wool clip, aimed at improving the marketing of Australian wool. When we talk of marketing we have to consider it in a much wider sphere than just the physical selling of wool. We must consider it firstly in the light of the preparation and handling of the wool which is to be sold, its transportation and the use of scientific and technological aids to increase the efficiency of the marketing process. 
Some speakers in this debate seemed to adopt the attitude that bringing this Bill into this place and setting up the Australian Wool Commission is the be-all and end-all of this operation. The marketing requirements which will be created by this Bill must be considered along with other measures being pursued as a a matter of urgency by the Government. I refer to such things as debt reconstruction and farm adjustment. We also have to consider the setting up of complex wool villages and so on. This Bill represents only a part of the overall operation being carried out by the Government in an endeavour to assist the wool industry during its difficult times. 
The presentation of this Bill marks for some honourable senators the close of a long period during which we have been involved in marketing problems. I refer to  Senator Young, Senator Bull  and myself. Those years have been most trying and frustrating. I remember making my maiden speech in this House during which I referred to the establishment of a reserve price scheme. I suggested, as was suggested today, that New Zealand and South Africa should work in co-operation with us. The wool industry has been, and still is, a great industry despite the fact that it is has very deep problems at present. It supplies a considerable amount of our export earnings and, as other honourable senators have said today, it plays a very important role in country areas because it holds people to those outback areas and gives them a livelihood. This assists in decentralising the population. But the industry has problems, and some of the answers have been found. 
I think some honourable senators went a little further in this debate than merely talking about the establishment and operation of the Australian Wool Commission. Most of them had something to say about what they thought should be done with the wool industry. Strangely enough, a number of the things referred to have already been done. 1 would like to refer to some of these things. The Government has been blamed for doing nothing until this time, lt was suggested that it has taken this action only because a Senate election is to be held in the near future. 
Some honourable senators who spoke in this debate referred to what happened back in 1965. An odd one or two went back to 1964. But let us turn our minds back to 1950.  Senator Cant  said that if the Government in 1950 had accepted the offer of the American Government we would have got 100d per lb for our wool. He was talking about the pre-emption days when America, through the International Materials Conference in 1950, suggested that wool auctions should be suspended and replaced by a scheme involving international allocation of wool with an internationally agreed price ceiling imposed on wool exporting countries. In other words. America was saying to other countries: We will come in and get your wool. We will take what we want and we will give you 10Od per lb for it. You can sell the wool we do not want to someone else for the best price you can get.' The Government would not accept that proposition. We told America that if she wanted our wool she had to come and buy it on the market here in Australia. The result was that after the outbreak of the Korean War we did not get 10Od per lb,  Senator Cant;  many woolgrowers got up to 240d per lb.  Senator Cant  said that we should have accepted that offer then and given away all the opportunities and price rises obtained since. 
I will now refer to 1951. Honourable senators said this afternoon that this Government should have set up a reserve price plan. They said that the Government should have had a scheme under which Australia, New Zealand and South Africa, which were the biggest wool producers in the world, could have got together and done something about stabilising the price. In 1951 the Government offered the wool growers of Australia a reserve price plan. This was a joint scheme between Australia, New Zealand, South Africa and the United Kingdom and it involved formal agreements between the four governments. Not only did we offer the wool growers that plan but we offered them a fixed floor price to be determined at the beginning of each season and not to be altered during the season except in exceptional circumstances. Honourable senators opposite have said that the Government should be doing this now, but we offered this scheme to the wool industry in 1951 and the industry would not accept it. The proposal was rejected by a 4 to 1 vote. We even offered wool growers a backing of approximately £Stg66m at that lime, but still they would not accept it. 
In 1960 economic measures were introduced because the wool industry, and the rural community generally, said that prices were starting to get away from them, that costs were increasing. The Government introduced some economic measures which cost the Government dearly, but for some years afterwards these had a stabilising effect on prices. Yet the Opposition says that the Government has done nothing. In 1960, because of increasing costs and poorer wool prices, the Government set up the Philp Committee to inquire into the wool industry. This Committee reported that because the industry had spoken with two voices, and no-one of any real authority had a voice in the industry, the industry should have a voice of its own. It suggested the Australian Wool Industry Conference as that voice. The set-up was altered and the Australian Wool Bureau became the Australian Wool Board. 
The Board established certain committees, one of which was a marketing committee to examine marketing and to make suggestions about what the Government should do. This committee got to work, lt worked intensely over the years and came forward just before 1965 with a suggestion for a reserve price scheme. The Government examined the suggestion and said ih.it because New Zealand and South Africa were already operating their own schemes the plan would apply only to Australian wool. Like the 1951 plan, it was to provide a fixed reserve price. Finance was to be provided by the wool growers to the extent of $60m and by the trading banks to the extent of $ 1.00m. On top of that the Commonwealth Government was to guarantee to provide any additional money that was needed. When it was put to a vole the growers said: 'No, we do not want if. This was the fourth time that the Government stepped in and took action on behalf of the wool growers. 
Today we have been told that we have introduced this legislation because a Senate election is imminent. Let me remind the Senate of what has happened. In January of this year it was announced that a committee would be established to advise the Wool Board. This was at a time when the average price for wool was 39.67c per lb and at a time when the Australian Labor Party was keeping very quiet about the price of wool - when it was not saying a word about increased costs. On 6th March it was announced that the Advisory Committee of the Australian Wool Board would be established with certain personnel to serve on it. That Committee set to work and finally produced a report to the Wool Board on 6th July. The Wool Board went along with the report, met the two Federal organisations and discussed the report with them. Then there was a meeting of the Wool Industry Conference. Finally these two Federal bodies and the Australian Wool Industry Conference presented their recommendations to the Government on 7th July. The Government's decision, together with the Crawford report, was considered and accepted by the Wool Industry Conference on 14th October, and last Tuesday this Bill was introduced into the Parliament That is the background to this Bill which the Opposition claims the Government has introduced in a hurry in an attempt to gain some votes at the Senate election. I shall not trace all the ins and outs of the Bill. This was done very well in the second reading speech of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony),  but I should like, quickly, to make a few comments on some of the matters raised by honourable senators during the course of this debate. 
First, I refer to the remarks of  Senator Wilkinson  who opened the debate for the Opposition. He claimed that this scheme was simply a continuation of the price averaging plan. All I can say in reply is that the honourable senator cannot have looked closely at the Bill if he thinks that. The reason for setting up the Commission, its powers and functions, are stated clearly in the Bill and have been elaborated in the Minister's second reading speech. The Commission's main function is to operate a flexible reserve price scheme for wool sold at auction. All growers will, therefore, be protected by the reserve price scheme because the results of it must flow to those who sell wool privately. The honourable senator referred to what he regarded as one of the faults of the Commission. He complained that it was not a single body designed to acquire, appraise and market wool, lt is not, and that is not what the industry sought. By the industry, of course, [ mean the Australian Woolgrowers and Graziers Council, the Australian Wool and Meat Producers Federation and the Australian Wool Industry Conference. The Advisory Committee of the Wool Board, and the Wool Board itself, have had a hand in the mix. The word 'single' was used by the industry initially, but it really was a misuse of the word as can be seen from the Minister's second reading speech. Next the honourable senator spoke about the composition of the Commission and said that the Australian Labor Party wanted a majority of wool growers on it. The reason for the Commission's small composition is set out in the second reading speech. 
I accept that. It is essential to have the necessary skills and expertise on the Commission. I think this would be recognised. It must be a small and efficient body. The honourable senator gave me the impression that the 3 members of the Commission with special qualifications would be brokers and buyers. The members can be drawn from a very wide field as sub-clause (4.) of clause 7 of the Bill indicates. Every endeavour will be made to obtain the widest range of skill. The honourable senator said also that a member of the Commission could be sacked if he disagreed with the Minister, but this is not so. I understand that a member can be. dismissed only because of misbehaviour or for physical or mental incapacity. 
I must make 1 reference to  Senator Douglas  Scott.  His  contribution was a very fine and well reasoned speech, particularly for a new senator who is making only his second or third speech in this place. An honourable senator raised the question of promotion of blends. I understand that this question is to be examined in depth at the International Wool Secretariat meeting at Pretoria, South Africa, commencing on 9th November this year.  Senator Milliner  gave the impression that a drop in wool prices can be due only to collusion between buyers. I understand that a drop in prices can be due to a number of factors, such as the economic conditions applying in major wool consuming countries, the level of activity in the wool textile industry, the fiscal and monetary policies followed by governments in overseas countries, and competition from synthetic fibres. All these, when taken together or singly, have quite an impact on the price of wool. 
Finally I should like to comment on  Senator Kennelly's  remarks. The honourable senator talked about co-operation with New Zealand and South Africa. Provision is made in clause 18 (1.) of the Bill for co-operation with authorities and organisations in other countries with respect to measures aimed at the more efficient marketing of wool. Again I thank honourable senators for their contributions to the debate. I am very glad to see that the Opposition is supporting the Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Sitting suspended from 5.57 to  8  p.m. 
In Committee. 
Clauses 1 to 10  -  by leave - taken together. 
 Senator O'Byrne  asked me where the Corporation fits into the Australian Wool Commission. 
1 know. Let me get to it. I am talking about the! Corporation first of all. The Corporation fits in in this way: The Commission will absorb the Corporation. The Pty Ltd* became a company because it wanted to constitute within its ambit a number of various interests in the wool industry. In other words, it took under its wing the Corporation. So it became a 'Pty Ltd' or a company to take in the various functions or interests in the wool industry.  Senator McClelland  spoke about the Minister appointing 2 grower representatives from the Australian Wool Industry Conference. The Minister appoints them from this Conference because the Conference is made up of the Australian Woolgrowers and Graziers Council and the Australian Wool and Meat Producers Federation. 
Therefore the industry voice is represented in that body. 
The Minister goes to that body and seeks its advice as to what grower representation there should be from that body. While I am dealing with this matter, in reply to  Senator Wilkinson  1 would say that 1 cannot tell him whether 1 representative will come from each of the Federal bodies or the 2 will come from 1 body. This decision will be up to the organisation and the Australian Wool Industry Conference. 
Minister, is it not? 
No. 
He will be discussing it with the Conference. 
The 
Minister makes the appointment. But he does not just walk into the committee and say: '1 will have you. 2 blokes,* and appoint them. He discusses it with the Australian Wool Industry Conference. 
That Ls right. 1 want to refer to  Senator McClelland's  question. When we come to the selection of the  Chairman  of the Commission we find that he has a seat on the Wool Board. There are already 11 members on the Board, of whom 6 are woolgrowers. Three are special representatives. There is a Commonwealth Government representative and there is the  Chairman. Senator McClelland  says that the  Chairman  of the Australian Wool Commission could sway the meeting as to whom it recommends to the Minister. It was desirable for the  Chairman  to be on the Wool Board because, as honourable senators know, in the past the Wool Board played a very prominent part in promotional activities and research. No doubt a lot of this information would be wanted by the Commission. It was then thought that by having the  Chairman  of the Commission on the Wool Board he would be getting first hand knowledge of what was going on and could convey it to the representatives of the Commission. 
Clauses agreed to. 

 Australian Wool 

Clause 11. (1.) A member, other than the  Chairman  or the member representing the Commonwealth, may, with the approval of the Commission, appoint a person, other than a member, to be his  deputy,  and may revoke any such appointment. 
1 shall reply to  Senator Cant  first. In the first place, a member appointed to the Commission would be a man of responsibility and with expertise in a particular field of marketing. He would not bc absent from meetings of the Commission for a continuing time or for a whole series of meetings. Therefore, being a man of responsibility, I think he would insist that his  deputy  be a man of responsibility and 30 October 1970 perhaps a man with expertise in the same field in which he has expertise. A similar position arises in relation to the Australian Wool Board, the Australian Wool Testing Authority and the Australian Meat Board. In other words, in all commodity boards similar provisions apply. Parliament has passed that legislation. The amendment moved by  Senator Wilkinson  is not acceptable to the Government. We believe that it would be far better for the Commission at a meeting to appoint a  deputy  of a member who cannot attend the meeting because he is in Melbourne than to wait until the Minister is available to make the appointment. The necessity for the approval of the Commission is considered to be sufficient safeguard against the unlikely event of a member appointing an unsuitable person to be his  deputy.  Similar provisions apply in relation to the commodity boards about which I have spoken. 
 I would like to read to the Senate clause 16(1.) (c). The clause states:  (1.) If a member - 
is absent, except on leave granted by the Minister, from three consecutive meetings of the commission; or the Minister shall, by notice published in the Gazette, remove the member from office. 
If a man is going overseas, as  Senator Cant  said, and he will be absent from  3  meetings he can go to the Minister and say: 'Look, I will be absent from the next 3 meetings andI want your permission'. The Minister will ask: 'Who are you appointing as your deputy?' The deputy will be named. If this meets with the Minister's approval the member of the Commission will be given leave of absence. On the other hand, if a member who is in Australia has already been away from 2 consecutive meetings and, for instance, something turns up in his business which prevents him from attending the third meeting he can go along to the Minister and say: 'I must miss this meeting; it will be the third meeting I have missed in a row and under the Act I will be disqualified'. The member can then obtain permission from the Minister to be absent from the meetings. 
You are not reading the clause thatI am.I am putting forward my argument. The Government is not prepared to support this amendment. A number of reasons have been put forward by the Opposition as to why we should support the amendment.  Senator Cant  got down to the position where he said that the Commission could hold meetings with only 5 members present Let us have a look at this argument. Firstly, the  Chairman,  who is a full time member, will attend the meeting. He is likely to know exactly- 
I am taking this example; the honourable sena tor brought up all sorts of red herrings. Next, there is a government member appointed by the Minister. If there is to be a quorum of 5 there will need to be 3 other representatives present. Let me suggest that one of them will come from the industry representatives and the other 2 will perhaps be from the special appointees. Can anything go wrong with this sort of arrangement? 

 Senator Cant hinted that the Commission would deal with an unlimited sum of money. Let us have a look at this. The Commission has to report to the Minister and to the Treasurer every fortnight.  Senator McClelland  said that he did not think that members of the Commission, who will be men of responsibility, will do anything they shoul dnot do. But he went on to say that surely there will always be exceptions. He pointed to one recent case in New South Wales. I ask the honourable senator: If there were a meeting of 5 members consisting of the  Chairman,  a government representative, a representative from industry and 2 special appointees, does be think that the  deputy  of an appointee on that day could do something wrong and could involve the Commission in the expenditure of some substantial sum of money? We do not believe that he could. So the Government does not feel that it can support this amendment. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be left out  (Senator Wilkinson's amendment)  be left out. 
 I must inform  Senator Cant  that clause 12 was drafted in this form in order to meet the wishes of the Senate as expressed in regard to legislation previously brought before the Parliament. It would have been much easier for the draftsmen to put this information in the Bill and have the Governor-General fix the salaries. The Senate has objected from time to time to that course being followed and the clause was therefore drafted in this way. I cannot inform the Committee what the salary range will be. This will have to be negotiated. The honourable senator said that we must go out and get the best type of men and the best equipped men for this job. All of us have seen advertisements in the paper calling for applications for positions as top men in the business world. They state that the salary is to be negotiated. That is probably what will happen in this case. 
-I shall deal firstly with the amendment to clause 16(1.) where, after the word 'member' the Opposition seeks to insert the words 'or his  deputy'.  Clause 5, in part, states: member' means9 a member of the Commission, and includes the Chairman; 
Sub-clause (5.) provides: 
The preceding provisions of this section (other than paragraph (c) of sub-section (1)- - 
That is the paragraph which refers to a member being absent without being granted leave) - apply to and in relation to a deputy of a member in like manner as they apply to and in relation to a member. 
So the Government believes that adding the words 'or deputy* is quite unnecessary because of this provision that I have pointed out. The Government believes that the subclause which the Opposition wants to insert in clause 16 is neither necessary nor desirable. The Bill provides that the full time  Chairman  of the Commission must not engage in paid employment outside the duties of his office. This is laid down in clause 16 (1.) (a). With regard to the members of the Commission other than the  Chairman  the adoption of the amendment would mean that a wool selling broker would be excluded from being appointed as a member of the Commission even though it may be highly desirable to have his special skills. 
The 
Government has a different view to that and so we cannot accept the amendment. In clause 1 6 (2.) the Opposition moved for the deletion of certain words. 1 point out again to the Committee that the subclause is the standard form that has been included in Commonwealth Acts creating statutory corporation since 1956. The words proposed to be omitted by the amendment are copied from section 44 of the Constitution where they are used to make it an exception to the provision that a person who has a direct or indirect pecuniary interest in an agreement with the Public Service of the Commonwealth is incapable of being a member of Parliament. In the present Bill the words referred to would dispense with the necessity for a member to disclose a shareholding interest in a public company in which he was merely an ordinary investment shareholder and not a director or manager. If the amendment were passed an example of its effect is that if the Commission effected an insurance policy with an insurance company in which the member of the Commission happened to own a few shares purchased on the stock exchange it would be necessary for the member to disclose his shareholding and refrain from taking part in any discussion on the matter. Moreover, if the member failed to make a disclosure, perhaps because he thought the matter of no significance, the Minister would be obliged to dismiss him from office in accordance with clause 16(l.)(d), and it is not considered necessary that a clause should go so far. The Government cannot accept any of the amendments. 
The honourable senator's question is obviously one on which I will have to seek information from the Department of Primary Industry. 
They are Taiwanese. If charges are to be laid they will be laid under the Continental Shelf (Living Natural Resources) Act 1968 which came into force on 15th April 1970. 
I shall give whatever assistance I can by approaching the Minister for Repatriation, provided the honourable senator gives to me the detail of the question that he has asked. 
At noon on Wednesday, 28th October, the skipper of an Australian fishing vessel operating about 90 miles off the Queensland coast went alongside a foreign fishing vessel and immediately made a report by radio to appropriate Government authorities. Following the prompt action by the skipper of the Australian fishing boat the Queensland fishing authorities made it possible for the Department of Primary Industry to be alerted and for various Commonwealth Departments to take appropriate action. I understand that from that time the following action took place: A Formosan fishing vessel was boarded by a naval boarding party. Two Commonwealth fishing officers from the Department of Primary Industry went aboard at 4.45 p.m. on Friday, 30th October, at somewhere around Swains Reef about 100 miles off the coast of Rockhampton. The patrol boat was HMAS Barbette' and it escorted the Formosan boat to Port Alma, arriving there on Sunday morning. It is at present berthed under Commonwealth Police guard. The captain and crew member of the Formosan boat are being questioned by* officers of the Department of Primary Industry concerning unlicensed fishing activities in the Swains Reef area. 

Formosa. 
This is a pretty big question. No doubt the matter would have to go before the Australian Agricultural Council for discussion before the Minister for Primary Industry could take the action the honourable senator is suggesting he might take. However, I will draw his attention to the honourable senator's question and take it from there. 
(2.40) -  Senator Cant  referred to clause I8(l.)(i) which states as a function of the Commission:  to maintain records of persons carrying on the business of purchasing wool from wool growers outside the auction system and to obtain from such - persons information of such kinds as the Minister approves; 
The situation is that the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  has already had discussions with the various State Ministers concerned with agriculture. He has explained to them the intention of the legislation and the functions and powers of the Australian Wool Commission. The State Ministers have accepted these explanations and they have agreed to look at the legislation as it affects their States and introduce complementary legislation in regard to the setting up of this Commission. Last week in the debate  Senator Cant  and his fellow speakers from the Opposition side of the chamber talked about their disappointment in the Government for not making this an acquisition scheme. If the Government had done this the private buyers about whom  Senator Cant  is seeking information would have been done away with. Being a fellow Western Australian he would know what the private buyers have done in Western Australia in regard to the price obtained for wool. I must say that some of the private buyers have set up a very good system. They are selling wool on a kind of appraisement system. They buy the wool, appraise it and then sell it on quality. One or two businesses in the Fremantle area which I have visited have a high reputation with overseas buyers for the standard of wool they are sending out. 

 Senator Cant also asked about clause 18(1.) (k) which states another function of the Commission as: with the approval of the Minister, to participate in negotiations with respect to charges associated with the marketing of wool, including freight rates. 
I can see no reason why the Commission with the approval of the Minister, should not negotiate with the brokers in regard to handling costs and selling charges. Over the years this has been done by the organisational side of the wool industry. With the setting up of the Commission there is no reason why the Commission cannot take over that role or play a leading part in it. Negotiations on overseas shipping freight rates are done through the existing machinery but againI do not see why the Commission should not be allowed to play a part, provided the Minister wants them to play that part. If the Minister does not see fit for the Commission to take part the wool growers still have the existing machinery through which they can discuss overseas shipping freight rates. I replied last Friday to the point made by  Senator Wilkinson.  I accept what he has said.I am glad that I can agree with him. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 19. (1.) The flexible reserve price scheme operated by the Commission shall be a scheme under which - 
from day to day. or as frequently as the Commission thinks necessary, reserve prices for the various types of wool being offered for sale at auction are determined by or on behalf of the Commission, having regard to the bidding at recent auctions and to all other relevant information available to the Commission; 
if, in respect of any wool submitted for sale at auction in accordance with arrangements referred to in paragraph (d) of subsection (1.) of the last preceding section, a bid equal to or greater than the appropriate reserve price determined by the Commission is not made, the Commission is prepared to buy the wool at the appropriate reserve price so determined; and 
the Commission, as and when it thinks expedient, re-offers for sale at auction, or otherwise disposes of. wool acquired by it under the scheme. 
 Senator Cant  and  Senator Wilkinson  referred to various communications from and discussions that they have had with wool growers. The wool industry has been notorious throughout its history for having a number of voices speaking on behalf of growers and for individualists amongst the growers speaking for themselves. There is no doubt that whatever scheme we introduced would bring communications from wool growers saying that they were not satisfied, that the scheme did not go far enough or that the scheme went too far. Let me refer briefly to the wool section of the Farmers Union of Western Australia, having had a great deal of experience in and being one time  president  of the organisation. It had 4 representatives from the wool section to the Australian Wool Industry Conference. 
One had been  president  of the union and also  president  of the Australian Wool and Meat Producers Federation. He was elected by the conference of the wool section of the Farmers Union. If a wool grower did not agree with the selection of a representative he had the opportunity to go to his branch meetings be elected and go to the conference and have his say. It was all very democratic. Not only did Western Australia have 4 delegates representing the Farmers Union, it also had 2 representing the Pastoralists and Graziers' Association, so it had 6 representatives in all. There was plenty of opportunity for the majority of the wool growers in Western Australia to express their view through their delegates. 
I turn now to the first proposed amendment. Clause 19 of the Bill relates to the reserve price scheme to be operated by the Commission under which from day to day, or as frequently as the Commission thinks necessary, reserve prices will be determined. The Opposition seeks to leave out the words 'from  day  to  day,  or'. What is the object of that? I agree with  Senator Cant  and  Senator Wilkinson  who have said that they want to see the reserve price fixed from day to  day  or even more frequently. That is the intention. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  mentioned that in his second reading speech. If those words were omitted from the clause it would mean that the Commission would fix the reserve price 'frequently' which could be every 12 months. The Opposition, by its proposed amendment, does not want the reserve price to be fixed according to the market demand for wool. If the demand rises and the buyers come in and there is a bit of competition between them, surely we want the Commission to be in a position where it can lift its reserve price. That is the intention of this clause. We believe that the words which the Opposition seeks to omit are necessary. They are in the clause to indicate that if the price is to bc fixed frequently it should be fixed on a day to day basis or even more frequently. 
The Opposition's second amendment to clause 19 is as follows: 
After paragraph (b) of sub-clause (1.) insert the following paragraph: (ba) If the Commission buys the wool al the appropriate reserve price it will make arrangements so that the grower whose wool is bought is paid within 14 days. 
All I can say to that is that Opposition senators have not studied the Bill or the wool industry. After all, the Commission is acting only as a buyer. According to the conditions of sale in the sale room, the buyers of wool have a prompt date of 16 days. A buyer coming here representing an overseas country would, under the conditions of sale, pay for his wool within 16 days, but the Opposition's amendment wants to tie the Commission, which is also a buyer, to pay for the wool within 14 days. I do not think that was the Opposition's intention. Last Friday honourable senators opposite were trying to give the Commission all the flexibility in the world. Now they are trying to tie its hands by dotting every i and crossing every t. We cannot accept that situation. 
The Opposition's third amendment provides: 
At the end of paragraph (c) of sub-clause (1.) add 'at the best possible price'. 
Is not that the idea of setting up the Commission? The grower has the opportunity to put his own reserve price on his wool. If bis wool goes into the auction room and the buyer does not offer him a price that is equivalent to or higher than his reserve price, he has the opportunity to withdraw his wool from sale. If he wants his money, he can decide not to exercise the reserve price he has put on his wool and to ask the Commission whether it will buy his wool. The Commission will offer him a price. He can either accept the Commission's price or withdraw his wool from sale. 
On the other hand, if the Commission has a look at a grower's wool, sees that it is dirty and burry, and believes that there is not a very great demand for that wool, it can then suggest to the grower that he withdraw that wool or sell it to the Commission and let the Commission have it treated. Those are the options that are open to the grower. We believe that the Commission will act in the best interests of the growers. So, we believe that this amendment is completely unnecessary. Therefore, the Government cannot support it. 
'I am not going to delay the Committee for long. 1 have given the reasons why the Government cannot support this amendment. I would like to deal with the mailer raised by  Senator Wilkinson.  He  referred  to the proposed amendment moved by the Opposition to require the Commission to pay the grower within (4 days. He referred to a pool that he was in. The honourable senator was referring to a pool with a private broking firm in which he elects to take the average price over the period of the pool for each quality of wool. The situation created by the Bill is not the same. The grower will be offered a certain reserve price for that particular quality of wool. He can elect either to receive his money within 16 days, as the conditions of sale provide, or he can elect lo say no and withdraw his wool from the sale. All J can say in respect of  Senator Cant's  long dissertation is that last Friday when we were debating clause I I he wanted to remove the discretion relating to appointments from the Commission and to give it to the Minister, but now he has spent almost half an hour saying that the determination should be a matter for the Commission rather than for the Minister. The Government cannot support that proposition. 
Question put: 
That the amendments  (Senator Wilkinson's)  be agreed to. 
The Australian Labor Party is referring to clause 20 which deals with the price averaging plan to be operated by the Australian Wool Commission, and which goes on to provide certain things. Perhaps the best way I can answer the Opposition is by saying that in my experience in the wool industry probably one of the greatest problems has been with the small lots. Over the years the broking firms have tried to overcome this problem by means of what are known as inlerlotting and bulk classing. I say to  Senator Wilkinson  that the Government did not set up the price averaging plan and lay down the rules. The body that did this was established as a company. The whole idea of the PAP was to increase the price of the small lots of 1, 2 and 3 bales of wool which the buyers were not interested in when they were put up for auction by themselves. 
It would cut down everything. I am interested in the price brought by interlotting. As far as possible, small lots were combined into big lots. The buyers became interested and the growers had an opportunity to obtain a better price thanthey would otherwise have got. We found that the buyers become interested in the big lines. I do not know how  Senator Cant  can say that the PAP did not increase the price.If  Senator Cant  wants to make that sort of statement with some basis of fact he should trace a line of 2 bales of wool which come into the store and are sold by themselves and see what they bring, or let them go under the PAP and be interlotted into other lines. He could then compare the price. I ask honourable senators not to forget that under PAP the Government pays half of any extra charge. I am at a loss to see how an honourable senator can stand up in this place and say that the operation of the PAP has done nothing for the wool industry. He has no authority or no knowledge of the situation to justify his saying what he said. When a grower delivers wool for sale one of the conditions of sale is that he will let any lot from one to 3 bales go into the PAP. 
The whole aim of the PAP is to eliminate these small lots and build up bigger lines so that the buyers become interested in those lines.  Senator Cant  gave examples of how much it would cost for a bale of wool to be sold under the PAP. .He said that the Government paid half the cost. But a bale of wool weighs at least 300 lb. Some bales are much heavier. Even an increase in the price by lc would just about repay the grower for his trouble in putting the wool through the PAP system. The grower has an opportunity to obtain much more than lc a lb extra for his wool. That is why the Commission is to take over the Corporation and include the PAP system in its operations. I remind the Senate that about 40 per cent of the clip will be handled under PAP. The remainder will be handled under the reserve price scheme. Any wool which comes under the PAP and is put into a big line will have the. reserve price fixed to it just as any line of fleece wool will. If it does not make the reserve price it will be withdrawn from sale. First of all the growers within the reserve price scheme will be offered a price. If that price is not acceptable it will be withdrawn from sale, i am advised that when it is withdrawn it will be purchased by the Commission and probably re-offered later on. I cannot agree with what honourable senators have said. 1 think this clause is a very worthwhile clause and that it should be accepted. 
On a preliminary estimate, 5.5 million bales of the Australian wool clip will be offered this year.  Senator Cant  spoke about 3 bales of wool. I think that is drawing a red herring across the path of this debate. If the Commission, or anyone who knows wool, opened a bale of wool and saw 6 or 7 different types of wool in it, it would immediately send the bale to the bulk classing room. It would not be interlotted. The honourable senator's statement was rubbish. The rest of what he said is of his own thinking. I do not think it requires an answer from me. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 21 agreed to. 
Clause 22.  (1.) The Commission may, with the approval of the Minister, given with the concurrence of the Treasurer, borrow money froman approved bank or from another lender for the purposes of working capital of the Commission and give security over any of its assets for the purposes of any such borrowing. 
Clause 22 relates to borrowings by the Commission. Firstly,  I  wish to remind the Opposition that in the 1951 reserve price plan which was offered to the wool growers they were expected to raise something like £Stg38.5m as their part of financing the scheme. The 4 governments involved were going to meet the difference between the wool growers' allocation and the £Stg66m which was required. In the 1965 scheme which was offered to the wool growers they were once again called upon to make a contribution' to the capital fund. In this instance it was $60m. At the same time, to assist with the money required for the scheme the trading banks were "to supply SI 00m. In the scheme now proposed the wool growers themselves are not being asked to provide any money. If the scheme is to work properly, the Commission must have a large amount of finance. Because of the offer made by the trading banks in respect of the last scheme in 1965 the Government believes that they should be offered a chance to contribute to the finances of the Commission. This does not preclude the Reserve Bank from making, loans to the Commission if it is considered necessary. 

 Senator Cant spoke about control and said that the Commission has an open ended authority to borrow. He said that this could fall very heavily on the taxpayers. I remind  Senator Cant  of the following passage in the second reading speech of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony): 
The Bill makes provision for trading banks  to  participate in providing the finance required  for  the working capital of the Commission, and the Government would guarantee such loans as trading banks may make available to the Commission on acceptable terms and conditions. 
I am Just pointing it out.  Senator Cant  knows as well as I do from past history the requirements of the Treasury under such conditions as these. We believe that there is no necessity for the amendment moved by the Labor Party and the Government cannot support it. 
I would say that if the money was borrowed from another lender the Treasury would require the same understanding under acceptable terms and conditions from that lender. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be left out  (Senator Cant's amendment)  be left out. 
I well recall the Minister's statement earlier in the year. 1 also recall a question to me earlier in the year from  Senator Webster  on this matter. However, at present 1 cannot add to the information that was given by the Minister at the time.  Hut  I shall make inquiries and let the honourable senator know the result by letter. 
What the honourable senator says in the first part of his question is not a fact. I shall seek details of this matter and let him have them. I. will not answer the remaining part of the question. 
As one who has spent a good deal of his time in rural industries, I have been very interested in the announcements made by various people concerning reduction of the working week to 35 hours. A reduction of the working week by one-eighth must inflict on industries an increased labour cost of about 14 per cent. During the past week I have been listening to speeches by members of the Opposition about the dire straits of the primary industries at the present time. I think nothing could be more disastrous for a rural industry than an increase in work costs. I well recall that when wool prices increased in 1951 the Australian Workers Union sought a prosperity loading in the pastoral award. I believe that it is fair that those who are bound by that award should now give something in return to the primary industries for their efforts. 
I made no promise to  Senator Greenwood  that 1 would make a statement. 1 was answering off the cuff a question that he asked me. In regard to the number of awards, I heard  Senator Cant  ask the Leader of the Government the other day to provide a list of the awards and I think the Leader replied that he would seek that information, so I am not going to reply to that part of the question. The farm workers' award is not the only award that a farmer is bound by. He also comes under the pastoralists award. 
If the honourable senator wants to argue that, I point out to him that I paid rates for years te shearers who came under the pastoralists award and during the course of shearing no-one worked more than 40-hours a week. 
35-HOUR WEEK 
The drift of rural population from the country to the city is caused by increased costs and falling returns. As announced in the Budget, the Government is trying to do and will do everything that it can to effect farm reconstruction and debt adjustment in an endeavour lo assist these people. 
Well, if that means must plain nothing in  Senator Poke's  language, it means a great deal to the people whom this will affect vitally. I think that I have covered most of the points raised in the rest of the question. 
I am a great unionist at heart. I have demonstrated my belief by joining a union. Workers under awards relating to the pastoral industry and farm workers have obtained certain hours. I would not like to see them increased or decreased. But if  Senator Wheeldon  wants to go out into the country areas of Western Australia and advocate an increase of something like 20 per cent in costs in order to give the rural workers a 35-hour working week, I would be very happy for him lo do so. 
I should think that it is a matter of simple arithmetic. A reduction of 5 hours, from 40 hours to 35 hours, is one-eighth of the time. 
No, but when we take 5 over 35, which must be the increase in costs, this is one-seventh and that works out at an increase of about 14 per cent. I have never seen an increase granted to any sector of the community that did not lead to added costs by the time it reached the primary industries. My assumption would be that there would not be a direct increase of 14 per cent but. by the time it hit the farmer on the land, it would be 20 per cent. 
The 
Minister for the Army has provided the following answer to the honourable senators question: 
All soldiers are expected to be available for the type of duty mentioned; in fact it is not a new development for base staff to undertake patrolling, picquet duty and wire surveillance. 
All soldiers including drivers, batmen and mess stewards undergo about ten weeks basic infantry training on entry to the Army. In addition Army policy is that all those posted to Vietnam attend a battle efficiency course at the jungle training centre Canungra prior to going overseas. 
On behalf of the Australian Country Party I support the remarks made by  Senator Dame  Annabelle Rankin in offering good wishes and thanks to you,  Mr President,  and to the staff and all those who have made this session the success that perhaps it has been. On behalf of the Country Party I wish everyone the compliments of the season. 
Senate adjourned at 10.30 p.m. to a date and hour to be fixed by the  President 
The Minister for Repatriation has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Ex-servicemen may be hospitalised in departmental institutions or in non-departmental institutions at repatriation expense, for treatment of disabilities accepted as related to war service, irrespective of whether the disabilities are of an acute or chronic nature. 
Hospital treatment, at repatriation expense, may also be provided for disabilities which have not been accepted as related to war service for prescribed classes of beneficiaries, such as those ex-servicemen seriously disabled by accepted disabilities, service pensioners, 1914-18 War nurses and war widows. However, once these conditions have reached a chronic stage, there is no authority to retain the patient in hospital at departmental expense. 
Where hospital treatment of non-war caused disabilities only is involved, sustenance is not payable. 
No separate statistics are maintained of those in-patients discharged from departmental hospitals to other institutions at their own expense or retained in non-departmental hospitals at their own expense in the circumstances already mentioned above. 
Decisions in these types of cases are made on the authority of a senior medical officer of the department and either advised to the patient in hospital or forwarded to him. They are based on clinical findings and on an assessment of the relative specialist opinions, together with personal discussion between the medical officers involved. 
 Senator McClelland  referred to Division 876 item 01 - wine research. The estimate for that item is $50,000. He referred generally to the wine industry and made some remarks on production and consumption. I would like to say to him that this week a meeting of the Wine Advisory Committee is to be held. This committee was set up at the last meeting of the Australian Agricultural Council to look at this aspect of the industry. The Committee will be meeting today or tomorrow and probably at other times before February, when it will report back to the Agricultural Council. The Division to which the honourable senator referred is a new one for which funds have not previously been appropriated. In this instance the Commonwealth agreed to match contributions by the Australian Wine Board and the Australian Wine Research Institute on a dollar for dollar basis for a 5-year period commencing on 1st July 1970. The amount of the Commonwealth's contribution for 1970-71 will be $50,000. 
The reason for this is that the Australian wine industry has grown rapidly over the past decade. With the rapid expansion of wine production and greater emphasis on table wines there has been a corresponding increase in the need for research into problems associated with wine production and the quality of wine and in the need for technical advisory services to the industry. So the Government has agreed to contribute on a dollar for dollar basis with the Australian Wine Board and the Austraiian Wine Research Institute. 

 Senator Dame ANNABELLE RANKIN (Queensland - Minister for Housing) (11.10) - I would like to reply to some questions that were asked by  Senator Cavanagh  about the Postmaster-General's Department. The provision of $320,080 in respect of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board relates to technical equipment for broadcasting and television purposes. The Board's capital works funds are for technical equipment,for broadcasting and television and for the development and enforcement of technical standards governing broadcasting and television stations. Of the amount of $320,000, $212,000 is in respect of equipment necessary for the conduct of technical inspections of broadcasting stations. This duty was previously undertaken by the Postmaster-General's Department on behalf of the Board. The Board is in the process of taking over this duty from the Post Office. Under the Broadcasting and Television Act the Postmaster-General's Department is responsible for the installation of broadcasting and television transmitters. These are very extensive in number. I think that what 1 have said covers the points that were raised by the honourable senator. 
Any aircraft which we have surplus to requirements are sent to the Department of Supply for disposal. 
I am not giving anyone the run around. This is the procedure which takes place in my Department. I shall make some inquiries and sec what information I can find for the honourable senator. 
rs the honourable senator referring to the allocation of $100m to the States? 
 I would prefer to seek further details on this matter as I do not have this information with me at the moment. I will supply an answer to the honourable senator. 
I am not aware of all the details the honourable senator has given to the Senate. 1 shall take the matter up wilh the Minister for Primary Industry and obtain some information for the honourable senator. 
On behalf of the Austraiian Country Party I support most sincerely the tributes paid by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Willesee)  following the passing of the late  Senator Ormonde.  Jim Ormonde, as he was known to most of us, was a friend of mine. Ours was a friendship that went back to the early days when we became members of this Senate. We were appointed by our respective State Parliaments within a matter of weeks of each other in 1958. Later we contested the Senate election and were returned to the Senate. For various reasons both of us were out of this chamber for a matter of 7 months. From the outset Jim Ormonde and I had a common bond in that we came into this chamber as political novices very much aware of the important jobs in front of us. 1 speak for the Australian Country Party and,  I  believe, for every honourable senator in this chamber when 1 say that at all times Jim Ormonde applied himself with dedication and vigour to the task of ensuring good government for Australia. He staunchly supported his Party and attended to the needs of the electors. Jim Ormonde possessed a very human streak. When things got tough and tense in the Senate he used his sense of whimsy and joviality to remove the tension from this chamber instantly.  I  believe that such traits in a man are very important and 1 think it was because of them that Jim had so many friends not only in this Senate but throughout the Parliament. He will be sadly missed here both as a political colleague and as a friend of all of us. I and my Country Party colleagues extend our deepest sympathy to his widow and family. 
Proposals for the introduction of a research scheme which will benefit the pig industry have been put before the Government. This scheme, which would be similar to the research schemes operating already in several other rural industries such as the wool, wheat, meat, dairy, tobacco, egg and chicken meat industries, would be financed jointly by the industry and by the Commonwealth. The proposals put forward by the Australian Commercial Pig Producers Federation, which represents all pig producers, have been accepted by the Government. The operating levy suggested by the Federation is 5 cents per pig slaughtered for human consumption, with a maximum payment of 10 cents. Any rise in the levy would be on the advice of the industry. A small section of the Victorian pig industry has made representations for a poll of producers, but in view of the widespread acceptance of the whole scheme in all States it is felt that a referendum on this matter would serve no useful purpose. 
I am aware of the situation and it is a serious one. The problem is that the production of pears in 1970 was the largest ever and the carry over of canned pears at the end .of 1970 was something like  li  million to 2 million cartons. In the light of the marketing possibilities for the 1971 season the canneries have agreed that this year they will be able to process only about 75,000 tons. This leaves the situation which the honourable senator remarked on that there will be somewhere in the vicinity of 20,000 tons of pears surplus to requirements. It is true that the former Minister for Primary Industry visited the Shepparton district and discussed the problem of over production of pears with the growers concerned. At that time  Mr Anthony  discussed the possibility of growers submitting a claim for assistance for hardship. The growers agreed that they would raise the matter with the Victorian Government which has prime responsibility for this matter. It was agreed that if the Victorian Government passed the application on to the Commonwealth Government the matter would receive careful consideration. 
In the last parliamentary session as well as in recent months there were great discussions on the wool industry and the situation prevailing therein. Last November the Government put through legislation setting up the Australian Wool Commission. The Commission has been in operation now for some months. I believe it has been the salvation of the wool industry and t hope it will continue to operate. Following a detailed report by an inter-departmental committee the Government had talks with State Ministers and offered assistance to wool growers in the form of the SI 00m reconstruction plan. In the last Budget the Government made available a §30m emergency grant to the wool industry, because of falling wool prices and drought. These things speak volumes in themselves for the assistance that the Government is giving to the wool industry. The Senate can rest assured that the Government is having frequent talks with leaders of the industry, is watching the situation very carefully and will take what action it can to assist wool growers further. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has supplied the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The average price per pound paid for market ing quota tobacco leaf sold in Australia In each of the last 3 years was as follows: 1968- 114.5c per pound 1969 -116.2c per pound 1970- 114.0c per pound. 
 On 26th October  Senator Drury  asked the following question without notice: 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry been drawn to the extensive damage caused by frost to cereal crops in the southern Murray-Mallee area in South Australia? Experts have estimated that the expected barley yield of 3.5 million bushels will bc cut to 500,000 bushels, that approximately 10 per cent of the sultana and wine grape crops have been affected and that the wheat yield will be affected. Will the Minister ask the Government to extend to the growers affected by this disaster the same assistance that is extended to those entitled to drought relief. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has supplied the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The long standing policy of the Commonwealth in these matters is clear cut and is well recognised by the States. It is that the responsibility for any financial assistance as the result of damage to crops rests solely with the Slates, lt is only when major disasters occur that the Commonwealth is prepared to consider the provision of assistance to a Stale for the purpose of relief measures. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has supplied the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Australian Wheat Board advises that some starch produced from wheat flour is being used in the alumina industry. Compared with total domestic sales of wheat, the wheat equivalent of the starch so used is insignificant. 
Since starch, not wheat, is involved, the Wheat Board has no record of the quantities used. 
The Wheal Board advises that the home consumption price of wheat for all purposes was paid for all wheat equivalent of flour used in the production of starch up to 30th November 1969. Since that dale the home consumption price of wheat for flour products for industrial purposes has been paid. For the current marketing year (December, 1969 to November 1970) this price has been1431/2c per bushel for f.a.q. wheat bulk. f.o.r. ports of export basis, compared with1721/2c on the same basis for wheat for flour for human consumption. The general level of export prices this season has been, and is at present, below the former price. 
I am informed by the Wheat Board that the wheat that was sold to millers for processing into flour for industrial purposes was not rendered unfit for human consumption. However, the millers obtained undertakings from the starch manufacturers that the flour purchased by them would be used solely for the starch industry. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has furnished the following reply. 
and (2) The Australian Wheat Board has informed me that a Wimmera wheat grower, whom it understands to be a member ofthe Legislative Council of Victoria, withdrew 2,770 bushels of wheat from the Dooen (Victoria) silo. The Board has also advised that the wheat was withdrawn on the application of the grower on the understanding that it was to be used tor stock feed on his own property. 
The information available to me does not enable me to say whether or not the wheat was used for the purpose for which itwas withdrawn, 
Between December 1957 and June 1970 about 20 RAAF Dakotas became surplus to Air Force requirements. I do not Have the other information at hand. 
1 did answer a question asked by the honourable senator yesterday in regard to pear growing in the Goulburn Valley. Although 1 did not hear the radio announcement to which he refers, it has been drawn to my attention today. As 1 pointed out yesterday, the production of pears last year was the greatest  the  industry has known, so much so that the carryover of canned pears at the end of 1970 was in the vicinity of  li  million to 2 million cartons. The Minister for Primary industry visited the area recently, had discussions with the growers and informed them that, if a case seeking assistance from the Commonwealth was made out by the State Government, within whose responsibility this falls, the Commonwealth would give it very careful consideration. In view of: what the honourable senator has said to me about approaching the Prime Minister, I shall take, his request forward. 
A review is going on within the Repatriation Department at present. I shall draw to the Minister's attention the question asked by the honourable senator and. will get a reply for him. 
This matter does not fall within the administra-tion of my Department, but I shall seek some information; and give  it to the  honourable senator. 
I wish to supplement the answer given. The Department of Air did not receive the request mentioned by the honourable senator. 
The 
Government has' at all times: kept under constant review what is happening iti primary industry, lt has done this in many ways. It has done it, first of 'all, by having the door of the Minister 'for Primary Industry open to the leaders of. primary, industries to see him whenever they feel they want to discuss problems with him. The Minister for Primary Industry has met State Ministers of Agriculture and their departmental officers oyer the years. We have 'Cabinet discussions with sectors of the rural industry in regard to economic problems. Also the Department of Primary Industry itself is constantly in touch with rural industries and their problems. From time to time the Government may assist in or commission special investigations. A good example of this was when the Government, made the Bureau of' Agricultural Economics available to the Australian Wool Board Advisory Committee which was set up to consider the economic probelems facing the wool industry. The Bureau of Agricultural Economics undertook a special review of reconstruction and farm adjustment for the Government. This was followed by the Minister for Primary Industry and the Treasurer discussing with State Ministers the setting up of a national reconstruction board. 
The honourable senator asks why w.e do not set up some body to look at the whole situation. Let me take his mind back to 1948-49,. when a similar situation and feeling existed among rural people. They asked for a board on the lines of the present Tariff Board to be set up. The Government came forward with a suggestion for a primary industries investigation board whose, job would have been to investigate the whole rural scene. But the individual sectors of primary industry said: *N.o, we do not want that. We are quite capable of looking after our own industries'. The wheat industry pointed to the costs index committee and said that that committee was quite: capable of looking after the problems of . that industry. I believe, that the Government has the problems of primary industry under close scrutiny and that it is up to the individual sections of industry to come and consult with the Government on their problems. 
I understand that there is only one agent in each seaport centre to handle  (he  sale of marine charts. However, I think that the best way to obtain the information which the honourable senator- is seeking is for him to place the question on notice. 
It is true that certain DC3 aircraft are surplus.. 
1 did not say that. I said they are surplus. They are at Laverton awaiting disposal. Their disposal is not simply a matter of flying them away. Certain procedures1 are laid down for the disposal of aircraft which are surplus to the requirements of, the Boya! Australian Air Force. Their disposal is arranged through the Department pf Supply and the aircraft must be taken to ,a certain location where they ate put up ton sale. They cannot fly to that point so in some cases they have to be dismantled and transported to it. These are certain procedures by which L through the Aif Board, can dispose df Air Board property. I observe those procedures, fi no offers are made to purchase- the aircraft th§y remain' where they are. 
It is quite likely that the honourable senator is trying to do that. 
The situation is that the Royal Australian Air Force had some aircraft which were surplus to requirements. These planes had not been in service for many years. In addi tion, later this year we will have 3 more aircraft of the same type surplus to requirements. For the Air Force to be able to dispose of these aircraft the Department of Supply must be informed that they are available for disposal. From then on action to dispose of them is taken by the Department of Supply. 
The weed to which the honourable senator referred is, 1 think, generally called caterpillar weed or potato weed. It is fairly prevalent in New South Wales, particularly in the Riverina area, and in the western districts of Victoria. As the honourable senator said, it is a toxic weed. The poison has a rather slow effect on sheep. Sheep can be pastured on it for one year. If they are pastured on it for a second year, up to 50 per cent or 60 per cent of the flock, particularly if they are British breeds or of that cross, will die. The deaths generally take place after the weed has died. The Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation has done some research on the effects of administering cobalt. I do not know how far that research has gone. I certainly shall draw the attention of the Minister for Primary Industry to what the honourable senator has said and try to obtain some information for him. 
 Senator Fitzgerald  and  Senator Bishop  have, Over a period of time, shown interest in this matter.  Senator Fitzgerald  has already indicated that when he asked me this question during the last session I replied that it was something which still had to be worked out between the Royal Australian Air Force and the Department of Defence in the United States of America. At that time I also added the rider that it could not be worked out until we had taken deliver of the 24 Fill aircraft.' At the moment the position is still the same. 
I shall have to seek that information for the honourable senator. 
1 think the honourable senator will be aware that $10Om will be made available to the States over a period of 4 years, J75m being made available on loan and $25m being made available on grant. I understand that at the meeting of the States1 representatives with the Treasurer and the Minister for Primary Industry the States' representatives got together and worked out their, view of a quota for each of the States concerned. I do not have at present the details of the breakup of the amount to be made available but I shall seek the information and give it to the honourable senator. 
This matter was drawn to my attention on Tuesday following a question asked by  Senator Webster. 
The facts are as stated by the honourable senator. I notice that he did not offer an alternative so that these growers could diversify into another field if they pull up their trees. As I replied to  Senator Webster,  the former Minister for Primary Industry made a visit to this Goulburn Valley area and talked with, the growers. The Department and the Government are well aware of the situation and are endeavouring to do whatever is possible to assist the primary producers. 
The honourable senator's question is about a very contentious matter. I am well aware of this problem as it will affect some of the outports in my own State of Western Australia. I remind the honourable senator that the Australian Wool Board conducted over a period of time a study which indicated that this would mean big savings in the handling cost of wool. The honourable senator may recall that last June the Wool Industry Act was amended to empower the Australian Wool Board to erect and equip such complexes or to lend money for this purpose. Under the new proposal the Treasurer is authorised, to guarantee repayment of the principal and interest on Wool Board borrowings for these complexes. This has already been done. When that legislation was going through the Parliament the honourable senator offered no resistance to it. I am well aware of some of the problems that are going to be involved in the construction of these complexes. I think it is true to say that large savings can be made, lt is a matter that the wool industry will have to watch carefully to see whether it can obtain a balance between centralising these complexes and saving money in the handling of wool. 
I understand that talks have taken place between the Premier of Queensland and the Prime Minister in regard to the natural disaster area in the far west of Queensland. I do not know what those talks encompass but 1 shall draw the attention of the Prime Minister to the honourable senators question. 
The total amount paid as at 31st December 1970 was $US225.7m, representing an increase of $US4m on the figure that I gave in reply to a question on notice in May 1970. They are the only payments that have been made. 
Earlier this morning  Senator Wriedt  asked me whether the ferrying of the gift aircraft to Cambodia would be carried out by Royal Australian Air Force pilots. 1 have made some inquiries from my Department, and I have been advised that the RAAF has received no request for its pilots to fly the gift aircraft to Cambodia and that at this stage it has no indication of how the aircraft will be sent to Asia. 
 Senator Milliner  has made just the one point in this debate, namely, that the Executive has overridden the wishes of the Parliament. Let me remind him of what happened in November 1929 when this embargo was introduced. Before question time one day a rumour was running around Parliament House that the Government - a Labour government was in power at that time - was likely to impose an embargo on the shipment of rams from Australia. At question time in the House of Representatives an Opposition member raised the matter with the Minister concerned, who said that there was no embargo at that time but the Government proposed to make a statement later in the day. 
That afternoon a statement was issued by the Minister to the effect that an embargo had been placed on the export of. rams. This was done without any mention of it in the Parliament and without any debate. The next day  Sir Earle  Page, as he later became, raised the issue in the House, and the Minister said: T have been talking to the Farmers and Settlers Association in New South Wales and a group of sheep breeders has been here for some days talking to me. So I have decided to impose the ban.' What happened to the Queensland, Victorian, South Australian and Western Australian growers? They were not consulted at that time; neither was the Parliament consulted. The Labor Party Executive imposed the embargo. Now  Senator Milliner  stands up here and talks the way he does. 
Let me remind the Senate that the motion to which he refers was the subject of a debate here under General Business. There were about 10 speakers in the debate. An Opposition senator tried to close the debate, but was unsuccessful. Then the  President  interrupted the debate under the sessional order relating to the adjournment of the Senate, the debate was adjourned and no decision was made. The following week the debate was continued. Finally a vote was- taken and the motion was carried by one vote in a General Business session of the Senate.  Senator Milliner  says that the Government should have reacted to that. 
Tonight we are dealing with a motion which was put on the notice paper by  Senator O'Byrne  and which reads: 
That the Senate considers that the Government has shown a contemptuous disregard for Parliament in regard to its lifting the partial ban on the export of merino rams. 
Let us have a look at the situation. The Government announced on 20th March 1969 that a partial lifting of the export embargo was to be implemented on a date to be announced later. The Government acted on the recommendation of the Australian Wool Industry Conference - a decision that had been taken after the Conference had deliberated for some considerable time - and after hearing a report by the experts. The voting of the  Confernce  was 37 to 16. The then Minister for Primary Industry,  Mr Anthony,  made an announcement in the House of Representatives on 20th March 1969. I would like to have what he said on the record. He said: 
The Government has decided that the embargo on the export of merino breeding sheep from Australia, which was imposed some 40 years ago, should be partially relaxed. This decision was taken after considering a recommendation made to the Government on the subject by the Australian Wool Industry Conference. The Wool Industry Conference, as the national body of the Australian wool growers- 
Not just a State body such as the one on whose recommendation the Labor Party made its decision- 
I am working up my argument.  Mr Anthony  said: 
The Wool Industry Conference, as the national body of Australian wool growers, had been asked by the Government some time ago to examine the desirability or otherwise of continuing the embargo from the point of view of the wool industry. 
Who better to decide this matter than the representatives of the wool, growing industry? He continued: 
In seeking the opinion of the Conference the Government, acted at the suggestion df the Australian Agricultural Council. 
That body is made up of the Minister for Primary Industry and the State Ministers for Agriculture. It is a body that should be concerned very vitally and connected very closely with the wool industry.  Mr Anthony  went on to say: 
The decision taken by the Government is for a limited relaxation of the prohibition on the export of merino breeding sheep, subject to several stringent conditions, and it accords with the recommendation of the Wool Industry Conference. The terms of the decision are as follows: 
Export approvals will be issued only for merino rams that have been sold at public auction sales nominated toy the State member associations of the Australian Association of Stud Merino Breeders. 
The prohibition on the export of merino ewes and semen will be continued. 
A prohibition will be .placed on the export of fertilised merino ova. 
Not more than 300 merino rams will be allowed to be exported in the first 12 months from the date on which the relaxation has been made effective. 
Conditions (i) to (iv) will be reviewed annually by the Australian Wool Industry Conference which will recommend to the Government any alterations it may consider desirable. 
The date on which the relaxation will become effective will be announced after the necessary administrative arrangements have . been settled. These arrangements will be worked out by my Department in consultation with the appropriate organisations of the industry.- . 
Following that statement' there was a debate in the House of Representatives on 26th and 27th March 1969 but time was talked out, as we say in parliamentary language. In other words, no vote was taken. On 22nd April 1969, following notice of motion given by  Senator Murphy, Senator Poyser  who led for the Opposition asked, at the commencement of his contribution, for leave to amend the terms' of the motion as they appeared on the notice paper. That motion was in these terms: 
That the Senate is of opinion that the embargo on the export of merinos should not be removed at this time. 
Leave was granted and .  Senator Poyser  amended the motion by adding the following words: and that the embargo should remain in force until a majority of those persons affected' shall decide by referendum or other fair orleans in favour of removing or relaxing the embargo. 
That motion was in pretty "wide terms. Eight senators spoke to it before the  President  announced that the time allowed for the debate had expired, so again no decision was taken. Following, that debate the Minister for Primary -Industry, having regard to what had been said by Opposition senators and Opposition members in the House of Representatives, and having regard to the fact that sections of the industry were claiming that' they did not think that the partial lifting of the ban 
Should be implemented, referred the whole matter back to the Australian Wool Industry Conference. 
There had been a debate on it in the Senate and there had been a debate on it in the House of Representatives. No decision had been taken by either House. The Minister had a recommendation from the Wool Industry Conference for a partial lifting of the ban so he said: '1 will refer it back to the Wool Industry Conference. The Conference has had time to learn what was said in the House of Representatives and in the Senate. Certain sections of the industry are not happy with the decision of the Conference so the Conference can have another look at it.' The Wool Industry Conference replied: 'We will not reconsider our recommendation to the Government.' The executive of the Wool Industry Conference advised the Government on 23rd December 1969 of its decision.. The Minister for Primary Industry, in a statement which I want to put on record, announced on 15th January 1970 that the. partial relaxation of the ban would operate from. 1st February 1970. The statement is in these terms: 
The Minister for Primary Industry,  Mr Anthony,  announced today that - the recommendation by the Australian Wool Industry Conference for the limited relaxation, subject to stringent conditions, of the merino export embargo would now be implemented: 
He said the Government's earlier decision to adopt the Conference's' recommendation had not been put into effect pending the possibility of reconsideration of the matter by the Conference. 
The Government .bad now been advised by the Executive of the Conference that it could see no reason tor the Conference to reconsider the issue. 

 Mr Anthony said the Government's decision on the matter in March last  year had been followed by opposition from a section of woolgrowers. 
So that these growers could register their objections with the Conference and the Conference, if it found good reason to do so, could reconsider the matter, the Government had delayed the implementation of its decision. 

 Mr Anthony said the partial relaxation of the embargo would become effective as from 1st February, 1970. 
Partial relaxation of the ban did not require any legislation or parliamentary sanction. Far from disregarding the Parliament, the Government had informed the Parliament of its intention to lift partially the embargo before implementing its intention. Contrast that with the action of the Labor Party in November 1929 when it was in office. 
I did a bit of research. 
It is right. After the Senate vote had been taken the implementation of the decision to relax the ban was deferred for 9 months to give the industry an opportunity to consider it. The Labor Party, if it felt that it was right, had every opportunity to use the forms of the Parliament to bring forward a motion in either House in an attempt to do something about the matter but it preferred not to do so. It preferred to go behind the door and have the unions come out on strike in an attempt to defer the implementation of the decision. 
What will happen in the future? I said earlier that the organisations were given the opportunity through the Australian Wool Industry Conference to review the matter every 12 months. In my State the wool growers organisation, namely, the wool section of the Farmers Union, has held its annual conference and has stated that in its view the export ban should be re-imposed for the coming 12 months. The matter is to go to the federal organisation and its representatives have to be instructed to make their decision at a meeting of the Australian Wool Industry Conference. That decision was supposed to have been made in January of this year. The Australian Wool Industry Conference asked the then Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  for an extension of that decision, until the meeting to take place on 16th and 17th March, when the Conference will look at the whole  matter  and make a further recommendation to the Government. I believe that the Senate and the other place, and the wool industry itself, have had every opportunity to examine this matter and to make a decision. 
The Labor Party's previous motion sought a referendum of the growers affected. I would like someone to explain to me how a decision would be made as to which section of growers is . affected. Would a vote be taken of fat lamb breeders or the breeders of British breeds of sheep on a decision for the partial lifting of the embargo on the export of merino rams? The motion of the Labor Party included these words: 'or by some other fair means'. I believe that the Government has adopted the alternative fair means by listening to the decision of this chamber and the other place and by listening to the small section of growers who were vitally opposed to the issue, and by then referring the matter back to the Australian Wool Industry Conference, giving that body 9 months to consider whether it should change its opinion. I think it is ludicrous for honourable senators opposite to say that (he Government has overridden the wishes of Parliament and the wool growers of Australia. If the industry decides on 16th March that it wants a total embargo reimposed, it has to say so to the Government. 
I said that when the Government made" the necessary decision it told the industry that in 12 months time it could re-examine the matter and decide whether we should continue with the partial lifting of the embargo or should return to a total embargo. 
The 
Western Australian body wants to reimpose the embargo. In Western Australia about 50 to 80 wool growers are concerned. I was leader of the wool section of the primary producers' organisation in Western Australia for a long time. At every conference, year after year, a controversy arose because half the wool growers wanted the embargo lifted and half the wool growers did not. Breeders of fat lambs and of British sheep attended the annual conference and all had a say on whether the embargo should be imposed or lifted. The fairest way. is to have the voice of the wool industry speak... 
The merino wool growers. . 
But you will not get it by holding a referendum amongst wool growers. 
I would be pleased to. hear, how you would decide who is a merino wool grower and who is not. The Government has a responsibility because about 218 rams have been sold, a figure far below, the quota of 300. Some of the rams sold have not become eligible for export because they have not met health or quarantine requirementsOne or two of them have died and two or three have been injured since the sale. The number of merino rams leaving Australia to go out into the world will not make a terrific difference to ' the wool industry in other countries. I have always believed that Austrafia has become famous for its fine wool because of prevailing climatic conditions. 
I know from experience, that fine wool breeds of sheep bought in Tasmania and taken to Western Australia will not produce the type of wool that they produce on Tasmanian properties.  This is one of the problems of the wool industry. It has produced a division Within the industry. The Government can only continue to seek advice from the industry as to ils wishes and the recognised .mouthpiece of the industry is the Australian Wool Industry Conference. Some people claim that the AWIC is not democratic: We have heard those arguments before. ,tt is just as democratic as many other organisations in Australia. I believe that the Government has acted very fairly in this matter and has carried out the wishes of ' the majority of people connected with the wool industry. 
I well recall the interest in this matter expressed by the honourable senator when the estimates were being examined. I do not have with me details of its contents or advice on whether it has yet been published, but I will make an effort to find out and let the honourable senator know the result. 


 Senator Bull informed me of his interest in this matter and F obtained certain information for him. The price averaging periods vary somewhat from State to State. In New South Wales the period is August to December; in Victoria, August to January; in Queensland, August to November; in South Australia. August to December; in Western Australia, August to February; and in Tasmania, August to December. Wool admitted to the price averaging plan is not acquired. It remains the property of the grower until it is sold but is under the control of the Australian Wool Commission. When wool is received by a selling broker or nominated classing house it is appraised for the purpose of calculating the 60 per cent advance. This advance is paid to the grower within 10 working days of the wool being identified as eligible for payment under the price averaging plan. The second and final payment to growers is collected after the pool is closed on the basis of the pool's average price for each type of wool. This payment represents the difference between the 60 per cent advance payment and the pool average price less handling and selling costs. Ali pools in the first pool period have now been closed. However as some brokers in some States were unable to meet the Australian Wool Commission's schedule for the provision of details for price averaging plan wool, finalising of some pools has been later than planned. Payments were made for the Queensland pool on 22nd January and for the Tasmanian pool on 29th January. The planned pay out dates for the remaining States are: South Australia. 5th March; New South Wales, 16th March; Western Australia. 9th April; and Victoria, 22nd April. 
The Minister representing the Minister for Defence is not present in. the chamber. However, as the representative of the Minister for the Armyin this place, I will draw his attention to the honourable senator's question. 
-I will check with the honourable member mentioned. 
Pur  suant to section 41 of the Meat Industry Act 1964-1969,  I  present the thirty-fifth annual report of the Australian Meat Board for the year ended 30th June 1970, together with financial statements and the report of the Auditor-General on those statements. An interim report of the Board was presented on 15th September 1970. 
-BROCK MA N - Pursuant to section 29 of the Dairy Produce Export Control Act 1924-1966, I present the annual report of the Australian Dairy Produce Board for the year ended 30th June 1970. An interim report of the Board was presented to the Senate on 20th August 1970. 
This mailer was drawn to my attention last in questions asked by honourable senators on both sides of the House. I indicated at that time that the present position of the pear industry in the Goulburn Valley was due to the heavy production of pears last season and. furthermore, that the factories there had had a carry over of something like, I think, 1,500,000 cases. 1 also informed the Senate that the former Minister for Primary Industry had paid a visit to the area and discussed the problem with the producers. On that occasion the Minister said to them that if they put a case to the State Government and the State Government then discussed the matter with the Commonwealth Government he felt sure that the Commonwealth would investigate the matter and give sympathetic consideration to it. After a number of questions had been asked I  said that I would make further investigations to ascertain what action had been taken. This information has not come to hand.  Senator Webster  has now put forward a further suggestion. I think the best way of handling the matter is to put  Senator Webster's  suggestion to the Minister for Primary Industry and ask him to provide the necessary information to the Senate. 
 As far as I know, Victoria is the only State which has not agreed to the proposed plan. I am not aware of the stage which negotiations with Victoria have reached. I understand from the former Minister for Primary Industry that he told State representatives that he would be prepared to go ahead with the Commonwealth Government's reconstruction plans even if some States did not agree to them. I will take up the question with the Minister for Primary Industry and get some information for the honourable senator. 
I received an indication that this question would be asked and I sought certain information. I was advised that the Royal Australian Navy has booms which can be used to contain oil spills. However the use of booms is practical only in certain areas and if the spill is not widespread. The spill at Chowder Bay was due to a weld giving way and the oil shot 100 feet into the air. It was carried by the wind over a large area. This made the use of the boom impractical. The detergent used by the Royal Australian Navy is used throughout the world for dispersing oil and has proved to be the most efficient for this purpose. The staff at Chowder Bay began dispersing the oil spill within 3 minutes. Boats from Garden Island manned by specially trained crews were at work within three-quarters of an hour, lt should be stressed that the spill was clue to a split weld in a pipe and was not in any way due to negligence. 
 I move: 
That the bill be now read a second time. 
The basic purpose of this Bill is to obtain the approval of the Parliament to an agreement made between the Commonwealth Government and the Queensland Government to regulate the production and marketing of sugar within the Commonwealth for a period of 5 years from 1st July 1969. On 25th September 1969 the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton! made a statement in the Parliament that the negotiations between the Commonwealth Government and Queensland Government for a new Sugar Agreement had been satisfactorily concluded and the basis on which a formal agreement could be drafted had been arranged. The Bill now before honourable senators contains the text of the Agreement as subsequently concurred in by the governments, and provisions to implement the Commonwealth's responsibilities under the Agreement. 
The previous Sugar Agreement, the Sugar Agreement 1962 as varied by the Supplemental Sugar Agreement 1967. had been due to expire on 3 1st August 1968, but the two governments agreed, by exchanges of letters, to the extension of its term of operation until 23rd October 1969, the day on which the Sugar Agreement 1969 was made. A significant reason for extending the term of the 1962 Agreement, which originally had been due to expire on 3 1st August 1967, was the desire to continue that Agreement until the outcome of the negotiations for a new International Sugar Agreement was known. As honourable senators are well aware, a new International Sugar Agreement was achieved late in 1968 but only after protracted and difficult negotiations. When the Sugar Agreement 1969 was finally executed its terms provided for its retrospective operation from 1st July 1969. Previously the traditional starting date of sugar agreements had been 1st September but the change in commencing date on this occasion was made for reasons of administration. In the course of his statement to the Parliament which I have referred to above, the Prime Minister outlined the principal features of the new Agreement. In view of the importance of the Agreement I would (Hee to touch briefly on some of those features again. 
The new Agreement, which is the latest in a long line of agreements which go back to the 1920s, is in substance along similar lines to the Agreement it replaces. In this connection I quote verbatim what the Prime Minister said in the Parliament in September: 
Experience in operating the provisions of the existing Agreement, since the last major review in 1962, has indicated that some  changes  can make it more effective in its operation and clearer in its expression. During  the  drafting of the new Agreement the opportunity will be taken to effect these adjustments, which are largely of a technical or drafting nature and will have no bearing on the principles on which the Agreement is based. This, as previously indicated, will follow the traditional lines of previous Agreements. 
The text of the 1969 Agreement as subscribed to subsequently by the 2 governments and as now contained in the Bill before honourable senators is consistent with what the Prime Minister said. For example, under the new Agreement, which will run for 5 years, the State of Queensland, on the one hand, will continue to control the production of raw sugar and will make available, as a matter of priority and at stated maximum wholesale prices, refined sugar and sugar products to meet Australian needs. The Commonwealth of Australia, on the other hand, will continue its embargo on the importation of sugar and of the sugar products, golden syrup and treacle. The maximum domestic wholesale prices for sugar and sugar products as were prescribed in the Supplemental Sugar Agreement 1967 have been continued under the new Agreement. 
Features of previous sugar agreements have been the domestic sugar rebate scheme and the export sugar rebate arrangements. Both of these features will be continued under the new Agreement. The objectives in the case of both rebates include that of assisting, by stabilising fruit prices, growers of fruits used in manufactured products. Manufacturers who purchase fruit at prices not less than [hose declared annually by the Fruit Industry Sugar Concession Committee, established under the Agreement, are entitled to the domestic sugar rebate on the sugar used in conjunction with the fruit. 
Under the export sugar rebate arrangements exporters of products containing sugar obtain their requirements of such sugar at prices related broadly to the Australian import parity price. In short they pay what they would have paid had there been no embargo on the importation of sugar. In the case of domestic sugar rebate the rate has been increased by$5 to$15 per ton from 1st July 1969. This will make the rebate more significant to manufacturers. The higher rate of rebate represents the only major difference between the old and the new agreements. To provide funds to pay the rebate at the higher rate the State of Queensland will increase its contribution from the level under the previous Agreement to a new level of$924,000 a year. 
So far I have been speaking almost entirely about the Sugar Agreement 1969 which comprises the Schedule to the Bill. It is now appropriate to turn to the clauses of the Bill itself. The Bill is similar to previous Acts in that it continues the Commonwealth's obligation, under the Sugar Agreement, to prohibit the importation of sugar, golden syrup and treacle. 
In addition the Bill 'approves' the new Sugar Agreement as did previous Acts in respect of sugar agreements which were  new  at the time. In this connection I would remind honourable senators that it was not possible to bring the new Sugar Agreement before the Parliament when it was made by the 2 governments. Accordingly, and since it was agreed by both the Commonwealth and the State of Queensland that it was in the interests of both producers and consumers that the Agreement should be brought into operation as soon as possible, it was decided that the Agreement should come into full force and effect upon its signing in order that the benefits under it could commence to flow without delay. 
Clause 6 does not have an equivalent in earlier sugar agreement legislation. It is a machinery clause to place beyond doubt the position of interest or other income derived from the investment of moneys which belong to the Fruit Industry Sugar Concession Committee and which are placed to the credit of the Commonwealth Trust Fund. Clause 6 is intended to ensure that the interest or income will flow to the Fruit Industry Sugar Concession Committee Fund to which it rightly belongs. 
The Sugar Agreement Bill 1971 advances further the story of co-operation between the Queensland and Commonwealth governments in the field of sugar, which has fostered the development of the sugar industry and at the same time has ensured full and stable supplies of sugar at reasonable prices for Australian consumers. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator O'Byrne)  adjourned. 
The Minister for Repatriation has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Yes. 
The figures requested are as follows: 

<graphic href="047232197102241_12_1.jpg"></graphic>

I know of this situation because I have had a number of letters from woolgrowers in Western Australia. They have applied for this emergency grant and because of certain circumstances they have found that they have been ineligible for it. The grant was made in the first instance because of the drought conditions prevailing at the time and because of the substantial fall in wool prices which was up to 16 per cent and 17 per cent, and even higher in odd instances. The Government tried to get money out to these people because of this situation. In the first place applications were slow in coming in, but the former Minister for Primary Industry extended the period for the applications and then they came in with a rush. They are being processed now. lt is envisaged that when all applications are processed about §25m will be paid out. The sum of $30m made available was always recognised as the upper limit. I shall take up with the Minister the matter the honourable senator has put before me and obtain some information lor him. 
This year being the jubilee of the Royal Australian Air Force it was decided that something special should be done to commemorate the occasion. After a good deal of study it was decided to hold flying displays throughout most of Australia. On 17th January I made a statement to the effect that there would be flying displays at certain RAAF bases. There will be displays in all States except Tasmania. I think there will be 2 displays in Queensland and Victoria - a major display at one base and a smaller one at another base. All displays will be conducted from RAAF bases as this is the most economical method of conducting them. The Government was concerned about the. resources required for the displays and the flying involved. We must be sure that the displays do not interfere in any way with the Vietnam effort conducted from Richmond. All in all the position was examined most carefully. 1 decided that the flying displays would be conducted out of the RAAF bases in each State and because of that decision Tasmania will be excluded. That is all I can say. 
I think the honourable senator is well aware that a tentative allocation of $ 1 00m has been made to the States, lt has been agreed to, subject to annual review. All States, except Victoria, have accepted the proposition. The basis on which the acceptance has been made is that S75m shall be a loan and the S25m shall be a grant. State instrumentalities will administer the scheme. 1 think that in New South Wales the Rural Reconstruction Board and the Closer Settlement Advisory Board will administer the scheme. I understand that in Queensland a new Rural Reconstruction Board is to be set up. In other States the instrumentalities to be set up have to be agreed to as yet. The Commonwealth Government does not envisage setting up an instrumentality. In my home State, Western Australia, the present State Government- has set up a committee of State officers' to investigate the conditions prevailing in that State and to see in what way the % 1 4.8m, which the State is to receive, will -be- distributed. The type of board that is' set Up in Western Australia will depend on- the report of the committee. I believe that at the time of the meeting with the State Ministers, the Commonwealth envisaged that a person, who applied to a reconstruction board, was refused on the condition that his proposition would not be a -viable one and had to leave his farm, would be given training for a certain occupation that he may desire to follow. 1 think it is envisaged that some assistance should be given to him to house himself and his family, but this will be decided by the various State organisations set up to administer the scheme in the Slates. 
The quota of home consumption wheat is generally fixed at around 60 million bushels per wheat year. 1 notice that last year the quota of home consumption wheat was in the vicinity of 58 million bushels. In other words, it was not very much lower than the recognised quota for previous years. However. I understand from reports of meetings of the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation that some members believe that there is considerable trafficking in wheat between Slates. How one would arrive at an estimate of the quantity involved. I would not know. But I will bring the honourable senator's question to the attention of the Minister for Primary Industry and see what information I can obtain for him. 
I read the article referred to by the honourable senator. Having read it, my mind was taken back to 1947 when the Government of the day thought it knew what was best for the wheat industry. Being a wheat grower myself. I was vitally interested. 
Yes. 1 was made bankrupt by the Labor Government of the day because wheat growers lost tens of thousands of dollars through a transaction between the Australian Labor Government and the New Zealand Government of that time. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - The Minister is replying to a question and he is responsible for his reply. The point of order is not upheld. 
I am stating a fact. I was a wheat grower at the time and I know that I and others like me lost as much as 10s a bushel on a large tonnage of wheat sold to New Zealand at the time. We in this Government do not hold ourselves out as the experts that Ministers in previous governments have pretended to be. We believe that the Government at all times should consult with the industries concerned to determine what their problems are. With the assistance of the Department of Primary Industry, the Bureau of Agricultural Economics and other organisations set up by the Government we seek to iron out their problems. That is the way this Government operates. The doors of the various Ministers are always open for primary producers to talk to them and advise them of their problems. 
This is a vastly different picture from that represented in the newspaper article referred to by  Senator Webster. 
Hardly a day goes by without a request being received from a local authority, an organisation like the Apex Club or an agricultural society for the services of the RAAF band. Quite often such requests are brought to me through a member of Parliament. I understand that the requests are received in such numbers because of the performances of the band and the reputation it has built up over the years. In the instance of which the honourable senator speaks, a request came from the RAAF Base at Butterworth because a presentation was to be held of the Queen's Standard to No. 25 Squadron on that base, lt was thought that the band should be there for the occasion. In view of the heavy commitments which lie ahead of the band over the next month or two because of the Royal Australian Air Force jubilee celebrations I said that the request was not to be agreed to. The band will not be going to Malaysia. 
The Minister for Repatriation has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Eighteen. 
Repatriation Board members are statutory appointees and as suchare not representatives of the Repatriation Department. However, each of the Chairmen of the full-time Boards in New South Wales, Victoria and Queensland is an exofficer of the Department and each of the Chairmen of the 3 part-time Boards in Western Australia, South Australia and Tasmania is employed as a senior departmental officer when not engaged in Board functions. 
The Minister for Repatriation has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
No, the table concerned(Table 1 1) includes details of entitlement claims determined by the Repatriation Boards and a small number determined by the Repatriation Commission. The figures requested in respect  of  such claims determined by the Boards during 1969-70  are: 

<graphic href="047232197102241_12_0.jpg"></graphic>

Yesterday  Senator Devitt  asked for information concerning a booklet which was to be published in regard to abattoirs and the requirements for meat inspection. I promised to obtain information for him. A publication of .118 pages entitled 'Manual of Instruction for Meal Inspection and Meat Handling' has been printed and was distributed at about the end of November last year. 
Yesterday I was asked a question by  Senator Mulvihill  regarding representations by union officials to the Government in regard to the uniform interpretation and application of regulations and instructions concerning meat inspections, and I said that 1 would obtain some information for him. I have been supplied with the following information: The Department of Primary Industry appreciates the problems associated with the uniform interpretation and application of regulations and instructions. Tn an endeavour to obtain more uniformity, the Department has issued a manual of meat inspection procedures. This has been made available to meatworks managements and to meat inspectors. In addition, staff training, including training at supervisory levels, has been intensified as a further means of ensuring that uniformity is maintained. No change has been made in the decisions conveyed in writing to the Meat Employees Union concerning trade union representation on the Australian Meat Board and the Meat Industry Advisory Committee. 
1 am well aware of the situation to which the honourable senator referred because, if 1 recall correctly, on the first day of sitting of this sessional period he raised this matter with me in the form of a question, as other honourable senators have done. The situation of the fresh fruit growers in the Goulburn Valley is very serious from the producers' point of view and the Government has taken certain action in this regard. The honourable senator is well aware that when interest rates rose last year special consideration was given to primary producers. But this is not the matter to which he refers at this- moment. When he asked the question last week I referred the matter to the Department of 
Primary Industry for an answer. 1 have been advised tonight on checking with my Department that the answer to the honourable senator's question is now being processed. Certain matters must be raised with Victoria before an answer can be given to the honourable senator. I hope that tomorrow or on the next day of the sitting I will be in a position to give the honourable senator some information. 
I have seen the report to which the honourable senator has referred and I read it with a great deal of interest. However, I point out to the honourable senator how much worse the Tasmanian economy would have been had the Australian Wool Commission not been operating at that and other sales. 
I Wi. put it my way. I will take the matter up and draw the Minister's attention to the points  Senator O'Byrne  makes in his question. 
This is obviously a question of policy which should be directed to the Minister for Defence and I will do so. 
This question has cropped up from both sides of the House during the past two weeks. 1 have very little information to add to what 1 said previously. I understand that  Mr Cope,  the  president  of the fruitgrowers association in this area, sent a telegram to the Minister for Primary Industry but did not indicate in it the type of assistance he wanted. I understand that in his talks with the State authorities he indicated that the assistance he seeks is in the vicinity of $250,000, as the honourable senator said. However, despite the talks that  Mr Cope  has had with the Victorian Government and the Rural Settlement and Finance Commission no case has yet been presented to the Commonwealth Government by the State Government. The only other information that I. can add is that the Minister for Primary Industry has sent a telegram to  Mr Cope  indicating that, when a case is received by the Commonwealth, sympathetic consideration will be given to it. 
I am not in a position to answer in detail all the points raised by the honourable senator. However, he will recall that yesterday, in answering a question of a similar nature, I pointed out that the Government made this emergency grant available to wool growers because of the drought conditions prevailing throughout Australia and because of the drastic fall in wool prices. The maximum amount to be made available was S30 million. There had to be a cut-off somewhere as regards those who were eligible to participate in the scheme. The Government did not think that those who had income from other sources should be entitled to receive money from this grant. I think that a wool grower had to derive half his income from wool to be eligible to receive money from this grant. 
Yes.  Senator McClelland  has added a little further information. 1 understand that, to the present, about 34,000 claims have been received and that. 29,000 have been assessed. So far, 14,000 claims have been paid in full. The total sum paid out is Si 4.6 million and 7.500 claims have been rejected. I obtained this information at the beginning of the session. I was told then that the Government believed that it could assess the remaining claims within the next 3 weeks. As almost 2 weeks have elapsed, in the next week we should see the final assessment of all claims. 1 will obtain the further information that the honourable senator seeks from the Minister for Primary Industry. 
I will acknowledge that the situation to which the honourable senator has referred is drastic, but I will not acknowledge that nothing is being done by the State or Commonwealth governments. Perhaps things are not happening as fast as the growers would want them to happen, but consideration has to be given to the matter by the State Government. A case has to be built up by the State Government for presentation to the Commonwealth Government if a successful conclusion is to be reached.1  f  think it was last week that I pointed- out' to the Sena.te that the co-operative dr the manufacturers already hold in storage something like li million to 2 million cases of canned pears. 
Because of the honourable senator's concern I will refer his question to the Minister for Primary Industry for his consideration. 
The 
Australian Wool Commission adopted a reserve price policy aimed at moderating the instability of auction prices and, I believe, at protecting the wool grower against having his wool sold at sacrificial prices. I believe that this is what the Commission is doing. Because of the drastic fall in wool prices the Commission at this stage has to bid on a large number of the lots catalogued for each sale, but although it is bidding for these lots it is not buying them all in. In some cases it is ensuring that the wool is not sacrificed at drastically low price. I. believe the operators employed by the Wool Commission are highly skilled. I believe that some buyers would be trying to out-manoeuvre the Commission, and this will always happen al wool sales. 
I will seek an explanation of the matter raised by the honourable senator. The figures that I have here are figures that I sought from the departments at the commencement of this sessional period. I said to the departments that I represent: 'I may be asked questions relating to these matters. Give me the answers.' The information that 1 use in replying to the questions asked was information supplied in response to that request. However, I shall take up the matter now raised with the Department of Primary Industry. 
A permanent complement of men is stationed in the United States in connection with the Fill mission: I do not know the exact number stationed there and I would have to do a bit of research to obtain that information. The mission is made up of scientific and technical men, with one or two officers in charge. A target date was mentioned in the Fraser-Laird agreement. At: the end of this year Australia will be in a position to make a decision on whether we should go on wilh the project. The decision at that time will depend on whether the aircraft then meets the technical and operational requirements of the RAAF. 
I understand that it is not expected that Australia will reach the target it set itself last year for the production of butter. I also understand that the quota applied to dairymen in Victoria was increased because this situation was prevailing. I do not have any detailed information in regard to the other matters raised by the honourable senator. However, I shall bring his question to the notice of the Minister for Primary Industry. 
Today I have made an aircraft available to a Minister in order to exercise his ministerial responsibility and I have made an aircraft available to the Deputy Leader of the Opposition. 
I cannot agree with the figures to which the honourable senator refers because I do not recall having seen them in detail, but I shall certainly draw the attention of the Treasurer to the honourable senator's question. 
-! understand that a number of farmers' organisations in Australia, including the Tasmanian Farmers Federation, have submitted lamb marketing proposals to the Australian Meat Board. At present the Lamb Marketing Investigation Committee of the Australian Meat Board is examining a number of these schemes. This Committee was set up to look at all aspects of lamb marketing both within Australia and overseas. That is all the information that I can give the honourable senator. No doubt the scheme he has in mind is being investigated. 
I cannot give any definite indication to the honourable senator,  1  can give only the general situation. The first advance on the 1968- 69 pool, to which there was a record delivery of approximately 5 1 5 million bushels, was paid. The first pool debt to the Commonwealth must be repaid and sufficient credit funds accumulated before any second advance can be made. I understand that early in March the Australian Wheat Board liquidated, or was supposed to liquidate, its debt on the pool to the Commonwealth. It is expected that sufficient funds to make another payment will be available within a few months. As soon as that situation is reached everything will be done without delay to try to get the money to the growers. 
I understand that the Commonwealth Government has now received an application from the Victorian Government for financial assistance to be given to pear growers in the Goulburn Valley area. I am not aware of the date on which the application was received or of any obstacles preventing immediate action by the Commonwealth. However, I can assure the honourable senator that the Government at present is studying the submission and is pushing ahead as quickly as possible with that study. 
Fill AIRCRAFT 
The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senators question: 
Yes. All the fines and court charges in respect of foreign vessels and fishermen convicted in Queensland for offences against Commonwealth fisheries laws have been paid. The total amount was $6,060.50. 
The 
Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Total area of Rural Holdings ('000 Acres) 

<graphic href="047232197103092_11_0.jpg"></graphic>

No statistics are available. 
The administration of lands, and soil conservation generally, is the responsibility of the State Governments. Legislative provisions in the Stale Acts are backed by research and advisory services aimed to secure wise land use to minimise soil degradation by wind and water erosion. In addition, officers of the Rangelands Research Unit and the Division of Plant Industry of CSIRO are also engaged in research into these matters. 
In May 1970 an Australian Arid Zone Research Conference under the aegis of the Standing Committee on Agriculture was held at Broken Hill. Some150 research workers, representatives of lands administration authorities, and pastoralists, attended and discussed a large number of subjects, including the management of arid lands. My Department, however, has made no pronouncement regardingland use in arid areas. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Yes. All the fines and court charges in respect of foreign vessels and fishermen convicted in Queensland for offences against Commonwealth fisheries laws have been paid. 
The total amount was$6,060,50. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Forty. This is the full capacity of the course. Selections are in course for a second school planned to commence in early June 1971. 
Advertisements calling for qualified Meat Inspectors, Grade1, appeared in the Press during October 1970, December 1970 and January 1971. Forty-six applications were received in response to these advertisements. 
in reply - I welcome the fact that the Senate is not opposing this Bill and I thank the honourable senators who have contributed to the debate. That we are dealing with a very important industry has been evidenced in the contributions which have been made by honourable senators, 3 of whom I note come from Queensland. I noted also the contributions made  by  Senator Lawrie  and  Senator Kennelly  relating to the cost of production within the sugar industry, and  Senator Kennelly's  comparison of the sugar industry with the wheat industry. I remind  Senator Kennelly  that the wheat industry is not as fortunate as is the sugar industry in that it is guaranteed only 60 million bushels for home consumption and 200 million bushels  on  the export market. The rest of the crop is sold at the price the world will pay. 
That is the unfortunate part. The sugar industry has been canvassed widely by the honourable senators who have taken part in the debate and I  do  not propose to cover the ground they have traversed. However, I should like to say for the record that this Bill has 3 main purposes. The first purpose is to present to the Parliament the text of the Sugar Agreement 1969 concluded on 23rd October 1969 between the Commonwealth of Australia and the State of Queensland. Under the terms of the Bill the Sugar Agreement 1969 is approved by the Parliament. However, such approval is largely presentational in nature since the Sugar Agreement 1969 is expressed to take effect upon execution rather than, as formerly, on receiving parliamentary ratification. This changed procedure was decided upon at the time in the light of the circumstances when the 1969 Agreement was made. 
The second purpose of the Bill is to give effect to the obligation of the Commonwealth contained in clause 13 of the Agreement to continue the embargo on the importation into Australia of sugar, golden syrup and treacle. The Bill's third purpose is to give specific authority, as contemplated under section 62b (3.) of the Audit Act, for income earned on investments from the Fruit Industry Sugar Concession Committee Fund to be paid to the credit of the Fund. The Fruit Industry Sugar Concession Committee Fund moneys were channelled in August 1966 into a head of the Commonwealth Trust Fund. This procedure has not been availed of previously by the Committee so that there was no necessity for a similar provision in the Sugar Agreement Act of 1962. 
Those are the 3 main purposes of the Bill. I believe that it only remains for me to reply to  Senator Milliner  who asked why it has taken so long to introduce this measure into the Parliament. Although this Bill has been with me in my office for some time now, I am quite sure that the delay in its introduction has been due only to the pressure of other parliamentary business. However, I would like to point out to  Senator Milliner  that the important thing is that this delay has not hindered in any way the operation of the new Sugar Agreement. It came into full force and effect upon its signing in October 1969. A further point is that the delay has not hindered the operation of the embargo which was imposed by the Sugar Agreement Act of 1962 on the importation of sugar. It will continue until the Parliament itself has dealt with this Bill. Therefore, although there has been a delay in the introduction of the Bill the embargo has continued and it will not cease until the Parliament says otherwise. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
It is a fact that the Government has announced that an apple and pear scheme will be introduced shortly. It has -been negotiated between the leaders of the industry and the Government. Honourable .senators opposite are interjecting. 
I would hope the honourable senator will get it very shortly. I will make inquiries for him. 
I knew we were having trouble with our fish and oysters in Western Australia but I did not know there was trouble in 'Botany Bay. 1 shall make some inquiries. 
The short answer to the honourable senator's question is no. The honourable senator may recall that one of the objectives of the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation when it put forward its delivery quota proposals in 1969 was to avoid the curtailment of production of types of wheat which could be readily sold. This was the principle behind the proposals for -supplementary quotas for prime hard wheat. These supplementary quotas may not be filled by the delivery of wheat of other descriptions. The figures which I have here in regard to New South Wales show that in the 2 seasons in which quotas have been effective deliveries of prime hard wheat have not been sufficient to fill the  quotas. In the 1969-70 season when the quota was 7 million bushels the delivery was 5.8 million bushels. In the season just gone by - that is 1970-71  -  the quota of prime hard wheat was 12 million bushels of which 11.3 million bushels were delivered. 
As usual,  Senator Keeffe  has his facts very mixed up. 1 am not aware of what the Minister for External Territories said. I am aware that the Australian Wheat Board does not sell only inferior wheat to China. 
That interjection was not funny either. The Australian Wheat Board did sell some wheat which was not in the f.a.q. sample to China. China sought that wheat because it had use for it. So the Australian Wheat Board made a contract. If  Senator Keeffe  has any objection to that, let him stand up and air that objection. 
Let me say at the outset that in the Senate I have answered some questions on the same matter 14 times. All I can say to  Senator Webster  is that there is an apple and pear stabilisation scheme and that it will have the same effect on the apple and pear growers in the Goulburn Valley as it will on growers throughout Australia. At a meeting in Melbourne on 3rd February last the leaders of the apple and pear industry together with growers from the Northern Victoria Fruitgrowers Association met representatives of the Government and discussed this matter. There was some cause for worry so far as the northern growers were concerned but the Government has given an assurance on this point. 1 appreciate that the honourable senator is expressing his concern on behalf of the Northern Victoria Fruitgrowers Association. 
I do not have all the details. All I can say at this time is that the Australian Wool Commission has announced that it will not sell any of the wool it has bought except when no more of that particular wool is available for the season and except when the buyers negotiate for a particular type of wool that is in short quantity. 1 will seek the rest of the information for the honourable senator and let him have it as soon as possible. 
I saw the report of this incident and I have sought some information on it. I do not appear to have thai information yet, but I shall let the honourable senator have it tomorrow, when perhaps he could ask his question again. 
I am aware of the meeting. I have a record of each motion that it passed. The honourable member for Newcastle and the honourable member for Lyne have visited me and have discussed with me representations made to them. At one stage I hoped to see the women very shortly, but I have had to put that off because of the sittings of the Parliament. Perhaps I will be meeting them at a later date. 1 draw the honourable senator's attention to the fact that many of the requests that the women have made are at present being studied by the Kerr committee set up by the Government to investigate the pay and conditions of the three Services, lt would be wrong for me to comment at a time when a top level committee is investigating the matter. 
If my memory serves me correctly, I asked the honourable senator to put his question on the notice paper and the Minister for Primary Industry supplied the answer; I myself did not give the answer so I did not recall its contents when I replied to  Senator Lawrie.  Now that the honourable senator has drawn the facts to my attention I do recall them. He asked me a question. I asked that it be put on notice. It was answered at a later date. 
The honourable senator has been completely misinformed. He has misunderstood what he has vend. An invitation was sent to air forces in various countries including Canada, the United Kingdom, New Zealand and the United States to send representatives to the 50th anniversary celebrations of the Royal Australian Air Force. The Americans replied that they would like to send 4 FI IIA aircraft. They are doing so. The aircraft will be flying to Australia, wilt land at Amberley and refuel, and then will fly to Richmond where they wilt be on display. Following that they will then fly to Fairbairn where they will again be on display. These are American F111A aircraft, they are in American squadrons and they are being flown by American pilots. What that has to do with Australian pilots or Australia's FI 1 1C aircraft, 1 would not know. 
The Minister for the Navy has. provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
There is no restriction on the number of distributing agencies for marine charts which may operate in any designated area. 
On 17th February last  Senator Wriedt  asked me the following question without notice: 
Can  the  Minister for  Air  advise  the  Senate  of  the charges on the airline operator who recently lifted merino rams from a Royal Australian  Air  Force base?  How  do these charges compare  with  the charges made for the use of  civil  airports  in  Australia? 
I  am now able to answer the honourable senators question. The answer is as follows: 
In  accordance  with  the provisions ot  the Air 
Navigation Charges Act  1952-70,  under which  Act  charges arc payable in accordance  with  the schedules of that  Act  in respect of  the  use by aircraft  of  aerodromes, routes, airway facilities, meteorological services  and  search  and  rescue services maintained, operated or provided by the Commonwealth, an amount of  $932.80  for the period calculated under  the  Third Schedule of the  Act  was collected from the captain  prior  to the departure  of the  aircraft from Australia. This charge is  (he same  us  if the  aircraft  had  used civilian  airports in  Australia. 
I cannot inform the Parliament and I will not be in a position to inform the Parliament of that amount until the repairs to the Phantom are completed. 
I have not received a request from the Minister for Defence for a VIP flight to take him to South Vietnam. I have one or two requests from him for internal flights on ministerial duties. 
It is true that at this stage China has not renewed the contract for wheat purchases that it has made normally about this time over many years past. However, I still believe that China will come to Australia looking for wheat. China knows, as do other nations, that there is a big surplus of wheat in the world. It is quite obvious that the Chinese will be looking for the best possible market situation that they can obtain. 
I point out to the honourable senator that China has carried out wheat negotiations with and made wheat purchases from Canada for many years past. The recent sale by Canada is nothing above the normal. I still hope that China will come into the market. 
 Yesterday in answer to a question about quotas for hard wheats asked by  Senator Sim  I said that guidelines had been set by the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation in March 1969 and that they indicated that delivery quotas should not curtail the production of wheat which is readily saleable. The honourable senator, being a good South Australian- 

Would you like me to say: 'Being a good South Australian representative in this place'? The honourable senator made the point that South Australia also grows hard wheat, and then he said that he would be asking me a series of questions. So I sought some information for him. I am advised that the Federation recommended delivery quotas for each State in March 1969, in January 1970 and in January 1971, and that these recommendations subsequently were accepted by the State and Commonwealth governments. The recommendations included supplementary quotas for prime hard wheats produced in New South Wales and Queensland and, for the 1971-72 season, Durum wheat produced in New South Wales. 
In arriving at its quota proposals the Federation, on which grower organisations in each mainland State are represented, is understood to have taken into account all relevant factors including stocks and prospective outlets for various types and descriptions of wheat. It can be expected that the Federation will follow what is now established practice and will meet early in 1972 and will draw up quota proposals for the following season in the light of circumstances encountered this year and future sales prospects as they then appear. The allocation of quotas within a State is a matter for the State authorities. Whether the difficulties of seasonal conditions or the spasmodic production results in a region of a State are grounds for special consideration is a matter for the State concerned, having regard no doubt to any views which may be expressed by the industry. 
Earlier in the sessional period I answered a question asked by  Senator Bull  about the closing dates of the price averaging plan.  Senator Young  has now asked me to give a more detailed answer. I have the following information for him: Price averaging periods vary somewhat from State to State. In the first pool period closing dates were: New South Wales, 10th December 1970; Victoria, 28th January 1971; Queensland, 17th November 1970; South Australia, 3rd December 1970; Western Australia, 4th February 1971; and Tasmania, 3rd December 1970. When wool is received by a selling broker or nominated classing house it is appraised for the purpose of calculating the 60 per cent advance. This advance is paid to the grower within 10 working days of the wool being identified as eligible for admission to the price averaging plan. The second and final payment to growers is calculated after the pool has closed on the basis of the pool average price for each particular type of wool. This payment represents the difference between the 60 per cent advance payment and the pool average price, less handling and selling costs. 
All pools in the first pool period have now closed. However, as some brokers in some States were unable to meet the Australian Wool Industry Commission's schedule for the provision of details of price averaging plan wool, finalisation of some pools has been later than planned. Final payments for the following pools were made: Queensland, 22nd January; Tasmania, 29th January; South Australia, 5th March; and New South Wales, 16th March. The planned payout dates for the remaining States are: Western Australia, 22nd April, and Victoria, 27th April. The period which elapsed between the closing date of the first pool period and the payout date for the period ranged from 8 to 13 weeks or an average of 11 weeks. Delays in payment for the first pools have been due, in the main, to teething problems experienced by brokers in the operation of the averaging scheme. The experience gained by the brokers will enable future pools to be settled more promptly. Recently the Commission had discussions with brokers in order to achieve this end. 
Last week or the week before I answered a question from  Senator Lillico  on this matter. At that time I indicated that the Australian Meat Board's marketing investigation committee was looking at a number of submissions that had been made to it. I do not know what further information is available, but I shall seek it for the honourable senator. 
As the honourable senator indicated in his question, the Minister for the Army, in company with him, visited this area and inspected it to see what could be done. I have now been asked by the Minister to convey the following information to him: From the Army point of view there has been no change in the situation as it existed last spring. At that time the position was that the Prime Minister was awaiting a reply from the Premier to an invitation made in July 1970 'to provide details of the requirements and the development proposed by the Sydney Cricket and Sports Ground Trust'. The Prime Minister gave an undertaking that following receipt of such advice arrangements would be made for 'a careful review to be made by the appropriate Commonwealth authorities so that' advice might be given of what can be done after taking into account the essential needs of the Army'. This invitation was acknowledged by the Premier who advised that when in a position to do so he would provide 'details of the requirements and the development proposed by the Sydney Cricket and Sports Ground Trust'. 
I saw the statement by the Minister for Agriculture in Western Australia in regard to the introduction of legislation into this Parliament. I understand that at the present time a draft agreement beween the Commonwealth and the State is currently under consideration by the relevant Government Department. As soon as the terms of the agreement have been accepted by the Commonwealth and State governments legislation will be introduced into the Commonwealth Parliament to provide authority for the execution of the agreement and for the financial grants to the States. The honourable senator asked whether funds are available to the States. The answer is yes. In answers to  Senator O'Byrne's  questions on two occasions last year I made the point that funds were already available to most States under the Commonwealth Loan (Fanners Debt Adjustment) Act of 1935. I understand that in Western Australia the sum of $430,000 is available to that State. 
It has always been the intention of the Commonwealth Government that these unexpended balances should be used where possible before additional funds available under the rural reconstruction scheme are made available by the Commonwealth. I understand from the Minister for Primary Industry that if there is any unforeseen delay in the passage of this legislation through this Parliament he will have discussions with the Treasurer to see whether there is a possibility of providing advances to the States on the signing of the agreement. 
We are having a look at requirements and determining whether it is necessary for the RAAF to buy a tanker. I understand that the particular type of tanker we are looking at costs about $10m. Other than what I have said, I cannot answer the honourable senator's question off the cuff. If he likes to put his question on the notice paper I will have a look -at it. 
As this matter is the subject of a court inquiry  I  do not think the information is available at present. When the court has concluded its inquiry and the report has been furnished to me  I  hope to be able to answer the honourable senator's question. 
The Minister for the Army has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Four Army DUKWs (wheeled amphibian  2½  ton) with operators were made available to the Victorian State Government for Flood relief work in the Sale area from 30th January 1971 to 1st February 1971. Two DUKWs were maintained in an operational condition throughout this period. Inquiries were made on behalf of the Victorian State Government on 6th February 1971 as to the availability of DUKWs for relief work in the Orbost area. After some discussion it was agreed that flood waters would be too swift at that time for the safe operation of DUKWs for at least another 36 hours. It was also agreed that a reassessment would be made of the situation at Orbost on 8th February 1971 and that if the DUKWs were still required the State Government would resubmit its request to Headquarters Southern Command. No further request was received. 
The DUKW is an ageing vehicle of World War II vintage which is now costly to run and requires frequent maintenance. It is being replaced by the lighter, amphibious, resupply, cargo (LARC 5) which is basically a flush-decked boat with wheels designed primarily as a cargo carrier. It is neither safe nor suitable for the carnage of passengers, its land capability is limited and it is not considered suitable for flood relief work. 
Yesterday,  Senator Willesee  asked me as Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry: 
Is the prawn trawler 'Mutiara I' being held under orders by fisheries officers in Darwin? Is this the same trawler which was seized by fisheries officers for three days in Karumba in February without any reason being stated? Will the Minister now state the reasons for these two seizures? 
I can now inform the honourable senator that the prawn trawler 'Mutiara I' is not being held by fisheries officers in Darwin. This vessel was built in Western Australia last year, and it was subsequently reported to the Department of Primary Industry and in the Press that it was being handed over to an Indonesian naval co-operative to operate as an Australian/Indonesian joint venture from Indonesia. As a result of this, on its arrival in Karumba, it was regarded as a foreign fishing vessel, and the skipper was requested to remain in charge of the vessel in port whilst an investigation was made into its ownership. This revealed that the ownership had not, in fact, been transferred to the Indonesian co-operative. When the Department of Primary Industry was informed that the Australian owners were proceedingto license the vessel under the Fisheries Act. the restraint order was lifted. 
On arrival in Darwin, the local fisheries officers, in accordance with the Fisheries Act, required the skipper to produce evidence that the vessel was licensed. The person in charge of the boat was unable to  produce such a licence, and inquiries were initiated. When evidence that a licence had been issued in Fremantle was received, the skipper was advised to ensure that the Australian members of the crew were currently licensed. At no time was the vessel seized'. On both occasions, the officer responsible was exercising his power under the Fisheries Act to require a person in charge of a fishing boat to remain at a specified place while investigations concerning suspected offences against the Act were made. 
by leave - With the concurrence of honourable senators  i  incorporate in Hansard the following statement. 
When the criteria for devaluation compensation to rural industries were first established it was decided that it would  not  be unreasonable in the short run to attribute to devaluation the whole of (he fall  in  export returns where it appeared that devaluation hail been an important factor  and  that the losses were demonstrable  and  unavoidable. The payment of compensation has been based on the difference between returns in Australian currency predevaluation  and  post-devaluation,  with  payments limited in most cases to 15 per  cent  of pre-devaluation values. Tt has become increasingly difficult to differentiate between the effects of other forces in the market and the residual of Sterling devaluation. Compensation cannot, of course, be continued indefinitely. 
The Government has now decided that devaluation compensation will be continued for 1971, but that payments will then be terminated. The Government considers that where losses can still be demonstrated on exports in 1971 it would be undesirable to conclude compensation payments without some warning to the industries  concerned.  The period of grace now proposed will allow for possible adjustments to be made. For some commodities action has been taken already to replace devaluation compensation with other measures. For instance, in the case of dairy products, in June 1970 the Government made a special grant, for distribution as a bounty, of $15.9m on J970-71 butter and cheese production and $3.4m on exports from the 1970-71 production of skim milk powder, casein and other non-fat products. These grants ruled out any devaluation assistance in 1970-71 for these products. As condenserv milk products were not covered by these grants, devaluation compensation will be paid on exports of these products from 1970-71 production. 
In regard to apples and pears, the Government's decision to establish a stabilisation scheme for these fruits will' obviate any need for payment of devaluation compensation for 1971. With regard to sugar, devaluation compensation will be paid on sales from the 1971 season's production made to the United Kingdom as negotiated price sugar under the Commonwealth Sugar Agreement. No compensation will be payable on exports of sugar to the United Kingdom and to New Zealand 'free' market or on the preference element of such exports from 1971 season's production unless these 'free' market returns as a whole are below pre-devaluation levels. 
So far as fruits are concerned payments will be made for devaluation losses on exports of canned fruits, including canned pineapple products, canned solid pack apples and fresh grapes exported and sold up to 3 1st December 1971. The rates of compensation will, as usual, be determined in the light of marketing experience during the year. Payments will be made on exports of dried vine  fruits  and fresh citrus fruit exported and sold in 1971. Such payments will be extended to any of these fruits from the 1971 season's production exported and sold in 1972. Compensation for exports of dried vine fruits will be subject to any alternative arrangements which may be made if a stabilisation plan for the industry were adopted for the 1971 season. In addition, compensation will be paid on exports of currants exported from Western Australia to the United Kingdom in 1968. 
Devaluation compensation will be paid, if necessary, on exports of shell eggs and egg pulp to the United Kingdom and on egg pulp to Japan from 1970-71 production. Similarly compensation payments will be made, if necessary, on exports of honey to the United Kingdom and other devalued markets in 1971 on the basts of approved pre-devaluation values and the c.i.f. price of each sale. However, overseas prices for eggs and honey have risen to the point where exporter returns are above predevaluation levels. Accordingly, it does not appear likely that devaluation compensation will prove necessary in these cases. 
On present indications no devaluation compensation will be payable, as such, on dairy products except condensery milk products, on honey, on eggs or, because of the stabilisation scheme, on apples and pears. Of the remaining products substantial compensation will be payable for sugar, dried vine fruits and condensery products and may be involved for canned pears. Small amounts only will be required for canned pineapple products, canned apples, fresh citrus and grapes. The total amount of compensation which may be payable for 1971 exports must be very tentative at this stage, but may be' between S7m and 39m. The total of compensation payments to all rural industries now amounts to over $100m. 
Senate adjourned at 9.20 p.m. till Tuesday, 30 March at 3 p.m. 
I have not any information that I can give to the honourable senator other than to say that the Department of Primary Industry is watching the situation very closely. However. I will direct the Minister's attention to the question and see what information I can obtain for the honourable senator. 
I am aware of the position about which the honourable senator spoke, but I have not the full details of what has taken place. I will draw the matter to the attention of the Minister for Primary Industry and see what information I can obtain for the honourable senator. 
 I think I should seek an answer from the Minister for Repatriation. I suggest that the honourable senator should put the. question on notice. 
Many suggestions are put forward from time to time as to what can be done with wheat. Some of them have a lot of substance while others are just catchcrys. One recent suggestion of which I am thinking is that the surplus production of wheat should be turned into grain alcohol. We all know that grain alcohol can be made from wheat but whether it is an economic proposition is another thing.  Senator Hannan  has suggested that this matter of making bricks might be looked into. I put the suggestion before the Senate that in all these matters a quantity of wheat must be available for a particular project,- year in and year out, irrespective of the other markets around the world and home consumption. Another matter which I think should be taken into consideration is the price which has to be paid for wheat. The farmer must receive a reasonable cost of production for his grain. Whether this is an economic proposition or not 1 do not know but I shall make inquiries for the honourable senator and Jet him have what information I can obtain. 
I well recall questions asked by the honourable senator with regard to pears. At the time I told him that a case was being prepared by the industry to forward to the State Government and that the State Government was preparing a case to forward to the Commonwealth. I think on one occasion I went so far as to say that the Commonwealth had received a case for financial assistance from the State. Other than that I have no information. However, I shall check for the honourable senator and if I can obtain some further information I shall give it to him. 
I think that last week in answer to a question I said that at the invitation of the Royal Australian Air Force the United States Air Force had agreed to be represented at the 50th anniversary celebrations of the RAAF. The United States Air Force asked whether it could send 4 F111 A aircraft to the celebrations. It said that the aircraft would be here for only a short period. The period during which they will be here covers the Richmond air display and the air display at Fairbairn. The F111 aircraft will be at those 2 displays. The West Australian air display was held last Sunday so the aircraft will not go there. The remaining displays will be held after the visit of the aircraft. 
The Minister for Primary Industry, has provided the following answerto the honourable senator's question: 
Officers of my Department have been in contact with the various Commonwealth and State authorities concerned with land administration and with the Commonwealth Bureau of Census and Statistics. It was ascertained that no precise statistics of land owned or leased by foreign companies or investors are kept by these authorities, either at the Commonwealth or the State level. Estimates of the extent to which foreign companies lease or own land in Australia would be extremely difficult to make and would probably be misleading, in part at least, because of the difficulty of defining 'foreign companies or investors'. I regret, therefore, that I am unable to provide the information that the honourable senator seeks. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
I have had my Department seek information from the New South Wales Department of Agriculture as a matter of this kind comes primarily within the jurisdiction of the State authorities. I am informed that the outbreak of beetle borers in banana plantations in the Brunswick District on the north coast of New South Wales is believedto be due to the development of a strain of borers resistantto the recommended insecticides, aldrin and dieldrin. In all other districts those materials are giving effective control at the recommended rates of application, which are quite economical. The resistant strain is not controlled by any rate of application of these chemicals. Entomologists of the New South Wales Department of Agriculture recommend that where resistant strains occur, treatment with aldrin and dieldrin should be discontinued, and that control should be maintained through sanitation measures, that is, through the clearing of plantations of all old and fallen plant material capable of harbouring the borer. 1 am informed that research is continuing in an endeavour to find alternative means of chemical control. 
It is apparent from the answer to (1), that a reduction in the cost of dieldrin would not meet the problem in the Brunswick district. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
and (2) For commercial reasons it is the policy of the Australian Wool Commission not to release information on the matters raised by the honourable senator. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Yes. 
More than 40.000 applications have been received. These included duplicates and cases where more than one member of a family unit submitted separate applications. After matching  and consolidation the number of applications requiring a determination was some 34,000. 
The number of approvals and rejections will not be known until all applications have been processed. To date 15,087 applicants have received grants and 10,936 were not eligible foi a payment. 
As of 26 February 7,023 applicants had received the maximum grant of $1,500 and 3,064 grants of a lesser amount had been made. 
Statistics have not been kept of the number of cases where the granting of assistance, or the amount of assistance paid, has depended on special circumstances. 
The total amount paid out up to 26th February 1971 was 515,560,720. While it is not possible yet to assess the total final expenditure, it would appear from these figures that the amount will be within the upper limit of $30 million set in the Budget for repayment of grants under the Scheme. 
Pursuant to Section 30 of the Honey Industry 
Act 1962-1966 I present the 7th annual report of the Australian Honey Board for the year ended 30th June 1970, together with financial statements and the AuditorGeneral's report on those statements. The interim report of the Board was presented to the Senate on 1st September 1970. 
The Minister for the Army has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
No automatic weapons have recently been reported stolen from camps in the Ingleburn area and nothing is known of the alleged recovery of fourteen such weapons from a Hungarian gymnasium proprietor. 
Serial numbers of all weapons issued and received are recorded by units on the relevant copies of the indent vouchers and unit weapons registers. Any  loss  of weapons in transit would be immediately evident to the unit on whose charge the weapons were at that time. 
In the absence of more specific details and dates no further information can be provided. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
In the United Kingdom and European markets normal methods of disposal of apples and pears are by forward sale, sale afloat, free consignment, or on consignment against a guaranteed advance from an importer. In Asian markets, only forward sales are made. 
Contractual arrangements between exporters and growers are for negotiation between the parties and would vary from State to State according to differences in established practices. For example, in a State where traditionally a high proportion of fruit is sold forward, a common arrangement would be for the exporter to purchase fruit outright from the grower who would then have no further interest in its disposal. Other contracts might be for a seasonal run of varieties for which the exporter might arrange a guaranteed advance from an importer client. 
Contractual arrangements between exporters and importers are also for negotiation between the parties, subject to any requirements that might be imposed by the Australian Apple and Pear Board. 
Approximately 60 per cent of apples and pears are forwarded on consignment or against a guaranteed advance to the United Kingdom and European markets. In Asian markets all shipments are sold forward under contract. 
Forward sale contracts for the United Kingdom and Europe differ from Asian contracts to the extent that the former would often cover a range of varieties of broader specifications probably shipped on more than one vessel. 
Minimum prices for apples and pears sold forward to all markets are set by the Australian Apple and Pear Board and are published widely to the industry. There is no specific obligation on exporters to divulge actual prices obtained and this would be entirely a matter for the individual grower and exporter under a private enterprise system of trading. 
With the element of competition between exporters it is believed that returns to growers, in relation to prices received by exporters, are generally reasonable. 
The industry's proposalsto the Government in relation to the stabilisation plan laid emphasis on the retention of the existing private enterprise system of export marketing as regulated by the Australian Apple and Pear Board. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Officers of my Department appreciate the problems associated with the uniform interpretation and application of regulations and instructions. In an endeavour to ensure a better understanding by industry of required standards and to achieve more complete uniformity of inspection procedures, my Department has prepared a comprehensive Manual of Meat Inspection Procedures. Copies of this manual have been made available to meatworks managements and to departmental veterinary officers and meat inspectors. In addition, staff training, particularly training at supervisory levels, has been intensified as a further means of ensuring that uniformity of inspection procedures is maintained. 
No change has been made in the decisions conveyed in writing to the Meat Employees' Union concerning Trade Union representation on The Australian Meat Board and the Meat Industry Advisory Committee. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The figures released by the Deputy Commonwealth Statistician and Government Statist in South Australia on 12th February1971 show that wholesale sales of wine in South. Australia for the 
December Quarter 1970 totalled 1,244.300 gallons. This showed an increase of 11,700 gallons over the September Quarter 1970 of 1,232,600 gallons. Sales for the September Quarter 1969 and December Quarter 1969 were 1,150,000 gallons and 1,236,90 gallons respectively. 
The figures given in answrr to question1 would indicate that there has been no recession in total sales in South Australia. 
I understand that a claim has now been forwarded through the Victorian Government to the Federal Government for financial assistance to pear growers in the Goulburn Valley. At this stage the Commonwealth Government is studying the submission by the Victorian Government and an endeavour is being made to arrive at a decision as soon as possible. I will check for further information and let the honourable senator have it if it is available. 
The honourable senator approached me on this matter on 2 occasions. I remind him, first of all, that it is proposed to hold flying displays at various airports - namely. Richmond. Laverton, Fairbairn, Pearce, Townsville, Amberley and Edinburgh - during the Air Force jubilee celebrations. These displays will show most types of aircraft within the RAAF inventory, and there also will be aircraft from the air forces of other countries, including Fill As from the United States of America. 
For as long as I have been Minister for Air, we have been preparing for these displays, and I understand that preparations were going on before 1 came into this office. So, when the honourable senator asked me whether I could put the Edinburgh display forward or back to another date, I came up against a problem in that these aircraft were committed for displays on days following the Edinburgh display. I found that I could not change that day. The honourable senator then suggested that perhaps we could stage the display at Edinburgh at an earlier hour of the day and finish in time for people to attend the Barossa Valley wine festival afterwards. [ have had a look at this suggestion. I find that the programmes setting out the times of the display have already been printed and in some cases have been distributed. So, I find this suggestion impractical, too. I regret it, but that is how the matter has proceeded. We have planned for these jubilee displays for a long while. So, I cannot do anything about the display at Edinburgh. 
From time to time, from both sides of the Senate, I think questions have been asked on this matter. I have not all the details on it at the present time. But I will take this matter up with the Minister for Primary Industry and obtain an answer for the honourable senator. 
The Government has been aware of the total number of Fill aircraft likely to be produced. Following the visit of the then Minister for Defence,  Mr Malcolm  Fraser, to America and discussions between the 
Australian and United States Governments, agreement was reached whereby the Australian Government could defer the taking of a decision on acceptance of the aircraft until later this year. That agreement was reached on the basis of certain technical and operational requirements being met by the United States. The arrangement still holds. A number of those requirements, including certain fatigue and other tests, have not been met. In addition, the aircraft have not been released in the United States to fly at 100 per cent of their design manoeuvre envelope. That restriction applies also to the 4 aircraft which will be coming here next week. Because of the conditions that I have mentioned it is expected that the Australian Government will not be in a position to make a decision on acceptance until at least the end of this year. 
Recently I tabled in the Senate the flight procedures relating to VIP aircraft. 
-I was going to say that. This was done at the request of the Leader of the Opposition. I tabled details of all flights from the time that the debate arose previously on VIP flights until a certain period. I am willing to look into the matter and table details of the flights from that period up to 28th February. 
I will do that if I am able to do so. 
I said I would table all details. 
The Minister for the Army has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Within the Royal Australian Army Provost Corps there are a number of personnel who receive special training in criminal investigations. These men form a Special Investigations Branch (SIB). This corresponds with the United States Army criminal 'investigation division (CID) which is a branch of the United States Military Police. In each Australian Military Police unit, there is a Special Investigation Section (SIS) which operates under the control of the officer commanding the Military Police unit and carries out criminal investigations. 
There is a Special Investigation Section within the Australian Provost Unit in Vietnam which carries out criminal investigation within the Australian force. It does maintain liaison with its United States counterpart in South Vietnam. The Australian SIS and the United States CID maintain close liaison and regularly exchange information. In addition certain of the scientific investigation facilities of the United States CID are made available to the Australian Military Police Unit. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to provide for the establishment and operation of a joint Commonwealth/ industry research scheme for the Australian dried fruit industry. Funds will be raised by means of a levy on dried fruits and the Commonwealth will provide matching contributions on a dollar for dollar basis to meet expenditure on approved research projects. It is the established policy of the Government to encourage and foster the development of schemes of this nature in which the industry concerned will contribute funds for research into problems affecting the industry. The dried fruits industry will be the eighth primary industry to finance research into its own problems. Similar schemes are already operating successfully for the wool, wheat, meat, dairy products, tobacco, eggs and chicken meat industries. 
Dried fruit production is of considerable economic importance to the rural communities where these fruits are grown and exports of dried fruits contribute significantly to our export earnings. In common with other primary industries, dried druit producers are faced with rising costs, increasing competition in world markets and more stringent standards imposed by importing countries. The industry has recognised that additional research into problems associated with the production, processing and packaging of dried fruits is needed to enable the industry to face these challenges and to maintain stability. In particular the industry has stressed the need for investigations on the processing side. The Australian Dried Fruits Association requested the Government to introduce a legislative research scheme for dried fruits. The Australian Dried Fruits Association is representative of all sectors of the dried fruits industry in New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia and Western Australia. It is proposed that the research scheme will embrace dried vine fruits - currants, sultanas and raisins - and dried tree fruits, namely, apricots, pears, peaches, nectarines and prunes. There is a small production of dried apples in Tasmania but it is not proposed to incorporate dried apples in the scheme at this juncture. The proposed research scheme will not apply to the wine and fresh grapes section of the vine fruits industry although, of course, research or production aspects could be of benefit to those sections of the industry. 
The Government is willing to participate with the dried fruits industry in a jointly financed research scheme. The appropriate State Ministers have been informed about the proposal and have endorsed it. The Bill will establish a Dried Fruits Research Trust Account and provides for the appointed of a Dried Fruits Research Committee which will make recommendations concerning expenditure from the Account. The Bill sets out the purposes for which expenditure from the Account may be approved. For a number of years the Commonwealth has joined with the industry in financing individual dried fruits research projects on an ad hoc basis. It is proposed that these research projects be brought within the ambit of the new legislative scheme. The Australian Dried Fruits Association and the Australian Dried Fruits Control Board have on hand funds derived from the industry to finance these projects. It is proposed that when these funds are paid into the Dried Fruits 
Research Trust Account they will be eligible for matching Commonwealth subventions when expended on approved research. The funds provided by the industry and the Commonwealth will be used only for additional research. Excellent research work is already being undertaken by State Departments of Agriculture and the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation and it is not the intention to relieve the States or the CSIRO from their responsibilities to continue their normal investigational activities into the problems of the dried fruit industry. 
The Research Committee will comprise 4 representatives of the Australian Dried Fruits Association, 2 representatives of packers of dried fruits, 3 representatives of the Australian Agricultural Council and one representative each of CSIRO and the Department of Primary Industry. This membership will constitute a majority of industry representatives. This was requested by the industry. It is consistent with the situation in most of the other legislative research committees. Because the Committee will be responsible for recommending research concerning a wide range of dried fruits it is essential that the industry members of the Committee be chosen with care to ensure adequate representation of all sections of the industry. The Australian Dried Fruits Association will exercise this care in nominating its 4 representatives for appointment to the Committee. There is no single organisation of packers of dried fruits but all except 3 or 4 are closely associated with the Australian Dried Fruits Association. The ADFA will arrange in consultation with the various packers' associations for the nomination of 2 packer representatives knowledgeable in dried tree fruits as well as dried vine fruits. 
The main function of the Research Committee will be to consider proposals for research and to formulate recommendations regarding expenditure on a comprehensive and co-ordinated programme of research for the dried fruits industry for approval by the Minister for Primary Industry. Moneys from the Trust Account are to be used for scientific, economic or technical research of benefit to the dried fruits industry and for such other purposes as are set out in the Bill. These purposes accord with similar provisions in other research legislation. In addition, the Research Committee will recommend on the operative rates of levy on dried fruits to be prescribed from time to time. In making such recommendations the Committee will consult as necessary with the Australian Dried Fruits Association. In bringing forward the proposals that are now incorporated in the legislation before the Senate the dried fruits industry has demonstrated the same spirit of self-help which is the feature of other joint Commonwealthindustry research schemes. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Milliner)  adjourned. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to authorise the imposition of a levy on dried fruits. Amounts equivalent to levy collections will be credited to the Dried Fruits Research Trust Account and be used to finance the dried fruits research scheme which I outlined in my second reading speech on the Dried Fruits Research Bill 1971. The legislation provides that the rate of levy must not exceed $1 per ton of currants, sultanas and raisins and $5 per ton on dried apricots, pears, peaches, nectarines and prunes. The operative rates of levy to be imposed will be prescribed by regulation. The levy will be imposed on the net sweat box weight of all dried fruits of these kinds delivered to packing houses after the commencement of the Act. It is proposed that the initial operative rate of levy in respect of currants, sultanas and raisins will be 50c per ton; in respect of dried tree fruits operative rates of levy relating broadly to the respective sale value of each kind of fruit will be prescribed. 
In establishing the actual rates of levy the recommendations of the Dried Fruits 
Research Committee are to be sought. Dried fruits are delivered by growers to packing houses for further processing, grading and packing. The Australian Dried Fruits Association has recommended and the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  has accepted that the levy be payable by the proprietor of the packing house to which dried fruits are delivered. The amount of the levy will be recoverable from growers' returns. On average levels of production the levy on currants, sultanas and raisins is expected to raise some $45,000 annually from the industry. Levies on dried tree fruits are expected to yield some$15,000 per annum. These amounts together with matching funds from the Commonwealth should provide approximately $120,000 annually to finance research projects of benefit to the dried fruits industry. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Milliner)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill  be  now read a  second  time. 
The purpose of this Bill  is  to provide the machinery necessary for the collection of the levy on dried fruits imposed by the Dried Fruits Levy Bill 1971. The Bill provides for the Act to become operative on the date of commencement of that Levy 
Act and its provisions apply to all dried fruits delivered to packing houses in the 1971 season. It is the intention that all dried fruit packing houses, and there are only some 40-odd of them, will be registered with the Department of Primary Industry for the purposes of this legislation. The packing houses are known and each will be written to regarding the requirements of registration. Regulations will be made prescribing the manner of payment of levy, the records to be kept by packers, the form of returns to be provided by packers and such other matters as are conveniently prescribed by regulation to give effect to the Bill. 
This Bill should be read as one with the Dried Fruits Levy Bill 1971. In some previous Bills dealing with the collection of levies, certain questions concerning law and justice have arisen in Parliament when the Bills were debated. These questions related to prosecutions and the collection of evidence. The present Bill has been modified compared to similar earlier Bills to take account of the views expressed on these questions. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Milliner)  adjourned. 
Sitting suspended from 5.44 to 8 p.m. 
To the best of my knowledge, no wheat has been sold to China in recent months. I am not in a position to comment on the latter part of the honourable senator's question. I ask the honourable senator to put it on notice and I will get some information for him. 
When I gave the previous explanation I was referring to clause 7 (1.), which applies to the majority of growers. However, there are a few growers who pack their own fruit. They will come under clause 7 (2.) and pay exactly the same levy as is paid by the majority of growers, who will pay through the packing house. 
-I will write to the honourable senator. I cannot give that information to him off-hand. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without requests; report adopted. 
As has been stated before, all States have now accepted in principle the Commonwealth offer on the basis of loans totalling $75m at 6 per cent interest and $25m as grants. However, at present the States are studying a draft agreement. Four States have given their views on the draft agreement. Western Australia, my home State, has offered particular comments. I believe that South Australia has not yet replied. It is hoped that when all the States have replied it will be possible before the end of this sessional period to introduce the relevant legislation into the House. I point out to  Senator Young,  as I pointed out to  Senator Prowse  last week, that at present moneys up to $804,000 are available to the South Australian Government under the Commonwealth Loan (Farmers Debt Adjustment) Act. As is the case in Western Australia, in South Australia there may be a need to amend the State legislation. It has always been the intention of the Commonwealth that such unexpended funds should be used before funds for rural reconstruction are advanced by the Commonwealth. As to the use of further funds the Minister for Primary Industry has stated that when the scheme is operating, in the light of the experience gained it will be reviewed from time to time. If there is a need for further funds to be advanced, the matter will be examined. 
The honourable senator, and some honourable senators opposite, have asked numerous questions about assistance for pear growers in the Goulburn Valley. The Government is aware of the situation of those growers. The honourable senator asks: 'Why do we not can the pears?' I suggest that, as the canneries are full of cases of canned pears due lo the present great production of pears, adoption of the honourable senator's suggestion would be only a short term measure and would aggravate the position. Representations for Commonwealth financial assistance have been made to the Victorian Government by representatives of the industry. The Victorian Government has put a case before the Commonwealth Government and it is now being studied. I am quite sure that when the Minister is in a position to make a statement on the matter he will do so. 1 am also sure that the honourable senator does not want the Commonwealth to act. hastily and take half measures. 
 in reply - I wish to thank the Senate for the support which has been given to this legislation. In particular, I w:sh to thank those honourable senators who have contributed to the debate. I do not think that there is any need for me to refer to the purposes of the 3 Bills which are now before the Senate because these purposes are set out quite plainly in my second reading speeches. However, J would like to comment briefly upon a number of the points which were made by various speakers during the course of the debate. 
begin by referring to a point which was made by  Senator Milliner,  who led for the Opposition in this debate.  Senator Milliner  referred to the penalties imposed under this legislation and contrasted those penalties with the penalties imposed on unions for certain offences. He pointed out that in the latter case fines could be up to §1,000. I would point out to him that the penalties in this legislation correspond with the penalties which are set out in other research legislation. In all research legislation the penalty is a maximum of S200. The amount specified of $200 is comparable wilh the amount laid down in the body of Commonwealth law. Therefore, the Government is nol doing anything unreasonable in this regard. 

 Senator Drury referred to the difficulties experienced by the dried fruits industry in his State of South Australia. The Government is considering the points to which he referred, lt is very conscious of the situation which exists in South Australia as well as in many other parts of Australia. These difficulties are, of course, under consideration by the Government all the time and the Government is in close consultation with the industries themselves at all times. The Government has in the past given a considerable amount of assistance to rural industries in general. This assistance has been in the form of lax concessions, fertiliser bounties and agricultural research extension grants. The recent Budget provided assistance to upgrade telephone lines and erect lines within 15 miles of an exchange. 
During the course of his speech  Senator Drury  gave the reasons why the Government's offer of a dried fruits industry stabilisation scheme was turned down by the industry. There have been several discussions between the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  and officers of his Department and the industry on this subject. 1 understand that the industry is at present giving consideration to various aspects of a stabilisation scheme which the Government has put before it. But these are not the only things that we are doing for the industry. I refer to the international sultana agreement which has resulted from the Government's efforts to have agreements reached. Admittedly, because of the great world production of dried fruits, we are finding difficulty with this agreement. Honourable senators may recall that last June the agreement was renewed, but only for a period of 12 months, lt will come up for consideration ..again very shortly. This is the type of thing that the Government is trying to do. lt is consulting with the industry regularly and, wherever possible, is assisting the industry, just as it is assisting it by means of this legislation. 
The honourable senator mentioned also ' the single statutory marketing authority. My advice on this is that the proposal was put up by a minority of growers as an alternative to the present arrangement of an Australian export control board and then a number of State boards. This proposal has not attracted the attention or support of principals in the industry or of the Australian Agricultural Council. In other words, most growers at present are not in favour of the suggestion put forward by the honourable senator. Those are the main points to which I wished to refer.  Senator Laucke  reiterated some of the points that I mentioned in my second reading speech and many points which had been put forward by other speakers.  Senator Byrne  made the position of the Democratic Labor Party quite clear and referred to difficulties within the industry. I have already touched on some of these difficulties. I can say to  Senator Byrne  that this morning during question time I was asked about funds for reconstruction. Whilst those funds in the main are available to support the sheep and wheat industries, I understand that they are available also to some other sections of rural industry. No doubt in due course we will see applications for assistance from the growers with whom we are now dealing. I thank the Senate for supporting this Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
The situation is that in the normal course of events a grower will deliver his fruit to the packing sheds or packing house, whichever you like to call it, and, as honourable senators will know, returns for each variety of fruit go into a pool from which the growers are paid progressively. The levy will be deducted by the packing house from those progressive payments. The packing house will then be liable to pay to the Commonwealth Government the amount of the levy on the dried fruits that it has received. I understand that more than 90 per cent of dried fruits is delivered to the packing houses by 30th June each year. It will be seen that the Bill provides for the payment of the levy to the Commonwealth by 30th November each year. By this time most of the packing houses would have sold a fair proportion of the fruit that had been delivered to them, so there would be no burden on the various pools until the funds were in hand. The Government and the industry believe that payments in this way should be smooth and fairly equitable. 
The provision in clause 4 is really made for some future occasion, in case the situation envisaged ever arises. It applies to the situation in which there is a State government owned packing house. I understand that at the present time no State government owned packing houses are operating. But, as this is a new Bill and as things can change from time to time, it was considered that a State government owned packing house might come into operation. If it did, it would come under clause 4 and would be subject to the levyin the same way as any other packing house would be. 
 I understand so. 
Clauses agreed to. 
Clause 8.  (1.) The following amounts may be recovered by the Commonwealth as debts due to the Commonwealth: 
levy that is payable; 
an amount that is payable to the Commonwealth under section  6  of  this  Act; and 
an amount that is payable by way of penalty under the last preceding section.  (2.)  In proceedings for the recovery of an amount referred to in the last preceding subsection, an averment or statement in the complaint, claim or declaration of the plaintiff is evidence of the matter so averred or stated. 
The Opposition is asking that this clause toe deleted. The Government does not believe that it should be deleted. If the honourable senator looks at the purpose of the Bill he will see that it is designed to provide research levies for the industry purposes. In other words, the industry has said to the Government: 'If we provide a certain amount of money from our production we can use it for industry research'. This is not a tax levied by the Commonwealth Government and paid into the Consolidated Revenue Fund. The industry having put this request to the Government, the Government has said: *Yes, we agree with you and we will make a contribution on a SI for $1 basis'. 
I think the honourable senator will agree that it is only fair that if one is producing the fruit mentioned in the Bill and is reaping the benefits of the research that is done in the industry, then one should make a contribution towards the cost of that research. For that reason there are certain enforcement provisions in the Bill. We all recognise that there are degrees of enforcement. If the industry wanted a large number of inspectors to stand outside the packing sheds and check every vehicle coming in, there would be no need for the enforcement provisions in the Bill. We could go further. If we had more inspectors we could have them at the vineyards watching the cases of fruit being put on the trucks to be taken to the packing sheds, but the cost would be so prohibitive that the Government would not enter such a research scheme as this. That is why the clause in question is in the Bill. The Government believes that it is desirable and that it should be retained. 
 I think the point at issue may be getting out of proportion. Let us look at the situation from a practical point of view. Inthe dried fruits industry about 95 per cent of growers deliver to a packing shed and receive a receipt for the amount of fruit delivered. In due course they receive a statement setting out the amount of fruit and a deduction for the levy. The sort of averment we are discussing will not affect very many growers. 
I was trying to say that if someone came along to a grower and inquired about the amount of fruit he produced he would be able to show a piece of paper setting out a certain amount of fruit. 
That is all it is. If that person then wishes to take the grower to court he will be wasting someone's money. But it would not get to that stage, so that it does not affect the ordinary grower. As to the packing houses, they ha.ve receipts which they can tender. I should point out that an inspector does not make a visit every day, every month or every year. Spot checks are made from time to time. At one particular factory 2 years may elapse between checks. It could be that long. 
As 

 Senator Byrne mentioned, he has plenty of other industries to check. They look after other industries besides the dried fruits industry. Their duties relate to the industries in respect of which such legislation has been passed. They have plenty to do. If an inspector visits a factory and asks to look at the books, evidence is available to show him. If an inspector finds a discrepancy in the quantity delivered to the factory amounting to, say, 1,000 cases of fruit, he will then say: 'Where did you get the thousand cases of fruit for which you have not accounted?' The factory owner is then required to produce proof. There may have been a fire at the next factory down the river. The manager of that factory may have said: 'Will you take my fruit?' No doubt in that case there would be evidence and no more questions would be asked. This is the matter we are really dealing with - an instance of an inspector periodically visiting a factory and asking to see the books.  Senator Murphy  seemed to try to develop a legal wrangle out of the point. Similar provisions are implemented in other legislation to which  Senator Byrne  referred. 
- J said earlier that less than 5 per cent of growers deliver fruit packed by themselves.  Senator Wilkinson  is a farmer. If he sold a certain number of bales of wool privately 1 believe that he would be able to show evidence of the number sold in that way. A grower who packs his fruit himself must sell it somewhere and he would have an indication of how much fruit he sold. An inspector from the Department of Primary Industry would almost certainly know which growers pack their own fruit. He would expect them to send in returns to the Department. If the growers failed to send in returns I suggest that they would get a reminder notice. If they ignored the reminder an insepctor might appear on their properties and ask to see their books. In such a case all a grower has to do is produce his returns and the inspector would then say: 'You had better hurry up with your levy contributions.' That would be the end of it. 
 I wish to take a few minutes to reply firstly to  Senator Milliner.  He referred to the grower who, because of fire or some similar happening lost his receipts for his fruit. I think the simple answer to that problem is for the grower to ask the company or packing house for duplicates. I deal now with clause .ti. I point out to the Senate that the Government has already made a concession in relation to this clause. If one looks at other research legislation one finds that the equivalent clause states that a prosecution may be commenced at any time. The Government, recognising the Senate's views on similar matters, thought that it would look very carefully at the situation, and it did so. The Government finally decided that it could make this legislation work by making the period 5 years. Now the Australian Labor Party says that this is not good enough; that the period should be reduced to 12 months. I believe thu! 12 months is far too short a period. T give my reasons, which are these: In speaking on a previous clause I said that an inspector does spot checks at infrequent intervals. He might not go near a factory for 12, 15 or 1.8 months. A period of 12 months is far too short. 

 Senator Byrne said that he recognised that fact but that he believed that the Government should still shorten the period. I do not know whether he suggested a period, but he said that he thought that 5 years was far too long and that the inspectors should be able to inspect these packing houses or, in some cases, the premises of individual growers before that and that if prosecutions were to be commenced the Government should commence them before the 5 years had expired.  Senator Byrne  went on to suggest that I should have a look at the situation and consult with the officers and advisers of the Department of Primary Industry as well as the Minister for Primary Industry. 
As members of all political parties in this chamber have expressed their disquiet about this matter, I thinkI should give it further consideration. In view of the circumstances pertaining at the present time I think the most appropriate course to adopt is to move that progress be reported. 
Progress reported. 
On a previous occasion the honourable senator asked me a question about the 50th anniversary celebrations of the Royal Australian Air Force and why Tasmania was left out of the flying displays. I answered this question for him. Now he asks whether aircraft can be flown over the built up areas of Tasmania. 1 point out to the honourable senator that there has been a cut in flying hours but that, through continuous flying training, we have been able to put on these Air Force displays. 1 shall consider his request and advise him of the position later. 
-I  think that at the present time there is before the other place legislation for the introduction of a pig industry research levy. This has been requested by the industry. Every State organisation has agreed to the proposal. It has gone before the Australian Agricultural Council where the State Ministers of Agriculture have agreed to it. This Government has been requested to introduce a pig industry research levy in the same way as research levy schemes have been introduced for other industries. 
A group of pig producers in the north of Victoria have said that they believe that a poll of growers should be conducted. They approached the former Minister for Primary Industry on this matter and put their views before him. However, I understand that they have made no attempt to see the present Minister for Primary Industry. One would have thought that if they were interested in having a poll of pig producers in Australia, and knowing that legislation is before the Parliament, they would have come to see the Minister. 
I suggest that honourable senators keep their cries of 'Hear, hear' until a later date. Let us have an explanation of what has gone on. I am well aware that South Australia accepted the basic principles of the $ 1 00rr reconstruction scheme. But what I said to  Senator Young  last week was that the Minister for Primary Industry had not received from South Australia an acceptance of the draft agreement, which is an entirely different matter from that referred to by the honourable senator. I went on to say that Western Australia, my own State, had forwarded its comments on the draft agreement to the Minister for Primary Industry, as had 3 other States. Up to the time when I answered the question, 2 States had not commented on the draft agreement, but all States had accepted the basic principles of the reconstruction scheme. 
I am not sure of that. When answering  Senator Young's  question last week I said that in my State of Western Australia certain moneys were available to that State under the Commonwealth Loan (Farmers Debt Adjustment) Act and also to the South Australian Government under the same Act. The Commonwealth wanted the States to use that money before moneys for the reconstruction scheme were made available to the States. I went on to say that in my State the relevant legislation required amendment by the State Government but the Federal Government had made an offer to Western Australia that if it gave the Commonwealth Government an assurance that it would amend the legislation as soon as the State Parliament sat then the Commonwealth would provide money somewhere near the §430,000 which was available for Western Australia to begin the reconstruction scheme. 
This matter has not come before me and I have not given any direction on it. Leave is a matter for the station commander. If the various station commanders believe that they should grant a day's leave I believe this is their prerogative. However I shall make inquiries for  Senator Willesee  and let him have some further information if it is available. 
I saw this Press report and I obtained information about it. A number of spare parts for the F111C have been returned to the United States of America. They fall into 3 categories and I shall refer to each of them. The first category includes spare parts which will reach the end of their life before they can be used in our aircraft. These are perishable parts, such as tyres. 
 I move: 
That  the  Bill  be  now read a second time. 
The purpose of the Bill is to give effect to the Government's proposals, announced by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  in the Parliament on 15th March, to increase the rate of certain repatriation war and service pensions from the first pay day after 3 1st March 1971. The clients of the Repatriation Department will receive the increases as from 1st April 1971 even though royal assent may not be obtained by that date. Clause 2 of the Bill is so worded as to achieve the desired date of payment. It was originally hoped that the Bill would go through both Houses in time for royal assent to be obtained by 1st April 1971; but, due to the Opposition's request in another place for an adjournment of the debate for1 day, this will not be achievable. Another obvious reason why it will not be possible to receive royal assent by 1st April is that Parliament was not sitting the week before last. The Government wishes to make it clear that the retrospectivity involved on this occasion because of special circumstances should not be taken as a precedent for the future, particularly in view of the very small time period involved and because of the other factors mentioned. 
This Bill now before the Senate provides for higher war compensation payments by way of increases in the rates of war pension for totally and permanently incapacitated ex-service men and women and those who, because of the severity of their warcaused disabilities, receive payments equal to the TPI rate, namely, the war blinded, those temporarily totally incapacitated, those receiving the special rate of war pension for tuberculosis, and those double amputees who receive additional amounts under the first 6 items of the Fifth Schedule. It provides also for increases in the intermediate rate payable to those whose war-caused incapacity allows them to work only part time or intermittently, and for an increase in the rate of pension payable to war widows. The Bill also incorporates some amendments to the Act of a machinery nature necessary for applying to service pensioners the increases which are being proposed for age and invalid pensioners. 
I shall now proceed to explain the changes in more detail. The rates of war pension for which increases are proposed in this Bill are to be found in the schedules to the Repatriation Act. Although they are expressed in the Act as fortnightly amounts, it has long been the custom for honourable senators to refer to the weekly amounts payable and I will continue this practice. The Bill provides for an amendment to the Second Schedule to the Act to give effect to an increase of$1 a week for the special totally and permanently incapacitated rate of pension paid to those people whose war caused incapacities prevent them from earning more than a negligible percentage of a living wage, to the war blinded and certain sufferers from tuberculosis. The new rate will be $39 a week, which will also apply to exservicemen who are temporarily totally incapacitated. The amounts payable under the first 6 items of the Fifth Schedule for more severe incapacity resulting from double amputations will also be increased by SI a week so that the total amount payable to these pensioners will continue to be equal to the TPI rate of pension. 
The intermediate rate, payable under the sixth footnote to the First Schedule to those who. because of war-caused incapacity, can work only part-time or intermittently and are thereby unable to earn a living wage, will be increased by 50c a week. The new rate will be $28.50 a week. The Bill amends column 3 of the First Schedule to provide an increase of 50c a week in war widows' pensions. As honourable senators will know, the Repatriation Act provides for payment of service pensions at rates expressed in the Social Services Act as applying to age and invalid pensions. However, to enable the new provisions proposed for age and invalid pensioners to be similarly applied to service pensioners, it has been necessary to make some machinery amendments to the Repatriation Act. Clauses 3, 4 and 5 of the Bill do this. The Bill also appropriates the Consolidated Revenue Fund to the extent necessary to provide during the current year the additional payments to which this Bill gives effect. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Bishop)  adjourned. 
-I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Bill before the Senate is in accordance with the usual practice of the Government to keep the rates of pensions and allowances payable to seamen war pensioners under the Seamen's War Pensions and Allowances Act in line with the rates of war pensions and allowances payable to other war pensioners under the Repatriation Act. The purpose of the Bill is to raise, in relation to seamen, various rates of pension in line with the increases of corresponding rates being made in the Repatriation Bill just introduced. These increases are in accordance with the higher rates recently announced by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon). 
Clause 3 of the Bill increases the intermediate rate of war pension by 50c a week to $28.50. The intermediate pension is paid to seriously disabled persons whose wax caused incapacities render them incapable of working other than on a part-time or intermittent basis. Clause 4 substitutes a new First Schedule to the Act to provide for an increase of 50c in the weekly rate of pension payable to widows of Australian mariners. The Bill does not have to provide for the increase of $1 to $39 per week in the rate of the totally and permanently incapacitated pension or for the increase of $1 in the weekly amounts payable in respect of certain disabilities described in the Fifth Schedule to the Repatriation Act, as the increased rates under that Act will apply automatically to seamen pensioners by virtue of section 22a of the Seamen's War Pensions and Allowances Act. 
As is the case in respect of the repatriation legislation, the Bill provides for the increases in pensions to be payable from 1st April 1971 as announced by the Prime Minister. The Government wishes to make it clear, however, as I have stated in my second Reading speech on the Repatriation Bill, that the retrospectivity involved on this occasion because of the special circumstances should not be taken as a precedent for the future. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Bishop)  adjourned. 
in reply -  I  think I should comment on the remarks made by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy).  It is a fact that usually such provisions are expressed to operate from the date of royal assent. In the second reading speech of this Repatriation Bill 1970 the Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Holten)  pointed out that in this case, due to special circumstances, this action had been taken. He also pointed out that this was not to be looked upon as something that would happen every time. While I  shall convey to the Minister the Leader of the Opposition's remarks,I want the Senate to understand that this practice will not occur on all occasions. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Report adopted. 
 Mr Temporary Chairman,  I think that some clarification of the situation is needed. Under the existing 7 Acts relating to research the equivalent clauses state that a prosecution may be commenced at any time. 
Representatives of the various organisations to which the honourable senator referred met last November and formed a committee. Early in December an announcement was made by the Minister for Primary Industry. I understand that the committee has met with a view to examining ways and means by which it can implement a programme, directed at consumers, teachers and students, and the trade generally, to promote the sale of lamb in the 3 countries that the honourable senator mentioned. [ further understand that this programme is due to come into operation about the middle of this year. That is all the information I can give the honourable senator. 
The Chief of the Air Staff was addressing a conference. He said that in the light of the Vietnam campaign he thought a study should be made of the capabilities of helicopters performing in both permissive and non-permissive areas; that is, when not under ground fire and when under ground fire. A very careful study is being made. The Chief of the Air Staff went on to refer to the maritime contribution. A study is being conducted by the Department of Defence in respect of the maritime contribution of the Royal Australian Air Force in conjunction with Navy patrols. He then referred to the possible end of life of the Hercules C130A transports and suggested that we could be looking at a tanker cum transport aircraft which would help our flying capabilities with Mirage and helicopter aircraft and would give greater range to the F111. However, I remind the Senate that the distance capability of the F111 is no worry whatsoever to us because it meets all our requirements without tanker support. 
The Minister for Primary industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senators question:  1 have noted that the Minister representing me in the Senate replied on 15th March, to an identical question without notice asked by the honourable senator (Hansard pages 480-481). I would add only that in years when weather conditions have caused some wheat to be 'inferior' it has been sold to many markets, including large quantitiesto the United Kingdom, for feed purposes. 
Yesterday,  Senator Willesee  asked me a question regarding Royal Australian Air Force leave. I said that if I could obtain any further information I would provide it. I have made further inquiries about leave for RAAF servicemen and have been informed that members of the RAAF on mainland bases and units who have been involved in additional work in the preparation of the flying displays and the RAAF anniversary celebrations will be granted a day's leave in the near future. This is to compensate them for the many additional hours they have been required to work over this period without overtime pay which civilians would receive. The leave is at the discretion of the officers commanding. 
Yesterday,  Senator Rae  directed a question to me regarding a flypass over built up areas in Tasmania. I have examined this matter again. The position is that there are no Royal Australian Air Force supporting facilitities in Tasmania and to undertake a flying display there would involve the movement of many personnel and supporting equipment to Tasmania and this would bring heavy expenditure in a period when we are endeavouring to keep costs down. In the case of the mainland displays the RAAF has been able to use the facilities of RAAF bases for personnel, equipment and support generally. The total cost of the displays was therefore kept to a minimum. I regret that I cannot agree to a display as requested. 
When the debate was adourned we were dealing with clause  11  of the Bill. It relates to offences against the legislation. The Committee will recall that when I sought leave to report progress the Opposition had proposed that clause  11  be amended by omitting 'Five years' and inserting 'twelve months'. During the debate  Senator Byrne  of the Australian Democratic Labor Party gave his opinion that the period of  5  years is too long and that a period of  12  months could be too short. He suggested a compromise period of 3 or 4 years, or even 2 years. He also suggested that I consult the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  and his departmental officers. 
I will remind the Committee of what took place. In clause  11  the Government of its own accord has restricted the time during which court action may be taken, in order to meet the wishes of the Senate. In other research legislation the equivalent provision states that a prosecution may be commenced at any time. Honourable senators from all parties had expressed their disquiet at the provision. The period of  5  years has been chosen after a considerable amount of thought by the Department. After all, the levy is a tax and it must be collected equitably from all who are liable to pay. Parliament lays an obligation on the operative department to collect the levy and the Auditor-General on behalf of Parliament expects the operative department to be able to demonstrate that it is taking action to collect all the levies that Parliament has approved. Honourable senators should remember that there are  7  similar levies, most of them involving greater sums than that detailed in this measure. 
The Department of Primary Industry has only a limited staff to inspect and audit the books of growers, packing houses, abattoirs, brokers and so on, through whom the levies are collected. The Department operates a rolling  system  of spot checks. It takes several years for the range of industries to be covered throughout the States. In this industry only certain States are involved and it is hoped to be able to integrate the packing houses in those States into the producers governing levy collection without the need to increase the number of inspectors. Of course, it would be an absurd situation if in order to try to cover the field in an unduly short time the staff had to be increased to such an extent that the cost of checking the levy collection would form a sizeable proportion of the total available for research, even though this cost is not borne directly by the research fund itself. Even when an infringement is uncovered, the Department makes every effort to adjust the matter without recourse to prosecution. Court action is taken only as the last resort. 
There is thus a need for a moderate period of time, in addition to whatever period is needed to enable the inspectors to function in the course of their operations, to oversight levy collections throughout the industry so that the facts may be determined, and if possible the levy may be collected without legal action. That is the whole aim of the measure. The Committee should also bear in mind that we are dealing with what is purely a civil matter concerning levy collection. It is necessary that there be some power of enforcement so that some growers do not escape their obligations towards their fellow growers. At the same time the Government wishes to be able to ensure that the levies are collected, and with the minimum staff of inspectors. That is why the time period of  5  years was provided. 
Following the expression of doubts by the Committee I sought leave to report progress and agreed to look into the matter. I have consulted the Minister and departmental officers and am prepared to accept a period of 3 years in substitution for  5  years as provided in clause  11.  In enforcing the collection of levies imposed by this and similar legislation for research purposes the Department prefers to avoid prosecution if at all possible. It has no wish to harrass people. The period of 5 years proposed in the Bill as submitted would permit time for negotiation about overdue payments in order to effect collection, without recourse to court action. 
By limiting the period to 3 years there is a risk that the Department may have to proceed with prosecutions which the longer period of  5  years would enable it to avoid. Naturally, the Department will still seek to settle any difficulties amicably, but there is a possibility of having to go to law rather than allow someone to escape his obligations through the effluxion of the time that the Parliament is prepared to allow for this purpose. However, the Government is prepared to accept the shorter period of 3 years. 1 suggest that the Committee might now go on to deal with the amendment proposed by the Opposition. When we have dealt wilh it, should the Committee see fit lc negate it. I will move that a period of 3 years be substituted for that of 5 years now provided in the Bill. 
-BROCK AN - As I am reminded, there is no limitation of time at all. Knowing the disquiet of senators on all sides of the Committee regarding similar clauses in other research Bills, the Government has proposed a limitation of 5 years in this Bill. 
Let us look at the situation. We are dealing with the dried fruits industry. This includes dried vine fruits, dried apricots, dried peaches, dried pears, dried nectarines and dried prunes. If honourable members study the legislation they will see that all fruit delivered to a factory up to 30th September is subject to a levy to be paid on 30th November. If a, grower has a line of late fruit and he delivers that fruit on 1st October, payment of his levy is not due until 30th November, 12 months later. So, to insert '12 months' into this clause would not fit this situation at all because in the case that I have mentioned nearly 14 months would have elapsed before the grower was due to pay his levy. 
I said that periodic inspections are carried out on the various packers. Let me get the situation right with  Senator Milliner. 
The honourable senator said that dried fruits are grown in a small area of Australia only. That is true, senator. But I point out that these inspectors carry out inspections on all other research schemes. So, they are not concentrated full time on dried fruits; their activities include all other research levies. Inspections are not conducted every 12 months. They are conducted at all sorts of times. Even 15 months or longer may elapse before inspectors get around to a particular factory. Because a grower may deliver fruit on 1st October in one year and payment of his levy then is not due until 30th November of the following year - and some time must be allowed to elapse to enable detection of non-payment of that levy - as in the case I have just instanced, there would be no hope of trying to carry out a prosecution within 12 months. So, the time allowed must be more than 12 months. 
The Government, aware of the feelings of the Committee on the 5 years provision, has had a look at the situation. It says: Well, we can reduce it to 3 years'. But the reduction to 3 years means that, instead of having talks with offenders to try to get them to pay the levy rather than go to court, we may be forced instead because of the limitation of time to prosecute them. We do not want to do that. We do not want to harass growers. While agreeing to the new provision of 3 years, because this is the wish of the Committee, the Department of Primary Industry hai expressed a doubt about this provision. I believe that the proposed amendment to insert '12 months' if carried would provide far too short a period. I believe that the 3 years proposed, perhaps, is far too short to do justice to the growers. Nevertheless, the Department says that it believes that it can operate under this proposal but it has some doubts. As  Senator Young  has said, this levy has been sought by the industry and it will be paid by the industry. If it is necessary to employ more inspectors to ensure that every grower who delivers fruit to a packer has paid the levy, the industry might say that the scheme has become too costly and that it will not continue with the levy. I believe that the Minister and the Department have done everything necessary to meet the wishes of the Senate. I hope that the Committee will agree to a period of 3 years rather than 5 years. Most certainlyI shall not support a period of 12 months. 
Question put: 
That the amendment  (Senator Milliner's)  be agreed to. 
The Royal Australian Air Force Band was present at most functions during the jubilee celebrations and on most occasions the band travelled in the Hercules aircraft that was used to take equipment to the various bases where aerial displays were held. On those occasions the band went along as part of the cargo. It is true that a dinner was held at the Hotel Canberra as part of the celebrations. I believe that most of the stewards who staffed the dining room came from Fairbairn. RAAF stewards were present, but I shall have to check to find out where they came from. I shall look into the other matters raised by the honourable senator and, if further information is available, I shall supply it to him. I remind the Senate that at that time we were celebrating the 50th anniversary of the RAAF and that provision for. these expenses was revealed in the Estimates at Budget time. 
This is a question I have been asked continuously over a long period. As the honourable senator is aware, the Hercules 130A aircraft are drawing towards the time when they will become a liability and the Royal 
Australian Air Force is looking for a replacement. The Boeing 707-320 is one of the aircraft that the RAAF is looking at. We are looking also at the proposition that the replacement for the Hercules could do the job of a transport and a tanker aircraft. The Boeing 707-320 is one of the aircraft that can do that job. 
The Department of Air has made a submission to the Department of Defence, which is examining the situation. As to whether the Air Force will need a tanker for refuelling the Fill, my view is that the range of the Fill meets the requirements of the RAAF at the present time but its capability could) of course, be enhanced considerably with in-flight refuelling. It may be necessary for us to look at this proposition from the point of view of our Phantom force should we ever decide to increase it, but at the present time no decision has  been made. I have seen the report the honourable senator referred to and I can state categorically that at this stage no report has been put before the Government. 
I am not aware of the situation which the honourable senator has drawn to the attention of' the Senate. B cannot give him details of it. I ..shall approach the Department of Primary Industry, find the answer, to his question and give it to him as soon as I can. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
The matter of in-flight refuelling for RAAF aircraft is still under consideration between my Department and the Department of Defence. 
The Phantom aircraft are engaged in training exercises in the Amberley area. They are capable of deployment to other bases without in-flight refuelling. 
The cost of the tanker-transport aircraft being considered by my Department is approximately $10m. This includes the cost of provision of certain spares and other associated facilities 
The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The essential export requirement for dairy products is the diversification of markets and types of product to provide for the likely developing situation in the event of Britain's entry into the European Economic Community. 
No. 
State legislation which regulates the production of margarine for domestic consumption has existed for over 30 years and has been supported by all Governments in that period. In effect the legislation has had the support of all political parties. 
No. The Government does not feel there Is any insoluble problem about specially producing blends for export if the Australian Dairy Produce Board wishes to meet a specific demand on an overseas market which could otherwise be lost to competing dairy exporting countries: 
As pointed out in (3) the regulation of mar garine production for domestic consumption is covered by State legislation. 
I am aware of the situation to which the honourable senator refers simply because the other day I received a letter along similar lines, which I am asking the Department of Primary Industry to investigate at the present time. When I have further information I will be able to inform the honourable senator. 
I think the question of wheat trade with China is a matter which has interested many sections of the community, and many people have had a lot to say ' on the subject. I think also that the Senate should be aware of the fact that at no time has an official Chinese source stated that it was not going to take any more Australian wheat. Furthermore. I think it should be made clear that at no time has any official Chinese source said that the recognition of China is a prerequisite for trade with that country. At all times there has been no dearth of mischievous people who have endeavoured to make political capital out of the question of recognition of Red China. If their purpose has been to disrupt trade with that country and intensify difficulties for primary industries then it does appear as though some of them have been successful. I think that  Mr Price,  because of this background, has made this statement. I have not seen the full text. 
I shall ask for it and have a look at it. Then I shall be in a position to comment. 
The 
Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry,  Senator Cotton,  said in answer to the honourable senator's question that he would obtain some information for the honourable senator. I have spoken to  Senator Cotton  about, this matter and he has agreed with me that perhaps T should add to his answer. I support what  Senator Cotton  said on this matter. I would point out to  Senator Prowse  that the Department of Trade and Industry is very aware of the position as a result of the information supplied by its Trade Commissioners in the area, who are alert to the possibility of the sale of mutton in this area. If there is any change of policy in India and Pakistan these men will be pushing Australia's case for the sale of our mutton. However, I should remind the Senate that both Pakistan and India have at the present time very strict foreign exchange requirements. These strict requirements prohibit the importation of non-essential goods and meat is low in priority in the list of non-essential goods. 
 I think the short answer is yes. The honourable senator has more or less provided his own answer to the question. The Senate will recall that in the late 1950s and early 1960s all the wheat bins throughout Australia were full and a lot of the wheat was being eaten by weevils. We obtained a market quickly. This year we have been able to make sales all over the world and to sell sufficient wheat to give us an estimated carry-over of well below 200 million bushels without sales to China. 
I understand that what the honourable senator said is true. The United States of America has not traded with Communist 
China for many years. Quite likely if Australia recognised Communist China in order to get into this wheat trade, then possibly America, with its great surplus, would have to look to this market. 
I shall have to look at that question because 1 am not fully aware of all the details involved. I should like the honourable senator to come and see me and to explain to me what he has in mind. There was a drop in production in Victoria and I know that extra quotas were issued. But that is not the point that the honourable senator is raising at the present time. 
I have some figures on this subject, but I do not have them with me at the present time. I shall certainly ensure that the honourable senator gets them. 
I understand that the abattoir mentioned by the honourable senator was one of those de-listed late last year following an inspection by an American veterinarian because they were not up to the standard required by the United States of America for exports of meat to that country. He found that some aspects of the premises were not in accordance with the United States requirements. These included inadequate facilities and deficiencies in regard to equipment which would require fairly extensive alterations. I understand that the management has been informed of this and that as soon as the abattoirs are brought up to the requirements laid down the Department of Primary Industry will request that the American veterinarian go in and inspect the premises. Then, if they are passed, the abattoirs will be listed again for the export of meat to the United States market. 
I think the honourable senator will recall that last year, because of the delayed delivery of the F111C and the need to have an adequate strike force in the Royal Australian Air Force while waiting for the delivery of the Fill, Australia leased 24 Phantoms. In the statement made by the then Minister for Defence the cost of the lease was set out. The honourable senator will recall that the lease was for 2 years in the first instance, but it may be extended for a longer period if required. There are no current plans for increasing the number of Phantoms in the RAAF; but I might say that if, for some reason, the Fills did not meet our requirements, as laid down by the Fraser-Laird agreement of last year, and were not acceptable to us, then we would have to consider the need for an alternative aircraft. One such alternative could be an increase in the number of Phantoms. The honourable senator also asked me to give details of the costs of the lease. Had the honourable senator attended the meeting of Estimates Committee E last week he would have heard that provision is made in the supplementary Estimates for an appropriation for this purpose for the remainder of the financial year. 
That is unfortunate. I advise the honourable senator to study the record when it is issued. From memory, an appropriation of $3.4m is sought for the whole year. 
lt will be recalled that the former Minister for Primary Industry made an offer to the States of $100m over a period of 20 years with a 3-year holiday period and an interest rate of 3 per cent. The States rejected this offer and accepted an offer of $75m over a 20-year period at 6 per cent with a 3-year holiday period and $25m as a grant. Each State accepted this in principle. However, a formal agreement was sent to all State Ministers of Agriculture who have now all replied to the Government accepting the agreement. Some State Ministers of Agriculture have, of course, offered comments. Victoria has accepted the formal agreement as forwarded to that State by the Minister for Primary Industry. I believe that the Commonwealth would not have made this offer if it had thought that it would not work. Furthermore, I believe that if it is to work we must have the co-operation of all people concerned with this reconstruction proposal. 
The 
Commonwealth is involved only to the extent that it chairs the Australian Agricultural Council. The quota system has been implemented by State governments. 
I shall put it the other way. The decision on quotas has been made by State governments for nearly 30 years and the decision has been accepted by all governments over that time. The present situation is that it has been agreed among the States that if there is to be any change in quotas the State concerned will bring the matter before the Australian Agricultural Council. 
I thought that I answered this question in the week before last. I indicated then that the Commonwealth was aware of the situation and that the former Minister for Primary Industry had met the growers concerned about this matter and had stated at the time that if representations were made to the Victorian Government for financial assistance and if that Government saw fit to approach the Commonwealth Government every consideration would be given to the request. I understand that the Victorian Government did make a request to the Prime Minister 3 or 4 weeks ago and that the Government is still examining the request. 
On 20th April  Senator Poke  asked me a question regarding the Royal Australian Air Force Jubilee Dinner. In answering the question I  said that  I  would seek further information regarding the number of stewards who were at that dinner.  I  now give the honourable senator the following information: 
To mark the occasion of the RAAF Jubilee an Air Force dinner was held to which were invited His Royal Highness, the Duke of Edinburgh, who graciously attended, senior serving members of the RAAF, past Chiefs of the Air Staff, founder members of the RAAF, together with His Excellency the GovernorGeneral, the Prime Minister and members of the Government, the Leader of and other members of the Opposition and representatives of the other Services. 
A similar dinner graced by the presence of Her Majesty the Queen was held at Cranwell to honour the RAF Jubilee. 
Under normal circumstances the dinner would have been held at a RAAF base, with the simple traditional formalities which are observed on the occasion of Service diningin functions. 
However, in the absence of a suitable Mess in Canberra capable of accommodating the number of guests to be invited, it was necessary to use other facilities. 
In the event, the dinner was held at the Hotel Canberra. 
To present a reasonable Service atmosphere, appropriate to the occasion, arrangements were made to use RAAF and WRAAF stewards who were familiar with diningin customs, to serve at table. 
The tables were decorated with suitable silverware and candelabra, borrowed from the Messes to which they belong, and some other table appointments were Service issue. 
Twentyone of the 32 stewards who provided the service in the ante-room and dining room were from RAAF base Fairbairn. 
The others, loaned by other bases, were accommodated overnight at Fairbairn. 
The hotel kitchen staff prepared the meal. 
 The Minister for the Army has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Polyester shirts and trousers are issued to the Regular Army for summer uniform wear primarily as a walking out dress. Because of the part time nature of CMF service, the occasions on which this uniform could be worn by members below the rank of sergeant would be very limited, and for purposes of training the jungle green uniform is considered to be appropriate. 
Exceptions to this policy are made in the case of bandsmen, cadets at Officer Cadet Training Units and drivers of general officers where this type of uniform is a functional requirement. 
The target strength for this financial year (as per the Defence Report 1970) is 36,000 and the current strength is approximately 4,500 below this. The Military Board is at present actively reviewing all aspects of the situation to pin-point reasons and devise ways and means of overcoming the deficiency. At this stage, in regard to the second part of this question, it can only be said that the jungle green uniforms on issue to the CMF are by no means second class and are in fact quite suitable for training purposes in summer. 
Not at present. 
1 inform the honourable senator that the submission from the Premier of Victoria was sent to the Prime Minister on 16th March. At the present time the Government is studying the submission, and further than that I have nothing to say. 
The honourable senator's question serves only to show the seriousness of the position in the wheat/ sheep and sheep areas of this country. It points out the need for the rural reconstruction project to come into force so that debt reconstruction may take place. I point out to the honourable senator that 6 States are involved in this scheme and that they all have now accepted the formal agreement. It has been stated, time and time again, that funds are available to the States under the Commonwealth Loan (Farmers' Debt Adjustment) Act. They are able to use these and the Commonwealth would like them to use them before they get other Commonwealth funds. I understand that in South Australia legislation has passed through the State Parliament amending the old Farmers' Debt Adjustment Act making it possible for the South Australian Government to use this money from this moment on. The matter of finance for superphosphate was brought up at a recent meeting of State Ministers for Agriculture. At that conference the West Australian Minister made the point that the same problem is facing farmers in Western Australia and that the Government of Western Australia has made money available to them by taking a lien over the incoming crop. Perhaps South Australia could follow suit in this regard. 
I think the honourable senator has his facts mixed up quite considerably. The Royal Australian Air Force had a requirement for a strike aircraft and, after carrying out an evaluation of the aircraft available at that time, a decision was made to buy 24 Fills. 
The decision could not possibly be made in 2 days. A long and detailed study was made of the aircraft available throughout the world at that time. On all brochures relating to aircraft performance standards are stated. Any person who attends an air show will see this information giving details of what the manufacturers believe the aircraft will do. From my knowledge no aircraft that has yet been built has lived up to every single standard of performance indicated in the brochure published by the manufacturer. All I can say to the honourable senator is that the Fill still more than meets the RAAF requirements so far as range is concerned. 
I might like to get on the bandwagon with  Senator Cavanagh  because this is a matter which comes under State jurisdiction. Although the Commonwealth made the initial funds available to the States for war service settlers the rent is collected by the States. They take from the rent the various expenses and meet the interest payments fixed by the Commonwealth. This matter is one for the Government of South Australia. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
The amount spent to date is$A1,081 on minor repairs. Other repairs are in course of progress, but, as stated in an earlier reply to  Senator Keeffe  I will not be in a position to inform the Parliament of the amount involved until repairs to the aircraft are completed. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Details of the production of kangaroo meat and kangaroo skins are not available. However, exports have been as follows: 
Kangaroo meat- 1969-70 1,710,498 lb, value $236,165; July 1970 to February 1971 441,973 lb, value $62,224. 
Kangaroo skins- 1969-70 835,279 skins, value $1,567,753; July 1970 to February 1971 627,900 skins, value $1,345,953. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
In November 1970 invitations were forwarded by my Department to Chiefs of Air Staff of a number of countries for them and their wives to be guests of the RAAF during the celebrations connected with the 50th Anniversary of the founding of the RAAF. The invitation was extended to a representative should a Chief of the Air Staff be unable to attend. 
The invitation covered a period of up to 6 days. The cost of hotel accommodation and transport while in Australia, estimated at $3,900 is at the expense of my Department. The cost of travel to and from Australia is the responsibility of the Governments of the countries concerned. 
I think the honourable senator will appreciate that I only represent in this chamber the Minister for the Navy and, as his questions related to policy, I would have to convey them to the Minister for the Navy for his reply. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to provide the machinery necessary forthe collection of the levy imposed by the Pig Slaughter Levy Bill 1971. The effect of the Bill is that the incidence of the levy will fall on the owner of the pig at time of slaughter. Provisions are also incorporated to cater for persons who regularly purchase pigs for slaughter. The Bill provides for the Act to become operative on. the same date as the Pig Slaughter Levy Bill. In earlier legislation relating to similar Bills the Parliament debated certain causes which called into question matters of 'law and justice'. These referred to right of access to premises and the time limits to commence prosecutions for offences under the Act. In the Bill now before the Senate the. relevant clauses have been amended to take note of the opinions expressed in the Parliament. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Milliner)  adjourned. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.5 p.m. 
I understand that this afternoon  Mr Cope,  the General Manager of the Northern Victoria Fruitgrowers Association, will be meeting the Prime Minister. Until that meeting takes place and an announcement is made after it, I have no information to add to what I have said before. I remind the honourable senator that  Mr Cope  is the man who made the suggestion earlier in the year that $250,000 should be made available to the industry. At the time of making that suggestion he said that the producers in that area knew that the Government would require of the industry some long term reconstruction programme so that fruit production could be regulated. He went on to say that the producers of the fruit did not realise that the crop they were growing could not be sold this year. Surely that is an extraordinary situation as the industry at that time had already stored and on hand about 1.8 million car tons of canned fruit. The honourable senator has suggested that the Government could can more of the crop, but that seems to me to be an extremely shortsighted policy because next year we would be mct with a double quantity of canned fruit and there would not be any demand for the incoming crop. I believe that the Government must take a long term view in trying to help the industry. 
Pursuant to section 12 of the Marginal Dairy Farms Agreements Act 1970, I present a copy of an agreement made between the Commonwealth and the State of South Australia in relation to the marginal dairy farms reconstruction scheme. 
-I  move - 
Thatthe Bill be now read a second time. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Byrne)  - Leave to do what? 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT - Do you mean to speak or to move for the second reading? 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT - No, I do not think it is customary. I am advised that the fact that the Minister successfully moved a motion for the suspension of Standing Orders to enable him to proceed with the Bill through all its stages forthwith permits him then to deliver his second reading speech. 
I am only following the normal practice. The purpose of this Bill is to provide for the establishment and operation of a joint Commonwealth-industry research scheme for theAustralian pig industry. Funds will be raised by means of. a levy on all pigs slaughtered for human consumption and theGovernment will provide a matching contribution, on a  $1  for $1 basis, to meet expenditure on approved research projects. This new scheme for the pig industry, together with the one proposed earlier for dried fruits research, means that  9  industries whose production represents over  70  per cent of the combined worth of rural output are exercising selfhelp by contribution to research, backed by the Commonwealth Government. The pig industry in Australia is in a period of rapid growth and development. Pig numbers have increased fairly consistently from around  1  million in  1953  to  2.3  million in  1969  and at the same time there has been a trend to larger herd sizes. In the  16  years to  1968- 69  pig meat production has almost doubled and for  1969-70  the gross value of pigs slaughtered is estimated to be in excess of $100m. 
The pig industry through its federal organisation, the Australian Commercial Pig Producers Federation, approached the Government and requested the introduction of a research scheme for its industry. The Government has expressed its willingness to participate with the pig industry in a jointly financed research scheme. The Australian Agricultural Council was also informed and has fully endorsed the proposals. The Federation is comprised of  6 
State councils. Through the membership of the pig producer and breeder bodies who form these councils, the Federation represents by far the great majority of farmers in this industry. For many years the industry had been at a disadvantage because of the fragmented nature of its organisation. It now has a national voice, the Federation. One of the first actions of the Federation was to seek this research scheme thereby bringing the pig industry into line with the advantages enjoyed by other live-, stock industries. 
The Bill will establish a pig research trust account and provide for- a ' pig research committee which will make recommendations concerning expenditure from the Fund. It also sets out the purposes for which money from the fund can be used. The research committee will be comprised of 6 representatives from the Australian Commercial Pig Producers Federation, 2 from the Australian Agricultural Council and one each representing the Commonwealth Scientific and' Industrial Research Organisation, universities and the Department of Primary Industry. It will be noted that the industry representatives on the committee constitute a majority. This was requested by the industry and is consistent with the situation on the research' committees that have been set up by legislation for other primary industries. The committee will, among other duties, have the responsibility for recommending the amount of the industry levy. It will also consider research proposals and make recommendations on a comprehensive programme of research expenditure for the pig industry for approval by the Minister for Primary Industry. This programme would complement the valuable work already being undertaken by State departments of agriculture and the universities. 
Purposes for which moneys from the fund may be expended broadly follow the precedent established for other CommonwealthIndustry research schemes. Moneys from the trust account would be used for scientific, economic or technical research into the Australian pig industy. The proposed research scheme is a logical extension of the schemes already operating successfully in other rural industries. In the pig industry there are many production and marketing problems to be overcome. These extend through disease control, breeding, nutrition, management and marketing. The industry is fully aware of the problems and recognises that a carefully planned research programme would materially assist in determining solutions. I consider that the industry has shown a responsible attitude in taking the initiative to bring forward the proposals that are now incorporated in the legislation before the" Senate. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Milliner)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
I concurred in the return of spares to the USA. 
It is so that these men have restricted repatriation benefits. The reason for that has been stated by the Government time and time again. I will bring before the Minister for Repatriation the honourable senator's question and see what information I can obtain for him. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
The value of the F111C spares stored in Australia is about $US37m. 
The value of spares returned to the United States of America is being credited to the Commonwealth at full acquisition cost. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is. as follows: 
As stated in reply to an earlier question the. value of the spares stored in Australia is $US37m. The whole of these spares will not be returned to the United States of America. 
No spares have been returned because of deterioration. The majority of spares returned to date for use' by the United States Air Force are those having a finite storage life. These are valued at about$US690,000 and will be credited to the 
Commonwealth at their acquisition price. Spare to the value of about $US2.2m have been returned for rework due to modification changes to the aircraft rendering the existing spare parts unsuitable. After rework these spares will be returned to Australia. Certain other spares have also been returned toUSAF at its request to cover shortfalls in the USAF inventory. The value of these spares is about $US1 15,000 which has been credited to the Commonwealth. 
Of the total $US37m values of spares stored in Australia about $US27m represents the cost of Maintenance Supply Items (Repairable equipment items) which are not consumable or subject to repetitive replacement. These will be retained in stock until a decision to: accept or reject the F-111C aircraft is made. . 
I believe that all States have now accepted in principle the proposition put before them by the Commonwealth. I understand that in Western Australia the plan is fully operative at the present time. In regard to the remaining States, I am not sure of the situation. I will make some inquiries and let the honourable senator know. 
 I have a break-down of the $9. 11 6m. The flow on from the 9.5 per cent increase to Third Division officers amounted to $932,000. The 6 per cent national wage increase as from 1st January of this year amounted to $2.038m. Equal pay for women amounted to $252,000. A pay increase for chaplains amounted to $8,000. There are a number of smaller amounts such as increases for apprentices and air cadets amounting to $207,000. The male officers' pay increase, which took place in September of last year, amounted to $ 1.041m. The pay loading increase, which was an increase of 25c a day to airmen, amounted to $1.381m. Various trade regroupings amounted to $2.337m. Finally, the flight pay increase, which was made about the middle of last year, amounted to $920,000. That gives a total of $9.1 16m. 
It is advice that the Department has received from its legal officers following an accident to an airman who was attending a bushfire at the Royal Australian Air Force base at Pearce. 
 I shall give a breakdown of the extra appropriation of $7.71 3m that is sought for the Permanent Air Force in relation to the item concerning pay and allowances in the nature of pay. An extra expenditure of $9. 116m has been incurred as a result of increases which have been granted to officers of the Commonwealth Public Service, including the 6 per cent increase that was granted earlier this year. An increased provision is required also for pay in lieu of long service leave and recreation leave. One cannot always be sure how many people are going to accept pay in lieu for either or both of those leave periods. 
This was an additional appropriation that the Department of Air sought, having in mind a particular case that arose at the Royal Australian Air Force base at Pearce. There was a bushfire accident there. Acting on the advice of its legal officers in Western Australia the Department has sought an appropriation in relation to this matter. 
I do not have all the facts. I will get as much information as I can and forward it to the honourable senator. 
Under Division 664, item 15. Pensions to former servicemen in special circumstances, there was an original appropriation of $7,440. At the time of the Budget there were several cases involved. The application for the additional appropriation of $1,400 is for one particular case. The money comes out of the Army appropriation. 
What the honourable senator says in the early pant of his question represents a situation that exists in many parts of Australia, and particularly in the rural industries. It is because of that situation that the Government is trying to do something, in the form of debt reconstruction, to assist the primary producer to readjust his debts so that he can obtain finance to carry on. I will ask the Minister for Primary Industry to have a look at the remainder of the honourable senator's question. If 1 can obtain some further information, I will convey it to him. 
The short answer is no. Although the Fill has had 18 crashes to date it still has a much better record for the first 40,000 hours than the FI 00 series that are in operation in America. In regard to making a recommendation to Cabinet, the honourable senator is fully aware that, under the FraserLaird agreement, Australia has until the end of this year to have a look at the technical or operational requirements that we are seeking, to see whether the Americans have reached that standard and then to make a decision. Only then will Australia make that decision. 

 - Mr 


 President, Senator Poyser asked me a question a short while ago and I told him that I would seek further information about the matter. I now have the information and would like to take the opportunity to give it to him. I said that all States had accepted the maginal dairy farms reconstruction scheme. The scheme was formally accepted by Western Australia on 20th July last year; by Queensland on 14th September 1970 and is in full operation. It was formally accepted in Tasmania on 4th December 1970 and validating legislation bad passed the State parliament. Validating legislation was before the South Australian Parliament recently. Victoria formally accepted on 19th March 1971. Validating State legislation is not required but the scheme is operative. In New South Wales as at 19th March, an agreement was to be drawn up and sent back to the New South Wales Premier for signature in that week. That is the stage reached. The estimate of financial requirements to 30th June 1971 is $3.25m for Queensland and $600,000 for Western Australia. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Yes. 
Details of subsidy payments in the United 
Kingdom for 1969-70 were as follows: - 
Operational subsidies in the white fish and herring subsidy schemes were paid on the basis of either an allowance per day at sea or on the quantity of fish landed. Fishing vessels that qualified for a per day at sea subsidy were: - 
white fish vessels of 35 feet to 59.9 feet in length which received a subsidy payment totalling £250 sterling or over in the base year 1968; 
white fish vessels of 60 feet to 79.9 feet; 
herring vessels of 35 feet to 39.9 feet which received £250 sterling or over in subsidy in 1968; 
all other herring vessels of 40 feet or over. 
For the period 1 August 1969 to 31 July 1970, the per day at sea subsidy varied between £3.10.0 sterling to £5.16.0 sterling. Vessels under 35 feet and white fish and herring vessels other than (i) and (iii) above were paid a subsidy on the basis of fish landed. The subsidy rate varied between 2) pence and 11 pence per stone (14lb.) 
Grants are provided for the purchase of fishing vessels or the improvement of existing vessels. During 1970, grants at the rate of forty per cent of the costs were provided for vessels under 80 feet in length and 35 per cent for other vessels. 
The Shipbuilding Act 1967 guarantees loans for all types of vessels over 100 gross tons built in United Kingdom shipyards. These are up to 55 per cent of approved contract values for fishing vessels. Provision also exists for loans for smaller fishing vessels from the White Fish Authority and the Herring Industry Board. 
In Japan, financial assistance to the fishing industry is complex and comprehensive. Provision  exists for subsidies for the improvement and development of coastal fishing grounds, subsidies to expedite the modernisation of coastal fisheries management, guaranteed loans and subsidies for the establishment of various distribution installations. More information on these schemes is available in a report recently released (Paris, 1971) by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development on financial support to the fishing industry by member countries. 
Direct subsidies are not paid to fishermen in Australia. The Government has preferred to assist the industry by making available funds for exploratory survey and research projects, and providing an extension service for the benefit of the different sectors of the industry. The shipbuilding subsidy is designed to assist the Australian shipbuilding industry but is limited to boats of 200 gross tons and over. Only in one instance has the Australian fishing industry been able to take advantage of such assistance. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
and (2) The Consultative Committee on Drought was established by the Australian Agricultural Council at its 77th Meeting (Mt Hagen, June 1970) to examine and report on problems involving inter-state, multi-State or CommonwealthState aspects of: 
drought relief 
drought rehabilitation 
drought mitigation 
encouragement of forms of land use and/or farm management practices that take account of the permanent risk of drought. 
other matters relevant to combatting drought or ameliorating its effects on rural industries. 
The Consultative Committee is comprised of representatives of State Departments of Agriculture and Primary Industries and interested Commonwealth authorities including Primary Industry, Treasury, Interior, National Development, CSIRO, Bureau of Agricultural Economics, Bureau of Meteorology and the Northern Territory Administration. Subject to the approval of the Standing Committee on Agriculture and Consultative Committee may consult with other bodies with competence in regard to drought problems. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answers to the honourable senator's question: 
It is assumed that this question refers to moneys available from the Fishing Industry Research Account, which was established under the Fishing Industry Research Act 1969. Under this Act the Commonwealth pays into an account an amount equal to that raised by the States from the fishing industry and paid by the States into their own fisheries research funds, which are used by the States to finance State projects. The Commonwealth fund which comprises the Commonwealth contribution only, is administered by the Minister for Primary Industry and is available to finance projects likely to make the most significant contribution to the Australian fishing industry. The first grants from this fund will be for the 1971-72 financial year. The Commonwealth's liability to the Fishing Industry Research Trust Account as at 30th June 1971 is expected to be about $492,000. 
As the first grants from the Fishing Industry Research Trust Account will be for the 1971- 72 financial year no moneys have yet been expended. 
Grants from the Fishing Industry Research Trust Account to the following organisations for 1971-72 have been approved on the recommendation of the Fishing Industry Research Committee: 
Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, Division of Fisheries and Oceanography and Division of Food Research - Research on the prawn fishery in northern Australian waters, and investigations into the factors affecting the quality of abalone and prawn products. 
Victorian Department of Fisheries and Wildlife - Research on the school and gummy shark fisheries of South Australia, Victoria, Tasmania and New South Wales; 
New South Wales State Fisheries, Chief Secretary's Department - Research on oyster cultivation in New South Wales waters. 
The Commonwealth Department of Primary Industry (on behalf of the Australian Fisheries Council) - training of fisheries officers; and conducting a National Fisheries Seminar. 
Western Australian Department of Fisheries and Fauna - Research on rock lobsters in West Australian waters. 
Western Australian Department of Fisheries and Fauna and the Western Australian Branch of the Australian Fishing Industry Council - Scholarships for fishery students. 
Further details on these projects and the amounts involved were given in a press release of 20th April 1971. 
The applications which were not recommended by the Fishing Industry Research Committee are as follows: 

 Mr A. G. Shanahan Moreton Bay, Queensland, Development of an oyster (spat) catching frame. 
Taronga Zoological Park Trust - New South Wales, Use of high volume pump for zoo plankton collection. 
New South Wales State Fisheries - Brackish water trout culture at Port Stephens. 
New South Wales State Fisheries - Investigation of latest developments in overseas aquaculture. 
University of New South Wales and the New South Wales State Fisheries - Raft culture of mussels in south east Australia. 
Ulladulla Fishermen's Co-operative - Survey of the potential of commercial fisheries in the Ulladulla area. 

 Mr K. Flynn Establishment of a prawn, oyster and crab farm at Cairns, Queensland. 
Oxley Regional Development Committee - Survey of the sportfishing potential of the Oxley Region of New South Wales. 
Victorian Department of Fisheries and Wildlife - Scallop culture in Port Phillip Bay. 
Tasmanian Department of Agriculture - Mariculture, research and development. 
The C. Hulls Co.- New South Wales, development of ferry-cement fishing boats. 
South Australian Department of Fisheries and Fauna Conservation and Adelaide University - Study of abalone ecology in South Australian waters. 
Tasmanian Department of Agriculture - Survey of pelagic fish resources. 
CSIRO Division of Food Research- Study visit to Europe by an officer of the Division. 
CSIRO Division of Fisheries and oceanography and Queensland Department of Primary Industries - Prawn research on Queensland's east coast. 
British Tobacco (Aust.) Ltd - Aquaculture of tiger prawns at Moreton Bay, Queensland. 
Queensland University - Study of Eastern Australian Flathead. 
Queensland University - Purchase of a trawler for research work. 

 Mr R. K.. Bryson Townsville, Queensland, Tropical oyster culture. 
Sevrup Fisheries Pty Ltd - Brackish water culture of trout and salmon at Bridport, Tasmania. 
Bermagui Fishermen's Co-operative - Survey of the scallop resources of the Bermagui area. 
The Hunter Valley Research Foundation - Study of fish marketing and potential in New South Wales. 
Queensland University - Study of invertebrates in Moreton Bay. 
Replying first to  Senator Cavanagh,  I do not have the information available to me here. I will have to obtain that information and supply it to him at a later date.  Senator Keeffe  referred to compensation for personal injury and damage to property, which is dealt with in item 08 of Division 694. This arises from a court action which is pending. I have endeavoured to give as much information as possible at this stage without going into details, and I am afraid that at this stage I cannot give any further information. We have been advised by our legal advisers that a case is coming up and we have to provide for it. That is as far as I can take this matter. 
The honourable senator sought information with respect to division 702, which relates to the purchase, manufacture and lease of aircraft and associated initial equipment. I mention first that we have lease charges for 24 Phantom aircraft and that the total cost of that project is S 16.986m. We are seeking $3.417m in the 1970-71 financial year, and because no amount was provided this involves an increased appropriation of $3.417m. The next item involves 97 Macchi aircraft in respect of which the total project cost is $70.6m. The Budget estimate was $5.354m and the new estimate is $6.873m, involving an increase of $1.5 19m. In respect of the 110 Mirages, the total project cost is S270m plus interest. The Budget estimate was $12.618m and the new estimate is 
S13.01m, an increase of $.392m. For the 6 Mirage 11 IDs the total project cost is $ 11.242m. In respect of this item there was no Budget estimate, but in the Additional Estimates $700,000 is sought. For 2 replacement helicopters the total project cost is $560,000. The Budget estimate was $560,000 and no additional appropriation was sought, so this involves a decrease of $560,000 because that money has not been spent. The total project cost for a further replacement aircraft is $ 1.024m; the Budget estimate was $ 1.024m. There was no additional estimate sought, so there is no increase or decrease on that item. That is the way in which the expenditure on this project was made up. 

 Senator KEEFFE (Queensland (4.5)  -  I still seek a little more information from the Minister in relation to division 694, item 08, which has now become famous. The Minister has said that he cannot discuss it because of legal implications or complications. I ask him whether he is able to indicate the names of the principals involved, the date on which the alleged happening took place and when the court hearing is likely to take place. I am sure that I am not infringing on legal grounds in any way. I think my friend  Senator Wright  would rule that I am not breaking any legal principles by simply asking for bare facts. 
 I would like to go back to Division 696 to answer a query  Senator Keeffe  raised with me earlier. It relates to an additional appropriation being sought by the Department of Air for rental of facilities at Butterworth including the hospital, the radar station and other facilities. It is a new item put into the additional Estimates at the direction of the Department of the Treasury. In other words, it is our share for this financial year of the rental of facilities at Butterworth. We were not aware of the cost at the time the Budget was brought down. Two matters were raised by  Senator Douglas  McClelland. He will realise that he had the benefit of correspondence which was in front of him. I did not have that advantage but I will most certainly take up this matter with the Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Holten)  and draw his attention to the points raised. The honourable senator asked earlier about a question on notice to the Minister for Repatriation. This appears to me to be more of a policy matter but is most definitely one that I will have to raise with the Minister to obtain some information for the honourable senator. 

 Senator KEEFFE (Queensland) (4.17&gt;I refer to that portion of the estimates for the Department of the Army which relates to the training of personnel at other Australian Army establishments. The appropriation for that item is $190,000. 
I wonder if  Senator Keeffe  might wait until my advisers can collect their papers. There has to be a changeover. 
I can inform the Minister that many of those houses are jerry built. I understand from an answer I received from the former Minister for the Army that to put concrete under the homes in this tropical climate would cost something like $450,000. Underneath these houses in summertime the surface is alternately a dustbowl and a quagmire. It is true, as was stated in evidence before the Committee previously, that the youngsters in these complexes invariably have to play in the street because in most instances there are no front fences to keep them in the front yard. I think the situation leaves much to be desired so I respectfully request that these very necessary improvements be carried out. I would remind the gentleman from the back bench who had a shot at me a while ago about having an opportunity to ask these questions during the sittings of the Estimates Committees that there are some 3 committees sitting at once. It is impossible for any senator to beat the meetings of all committees, and I suggest that if he has any more remarks of this nature he might keep them for the Government party room and try to organise the committee sittings in a much better way. 
 I think it would be fair to say that in all 3 Services it is recognised that the standard of some of the housing provided is not all that could be desired but I remind honourable senators that these houses are provided by the State housing commissions under the terms of the CommonwealthState Housing Agreement. Where there are some of the older type houses which do not meet the requirements of the Services we are endeavouring to get the newer type which do meet our requirements to replace them. But in some areas around Army camps, Air Forces bases and, no doubt, some Navy establishments, there is a shortage of houses and rather than not have any houses at all the Services are forced to use the sub-standard houses. Every endeavour is made to improve the situation. All 3 Services have placed submissions before the Kerr Committee pointing out the lack of good standard housing. On the other hand, the Services themselves are endeavouring to bring these houses up to a higher standard by providing fly screens and so on. Honourable senators can well imagine that this takes time and costs a lot of money. I recognise the honourable senator's complaint and I say that all 3 Services are endeavouring to overcome the problem. 
 I have noted  Senator Douglas  McClelland's remarks and will bring them to the attention of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair).  I suggest that  Senator Douglas  McClelland may mention them again when the Senate is dealing with the fishing Bills. Perhaps I can give him more information at that time. 

 Senator Keeffe drew my attention to the playing areas at Townsville. The information I have is that the Townsville City Council undertook to provide playing areas but the present indications are that because of shortage of funds available to the Council it will probably have difficulty in meeting its undertaking for some considerable time. However I understand that the question is currently being examined by the Department of Defence to see what action can be taken to improve the environment, particularly in relation to the playing areas at Townsville. 

 Senator Keeffe also referred to the Department of the Army, Division 664, item 13, Training of personnel at other than Australian Army establishments, $190,000. The information I have is that additional funds are required to meet the rescheduling of accounts to be received from the United Kingdom and United States government authorities. Accounts for these services are rendered at irregular intervals and it is not always possible to obtain proper information at the time the Budget is prepared. That is why this amount is set out in Appropriation Bill (No. 3). In regard to  Senator Lillico's  question, I do not have any information at the present time. I shall endeavour to obtain some for him. 
That information is being supplied. While another honourable senator is speaking to an item I shall obtain that information for the honourable senator. 
I am unable to give  Senator Keeffe  any information at the present time in relation to Division 410. - Administrative, Department of Primary Industry. I shall obtain that information for the honourable senator and let him have it. The honourable senator also referred to the Department of the Army, Division 664, item 15. Pensions to former servicemen in special circumstances, $1,400. The information I have is that that amount is to cover an additional act of grace payment approved after the Budget was prepared. Under the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund it is not possible legally to pay a pension in some cases. Where this occurs and where the case would otherwise have merited a pension from the DFRB Fund acts of grace payments are approved. Did the honourable senator understand that explanation? 
 Senator Keeffe  referred to Division 460, subdivision 2, item 06, Payment for services of Registrars, Police and officers of Postmaster-General's Department. I understand that these payments have always been in the Estimates. Again, Division 460, subdivision 2, item 07, Fares and expenses of war pensioners under review, has always been in the Estimates. In Division 464, item 01, Pensions and allowances for incapacitated ex-servicemen and their dependants,  Senator Keeffe  asked how much of the amount of $720,000 was brought about by amending legislation. The figure is $320,000. 
Schedule agreed to. 
Postponed clauses 1 to 4 - by leave - taken together, and agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported without requests; report adopted. 
I did see the report to which the honourable senator refers, and I obtained some information on it. Australia's shipments of beef and mutton to the United States of America this year are about 50,000 tons below those of last year. I understand that this is due to certain factors, the main ones being the unusual weather experienced in Queensland, the prohibition - now lifted - on mutton shipments to the United States of America, shipments of beef to the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, and the lower level of stocks carried forward this year compared with last year. I understand that the Aus tralian Meat Board and representatives of the meat export industry will meet in Sydney next Tuesday. They are meeting especially to review the position in relation to the United States of America. This meeting will examine the steps to be taken to ensure that the United States quota is filled. It is expected that Queensland meat works will be operating at peak capacity for the balance of this season, and from now on supplies should be much more plentiful. I can assure the honourable senator that urgent steps are being taken to ensure that sufficient abattoirs are licensed for export. I understand that to date 34 works,- including 2 works in South Australia, have been relisted to ship mutton to both the USA and Canada. 
I do not know whether the honourable senator's statement is correct. I do not know whether it is valid to compare auction prices in Australia with prices received for Australian mutton in the United States of America. I believe that the competition between the buyers in Australia should ensure' that producers receive a return that is in keeping with the supply and demand situation. The only thing I can add is that in- answer to a question recently I pointed out that to increase the demand representatives of the trade in New Zealand, Australia and the United States of America had decided to set- up a committee to, in effect, promote mutton by trade education and  consumer education in an effort to encourage the consumption of mutton. The only thing I can think of in this matter is that if we can build up the mutton trade we can then build up prices here. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Because of the depressed state of the wool market the Australian Wool Commission has purchased or has had passed-in to it fairly large quantities of wool as a result of its reserve price operations. Early in March of this year the Wool Commission commenced to make available for publication the percentage rate of its day-by-day purchases in wool auction rooms around Australia. For commercial reasons, however, it is the policy of the Commission not to release full details of its stocks of wool, nor of their purchase cost. 
In view of the unfavourable market conditions already referred to, the present policy of the Commission is not to resell wool from its stocks for the time being except where the types required are currently in short supply at auctions. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
The total amount paid in respect of the project as at 6th April 1971 is $US228.288m of which amount $US223.449m has been paid to the United States Government. 
The total amount still owing will depend on the outcome of the final decision regarding acceptance or otherwise of the aircraft Final costing for some elements of the project is still to be the subject of discussion and agreement between the United States and the Commonwealth. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answers to the honourable senator's question: 
It is assumed that this question refers to moneys available from the Fishing Industry Research Account, which was established under the Fishing Industry Research Act 1969. Under this Act the Commonwealth pays into an account an amount equal to that raised by the States from the fishing industry and paid by the Stales into their own fisheries research funds, which are used by the States to finance State projects. The Commonwealth fund which comprises the Commonwealth contribution only, is administered by the Minister for Primary Industry and is available to finance projects likely to make the most significant contribution to the Australian fishing industry. The first grants from this fund will be for the 1971-72 financial year. The Commonwealth's Lability to the Fishing Industry Research Trust Account as at 30th June 1971 is expected to be about $492,000. 
As the first grants from the Fishing Industry Research Trust Account will be for the 1971- 72 financial year no moneys have yet beenexpended. 
Grants from the Fishing Industry Research Trust Account to the following organisations for 1971-72 have been approved on the recommendation of the Fishing Industry Research Committee: 
Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, Division of Fisheries and Oceanography and Division of Food Research - Research on the prawn fishery in northern Australian waters, and investigations into the factors affecting the quality of abalone and prawn products. 
Victorian Department of Fisheries and Wildlife - Research on the school and gummy shark fisheries of South Australia, Victoria, Tasmania and New South Wales; 
New South Wales State Fisheries, Chief Secretary's Department - Research on oyster cultivation in New South Wales waters; The Commonwealth Department of Primary Industry (on behalf of the Australian Fisheries Council) - Training of fisheries officers; and conducting a National Fisheries Seminar. 
Western Australian Department of Fisheries and Fauna - Research on rock lobsters in West Australian waters. 
Western Australian Department of Fisheries and Fauna and the Western Australian Branch of the Australian Fishing Industry Council - Scholarships for fishery students. 
Further details on these projects and the amounts involved were given in a Press release on 20th April 1971. 
The applications which were not recommended by the Fishing Industry Research Committee are as follows: 

 Mr A. G. Shanahan Moreton Bay, Queensland, development of an oyster (spat) catching frame. 
Taronga Zoological Park Trust - New South Wales, use of high volume pump for zoo plankton collection. 
New South Wales State Fisheries - Brackish water trout culture at Port Stephens. 
New South Wales State Fisheries - Investigation of latest developments in overseas aquaculture. 
University of New South Wales and the New South Wales State Fisheries - Raft culture of mussels in south east Australia. 
Ulladulla Fishermen's Co-operative - Survey of the potential of commercial fisheries in the Ulladulla area. 

 Mr K. Flynn Establishment of a prawn, oyster and crab farm at Cairns, Queensland. 
Oxley Regional Development Committee - Survey of the sportfishing potential of the Oxley Region of New South Wales. 
Victorian Department of Fisheries and Wildlife - Scallop culture in Port Phillip Bay. 
Tasmania", Department of Agriculture - Martculture research and development. 
The C. Hulls Co.- New South Wales, development of ferro-cement fishing boats. 
South Australian Department of Fisheries .and Fauna Conservation and Adelaide University - Study of abalone ecology in South Australian waters. 
Tasmanian Department of Agriculture - Survey of pelagic fish resources. 
CSIRO Division of Food Research- Study visit to Europe by an officer of the Division. 
CSIRO Division of Fisheries and Oceanography and Queensland Department of Primary Industries - Prawn research on Queensland's east coast. 
British Tobacco (Aust.) Ltd - Aquaculture of tiger prawns at Moreton Bay, Queensland. 
Queensland University - Study of Eastern Australian Flathead. 
Queensland University - Purchase of a trawler for research work. 

 Mr R. K. Bryson Townsville Queensland Tropical oyster culture. 
Sevrup Fisheries Pty Ltd - Brackish water culture of trout and salmon at Bridport, Tasmania. 
Bermagui Fishermen's Co-operative - Survey of the scallop resources of the Bermagui area. 
The Hunter Valley Research Foundation - Study of fish marketing and potential in New South Wales. 
Queensland University - Study of invertibrates in Moreton Bay. 
-I think all of us would be aware of the situation prevailing in this area and most of us would be aware that the Premier of Queensland has made a number of representations to the Federal Government. I can recall that in 2 instances the Federal Government has given assistance to this area. I do not have any detail other than that but if further information should be available I shall let the honourable senator have it. 
At the present time I do not have any details of the matter referred to. I will approach the Minister for Primary Industry and see what information I can obtain. Perhaps it would be best if the honourable member put the question on notice and I will obtain the information for him in that way. 
The 
Minister for Repatriation did receive representations from ex-servicemen's associations including the Returned Services League. I know that he has received the papers presented by the RSL. I am also aware of the resolution of the Senate to which he referred. I can assure the honourable senator that at all times the Department of Repatriation keeps under thorough examination the needs of exservicemen and does its best within the limits of its finances. I will draw the Minister's attention to the question asked by the honourable senator. If any further information is available, I will let him have it. 
Pursuant to section 26 of the Tobacco Marketing Act 1965-1966, I present the fifth Annual report of the Australian Tobacco Board regarding the operation of the Act for the year ended 31st December 1970, together with financial statements and the AuditorGeneral's report ob those statements. 
Pursuant to section 12 of the Marginal Dairy Farms Agreements Act 1970, I present a copy of an agreement made between the Commonwealth and the State of Victoria in relation to the marginal dairy farms reconstruction scheme 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This is a short Bill of only 4 clauses. Its purpose is to provide parliamentary approval for the execution on behalf of the Commonwealth of an agreement between the Commonwealth and the States for a rural reconstruction scheme and to appropriate funds for grants to the States for carrying out the scheme. The details of the scheme are set out in the agreement which is contained in a schedule to the Bill and in a schedule to the agreement. The agreement provides for the expenditure of $100m over 4 years. This scheme is one of a series of measures designed to help meet a crisis situation in the rural industries and particularly the sheep and sheep-wheat industries. However, no agricultural industry is excluded from the scheme except for farm build up cases eligible under the marginal dairy farms reconstruction scheme. It is recognised that in respect of farm build up the particular circumstances of some industries such as the horticultural industries may need additional consideration of their special problems. These will be looked at separately. 
At the present time the price of wool is averaging about 30c per pound greasy. This is the lowest level wool prices have reached for 23 years. Receipts by the wool industry fell by nearly$100m between 1968-69 and 1969-70, giving rise to the necessity for the emergency financial assistance scheme for wool growers introduced late in 1970. This was intended as a short term measure which it was recognised would help only a proportion of the cases of financial hardship caused by the fall in prices. Returns for 1970-71 could be down a further $170m. They would have been lower still if it had not been for the operation of the Wool Commission. A Bureau of Agricultural Economics survey in 1966- 67- a reasonably good year for the wool industry - indicated that some 20 per cent' of wool growers in Australia had net farm incomes of less than $2,000 per annum to cover servicing of their debts and living expenses. Today that percentage has doubled. The decline in actual receipts by the industry over the last 2 years is the major element of the economic problem of the industry. A further important fact has been the decline in expectations about the industry's future profitability. The immediate capital loss that this has involved in revaluation of wool producing assets, including sheep, could well amount to over $2,000m. In this situation the servicing of existing debt and the raising of new credit for continued operation have for a substantial part of the industry become problems of considerable gravity. 
The industry's outstanding debt has increased from $980m in 1966-67 to about $ 1,200m today. Net income calculations for the wool industry can only be approximate but with the fall in wool prices, drought in some areas, and a decline in wheat incomes not offset by improved beef returns, the industry's net farm income in total has probably fallen from some $760m in 1966-67 to about $450m in 1969-70 and to $290m in the current year. The debt position has moved in consequence from one where debt represented something like 11/3 times net farm income in the industry in 1966-67 to 2i times in 1969-70 and about 4 times in 1970-71. In the current year about one-third of the industry's average net farm income of some $3,000 per property is required simply to meet interest payments on existing debt. 
With the combination of a substantial loss of income in each of 2 successive years, a substantial decline in capital values, and .little expectation that with likely price and cost trends profitability will recover to earlier levels, the industry is in a critical position and a particularly critical situation in the immediate short term. I am talking,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  about Australia's largest rural export industry, lt is an industry on which this country has depended very greatly for foreign exchange. The export of wool will earn in the current year almost S600m. Even though this is some $400m less than in 1963-64, the peak year since 1950-51, wool remains the single largest export commodity and accounts for about 15 per cent of the total export income. Australia may no longer wholly ride on the sheep's back, but the wool industry continues to be of major importance to our economy. 
It is also of major social importance to the Australian community. There are some 89,000 wool growers running flocks of 200 sheep or more. It is a major contributor to the well-being and way of life of the majority of our country districts. Whole communities depend on it. We cannot contemplate a situation in which the forces against which we bave been working but which seem to encourage a continual movement of people from country areas to the already overcrowded cities are accelerated by a mass exodus of wool growers because their properties have become unprofitable and they have reached the end of their credit resources. This has arisen in part because of drought; in part because of rising costs; in part because of a disatrous and unexpected fall in wool prices; and in part because of loss of confidence in the industry by some lenders. 
There seems no escape from the unpalatable fact that there will have to be a substantial restructuring of our rural industries. There is reason for hope that wool prices will recover from the present drastically low levels. It would be unwise to assume that the extent of the recovery will be sufficient to permit the servicing of all debts contracted when property values and investment in property improvement reflected the profitability which did exist in the industry before the effects of the cost price squeeze began to produce the difficulties which are only too apparent today. 
The wool industry is a very large industry. The solution to its problems put forward by some people is the apparently easy way of providing price support. In round terms each lc per pound in price support would cost the taxpayer $20m per annum. There are some producers whose costs and debt structure is such that they would need price support in excess of 20c per pound above present price levels in order to meet their commitments. The burden on the Budget of a price support scheme of the magnitude required would be enormous. Apart from this it is essential for the health of the industry that it should not be fully insulated from the effects of changes in demand as reflected in price. The approach that has been adopted after an expert examination by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics and after extensive discussions between the Commonwealth and State Minister most directly concerned is represented by the agreement set out in this Bill. 
The rural reconstruction scheme provides for assistance by way of debt reconstruction, farm build-up, and rehabilitation of those obliged to leave the industry where this is necessary to alleviate conditions of personal hardship. A complementary scheme to provide retaining assistance to farmers obligated to leave the industry is being formulated by the Department of Labour and National Service and the Department of Primary Industry in consultation with State authorities. Details of this scheme will be announced as soon as practicable. 
To obtain debt reconstruction assistance an applicant must be unable to obtain finance to carry on and thus be in danger of losing his property or other assets if he is not provided with assistance. Debt reconstruction assistance may involve a rearrangement or a composition of debts to allow more time for payment. The authority may advance money for repayment of a proportion of the debts and for carry on expenses, livestock and further property development. Such advances may be for up to 20 years and the authority is required to ensure that the interest rate on 
Commonwealth money advanced under the scheme will average 4 per cent per annum. 
The farm build-up provisions are intended to encourage amalgamation of properties which are too small to be economic under today's conditions. Finance may be provided either to the owner of an uneconomic property to buy adjoining land to build up his property or to an adjoining owner to enable him to purchase an uneconomic farm. Grants may be made at the discretion of the authority to cover, in whole or in part, losses sustained in the disposal of assets included in the purchase price of the property which are not useful for the built-up property. Advances may be made for carry on expenses, plant, livestock and property development in respect of the additional land where finance is not available from other sources. The interest rate for farm build-up advances on Commonwealth money is  6i  per cent per annum. 
 In considering interest rates it is as well to keep in mind that the aim of. the scheme is. to assist people who have prospects of becoming commercially viable. There must be an expectation that the farmer will in due course be able to service credit provided to him. on normal commercial terms. It is not realistic to admit to the scheme cases which require the bridging of too large a gap between the terms provided under the scheme and normal commercial terms. In order to ensure that the scheme has the widest possible effect in encouraging sound permanent restructuring of the industry, the general objective is that half of the funds will be applied to farm build-up. This will supplement funds available for farm build-up from other sources. In this connection I am pleased that the Government has arranged with the Development Bank to extend its operations to include lending for property purchase for build-up purposes and advances will be made by the Government to the Bank for this purpose. 

 Mr Acting Deputy President, such is the condition of the rural industries at present that there are many cases where producers are in financial difficulty and will not be able to satisfy the requirement that they have prospects of commercial viability. It is the natural wish of many people to continue in a way of life which they know and like and may have followed for many years. But while recognising the contribution these producers make in earning export income the Government must attempt to balance the real cost of resources used in gaining those earnings in devising measures of assistance to export industries. Carry on finance may alleviate immediate financial pressure for a limited period but if the result is a lot of additional hard work and worry and a still larger debt around the producer's neck, it may not be worthwhile.. This is not a policy of 'get big or get out'; It is not a policy Of forcing people off the land. It is a policy of concentrating the assistance that is available on those cases which have the best hope of weathering, the present adverse, circumstances and recovering to a sound financial position in the longer term. 
In the application of the funds that are available the aim is to help producers. The aim is not to displace private credit and it is not- to relieve creditors of the consequences of commercial judgments which they have made. The Government is conscious that the present times are difficult, not only for producers but also for institutional and other lenders. It asks that creditors will be forebearing and co-operate with the reconstruction, authorities and the producers in a combined effort to retain in the industry as many producers as can possibly be placed on a sound basis and to avoid precipitate or disruptive action in the difficult times which the rural industries are facing. For those who are obliged to leave the land because they do not qualify for rural reconstruction and who need retraining, this will be available under the scheme to which I have referred. For those who are obliged to leave and who face financial hardship, modest assistance for rehabilitation in the form of an advance of up to $1,000 may be provided by the reconstruction authority. 
The course of wool prices in the future is of course uncertain. There are, however, grounds for believing that present price levels are unduly low and that there will be some recovery in the coming months. There is the case of the producer falling in between on the one hand those who on the present market outlook for wool do not need assistance or would be eligible to receive assistance under the debt reconstruction or farm build-up provisions of the scheme, and on the other hand those who, even with a significant improvement in wool prices, are beyond prospects of recovery because their costs are too high or their debts too large. These are people who, if their cases are judged on the present market outlook, would have to leave the industry. If wool prices, subsequently recover they may have left unnecessarily - they may have been able to return to profitability, if they had. been assisted to remain. With this in mind, the States have suggested that perhaps this . proposed reconstruction scheme needs to be supplemented in some way, or even radically, reviewed to accommodate- these cases. However, the States have accepted that at least this scheme should be implemented in its present form in order . that . this new. financial assistance may be provided immediately and without delay. Future needs can then be assessed in the light of experience and the further knowledge gained. 
As I have said, this rural reconstruction scheme - has bees formulated in consultation with the State Governments. The' problems with which it seeks to deal are regarded as the joint responsibility of the Commonwealth and the States. The Commonwealth will provide funds to the States to carry out the scheme. The States have agreed to administer the scheme and bear their own administration costs. The Commonwealth offered the States the sum of $l00m over 4 years for the scheme as a loan at an interest rate of 3 per cent per annum. At the request of the States an alternative offer was made and this was that $75m should be provided as a loan bearing interest at 6 per cent per annum with the remaining $25m being a nonrepayable grant. 
There is a margin between the amounts the States would receive if they lent half of the money for debt reconstruction assistance at 4 per cent per annum and the other half for farm build-up at 6£ per cent per annum and the amount the States will be obliged to repay the Commonwealth. The margin is intended to cover normal losses in lending under the scheme and write-offs under the farm build-up provisions. If the States incur losses from circumstances beyond their control the agreement provides that the Commonwealth will review the position with a view to adjusting the States' repayment obligations to the extent of such losses. Importantly the agreement provides for the operation of the scheme to be reviewed from time to time and for the review to include the funds to be provided for the scheme, the allocation of the funds between the States, the provisions for losses and writeoffs, the interest rates to be charged to borrowers,' and the proportion of financial assistance', applied to farm build-up. 
There will be regular exchanges ofinformation between the States and the Commonwealth on the operation and effectiveness of the scheme. Perhaps there are. sortie who will criticise the provision of special assistance to the rural industries oil the grounds that comparable assistance is not provided to other industries outside the primary sector. If so, let me say that it' is an undeniable fact that wool growers have provided over many decades benefits to the country as the mainstay of export income without any form of price support or stabilisation plan. There will no doubt be a majority who will feel that wool growers should now, when costs and prices have turned against them, be assisted purpose-, fully to meet the difficulties which face them. 
The Government has had to make its own judgment, after consultation with the States, on what is feasible having regard to the many other demands made upon its resources and having regard to the unavoidable necessity for adjustments in the industry to meet the changes in its circumstances that have occurred. I believe that the measures provided for in this Bill are sound in their conception and practical in their application. I trust that the Senate will take note of the very difficult financial problems which face rural industry and in particular the wool industry at the present time and will support assistance to these industries as provided for in the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Wilkinson)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
The Royal Australian Air Force does not conduct patrols of the Australian coastline in order to detect oil spills. However, the RAAF carries out numerous operations off the coastline and any large oil spills sighted by RAAF crews during these operations would normally be reported. 
This is obviously a matter of policy. I suggest that the honourable senator place the question on notice. 
Fill AIRCRAFT 
I have seen the report to which the honourable senator refers. If I recall correctly,  Senator Sim  asked me a similar question some weeks ago. The general answer I gave him at that time was no. But this account of the transactions in New South Wales has been so continuous that I have made inquiries into it. The information sought has not come to hand, but I say to the honourable senator that if this alleged practice continues it could be of drastic consequence to the whole quota system for wheat production in Australia. 
I have seen the reports to which the honourable senator has referred. I have not had a chance to examine in detail the individual complaints. There is a shortage of firemen in the Royal Australian Air Force. Because of this it is necessary at times to have these men on stand by duty. This has been particularly so at Edinburgh because of the recent flying display there and the Royal visit. Those were 2 big occasions which involved Edinburgh Air Force base in recent weeks. If a serviceman works more than 8 hours overtime or on a public holiday he is generally given a day off in lieu. This, of course, is at the discretion of the command officer. There may be some demand for these men to work overtime but still not get a day off because of the heavy work load at that time. It is not the practice to pay overtime in the Air Force. Instead, the holiday in lieu system is used. I will have a look at the situation and will give the honourable senator what information I can after I have examined it in detail. 
I would not know whether the honourable member mentioned by the honourable senator would be going to China, and if he were going to China I would not know in what capacity he would go unless it was as a private citizen. I think the honourable senator knows that the Australian Wheat Board has the sole responsibility for selling the Australian crop. In this respect the Board has made a particularly good effort over recent years. This is borne out by the fact that in the last 3 months the Board has sold more than 3 million tons of wheat, which is a record for any quarter. 
As I said, this was a record for any quarter. I can well understand the Board's feeling with this experience and this effort behind it when mischievous people for then- own political gain try to disrupt or make it difficult for the Wheat Board to make overseas sales. 
The position is as the honourable senator states in his question. These blocks have now been surrendered. Approval has been given for such vacant blocks to be offered to the war service land settlers for purchase at reserve prices fixed by the Government. Full details of the conditions of sale are not known at the present time but I understand that shortly the Department of Lands in South Australia will announce them, r also understand that the settlers will be given the first option to buy the vacant blocks. 
I would not use the word 'cancellation' although I recognise that if a visit is put off it is cancelled. But following the economic measures implemented in February the Department of Repatriation has increased, of necessity, the length of time between visits to various centres throughout New South Wales, and in fact throughout Australia, by its departmental officers. Under a system which was instituted by the Repatriation Department, officers tour country areas at certain times of the year to explain to the Department's clients some of the various benefits that are available to them. This service has become very popular with ex-servicemen in general. How ever, although the visit mentioned by the honourable senator was cancelled, he may expect a visit in the future, although the time between visits might be a little longer. Any other centre that might have had visits put off may be assured it will get a visit in due course from the Department. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has supplied the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
and (2) The amendment was one of those introduced at the request of the State egg boards which collect the hen levy on behalf of the Commonwealth. The boards sought this amendment because they felt that there should be a clear provision in the Act whereby the keeping of records could be prescribed in the event of a significant number of producers claiming that they did not keep records. In view of the fact that the great majority of producers do in fact keep records in various ways and make these records available to persons authorised by the Minister, and in order to avoid placing a statutory burden on producers to fill in further forms, regulations have not been made under the 1966 amendment to compel them to keep records. 
Should any significant number of producers fail to keep records consideration will be given to making an appropriate regulation. The absence of complete records in no way affects a producer's liability to pay the henlevy. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has supplied the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
No. 
There have been several reports from varied sources which have referred to the large grain crop in Mainland China and, as  a  consequence, the likely reduced demand for wheat from that country. 
From recent statements made in Parliament it will be well known that no official or authoritative advice has been received of the Chinese buying intentions. 
I would comment only that if China needs to import wheat there are factors in Australia's favour. They include the fact that there have long been friendly commercial relations between the Chinese purchasing authority and the legally constituted marketing authority for Australian wheat, the Australian Wheat Board. In addition the quality of Australian wheat shipped to China has been very acceptable to the buyers, while the terms and conditions of sale have also met their requirements. 
The Minister lor Primary Industry has furnished the following answer to the honour* able senator's question: 
I have seen several press versions of the statement made by the  President  of the Australian Wheat Growers' Federation  (Mr. L. V. Price)  to which the Honourable  Senator has  referred. Only one of these - the 'Australian' of 21st April - claimed that  Mr. Price  named the major political parties. The other reports that I have seen made no such claims. 

 Mr. Price has given me his assurance that at no time did he mention any political party by name in the course of making the statement under reference and that the 'Australian' report is incorrect on that account. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
As with any other primary industry the objective of the dairy industry should be to gear its production to a level that can be disposed of satisfactorily. 
The Government's financial arrangements for the dairy industry for 1970-71 were based on production levels  of  220,000 tons for butter and 70,000 tons for cheese and it is disappointing that due to poor seasonal conditions, Australia has been unable to fulfil its United Kingdom butter quota for 1970-71 and to take full advantage of opportunities offering in other markets due to the sudden change in the world market situation for dairy products. 
On 16th March 1971  Senator Bishop  asked me the following question: 
In directing my question to the Minister for Air I refer to the incident yesterday near Newcastle when a pilot of the Royal Australian Air Force ejected from a Sabre jet aircraft and was forced to remain in a leaky dinghy for 2 hours. Was this due to the accident, faulty equipment or poor inspection at the base? 
I now givethe honourable senator the following reply: 
The Court of Inquiry convened to investigate this accident has found that the aircraft was lost after the pilot inadvertently entered a spin and failed to regain control before being forced to eject to save his life. During the spin and ejection gravity forces caused the carbon dioxide bottle within the ejection seat survival pack to be forced against the side of the dinghy, inflicting a small cut which resulted in a loss of air after the landing. 
Defects of this nature are extremely difficult to detect because ground simulation of such unusual flight conditions is virtually impossible. However, to prevent a recurrence of this type of incident, the metal portions of the bottles are to be encased in rubber. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe Treasurer has provided the following answer to the question without notice that  Senator Donald  Cameron asked me on 1st April 1971 concerning Commonwealth superannuation pensions: 
Commonwealth superannuation pensions were last increased by the Superannuation (Pension Increases) Act 1967, which was assented to on 8 November 1967. Under that Act the Commonwealth's share of each pension in existence at 30 June 1967 was increased to the amount that it would have been had retirement occurred on that date. An appropriate proportion of the increase was paid if the pension at retirement was less than it would have been had all entitlements been taken up. lt is the practice of the Government to review regularly the level of Commonwealth superannuation pensions. A further review will be made during the formulation of the 1971-72 Budget. 
On 31st March last  Senator Milliner  asked whether I would table details of the use of VIP aircraft by Commonwealth Ministers for the period 1st January 1971 to 28th February 1971 inclusive. I informed the Senate that I would take details of all VIP flights from the period covered by the previous tabling of such details up to the 28th February 1971. The list attached to the document I am tabling contains details of all VIP nights by the Royal Australian Air Force for the period 1st October 1970 to 28th February 1971. The document which I now table embraces all details of approved applications for VIP travel and has been reconciled against the relevant flight manifests. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to enable the Commonwealth Government to guarantee the repayment of loans and the payment of interest on amounts that may be borrowed by the Australian Wool Board for the construction and equipping of integrated wool selling complexes. An amendment to the Wool Industry Act last year authorised the Wool Board to establish or encourage the establishment, where appropriate, of integrated wool selling complexes, and empowered the Board to borrow for these purposes, subject to the approval of the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  and the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair). 
The principal aim of establishing wool selling complexes is to have a well laid out building which incorporates the most modern mechanised wool handling and recording equipment for the common use by wool selling brokers to enable the most efficient and speedy movement of wool into store, within store and but of store to the ship. The amendment made to the Act last year allows the Board either to finance the construction and equipping of complexes by industry interests or to construct and equip the complexes itself: The Board will only adopt the latter course if the wool trade, including wool selling brokers, wishes it to do so. In financing the construction of complexes, the Board will ensure that woolgrowers receive a fair share of the savings arising from the construction of the complexes. If the Wool Board undertakes the construction of complexes itself, it will act solely as a landlord and rent the complexes  to " wool selling brokers and others concerned in the presale handling of wool, its sale and preparation for shipment. The rentals charged by. the Board would be sufficient only to cover costs, payment of interest and repayment of loans. 
The Wool Board is anxious to keep the cost of erecting complexes as low as possible and in this regard an important component of cost is the interest which would have to be paid on borrowings. It follows that if the Board can obtain lower interest rates by having a Government guarantee, the cost of constructing complexes would be lower and hence a greater benefit would flow to woolgrowers. At the present time 3 Sydney brokers are building wool selling facilities at Yennora in the western suburbs of Sydney. It is understood that the other Sydney brokers are now also willing to move to Yennora. To date development at Yennora has been wholly financed by the 3 brokers themselves, but the Wool Board has been collaborating closely in the planning. The facilities at present under construction at Yennora are so designed as to be capable of being developed into a fully integrated complex. The Yennora project will be breaking new ground in the field of wool handling. In the circumstances, the benefits which will flow from it to the various sections of the industry will be watched with considerable interest and will, no doubt, influence decisions on the establishment of integrated wool selling complexes in other centres. 
Studies undertaken by the Wool Board as well as by wool selling brokers demonstrate that an integrated wool selling complex at Yennora offers good prospects of important cost savings in wool handling in Sydney. The possible introduction of pre;sale objective measurement of wool and sale by sample carries important implications for future wool handling' procedures. The application of pre-sale : objective measurement and sale by sample is at present being subjected to a series of trials. This has been made possible ' by a grant of $1.5m by the Commonwealth Government. It seems fairly certain, : however, that presale objective measurement and sale by sample will play ah important role in the future in the disposal of the Australian woo] clip. Any proposal- for borrowing by the Australian Wool ..Board, in connection with wool selling ' complexes must be approved ' by the ' Minister for. Primary Industry and the Treasurer. The Government will, of course, ensure that any problems which might affect 'the viability of such a proposal have been fully, resolved before approval is given for the Wool Board to ' proceed. The Wool Board is anxious to be in a position to facilitate the development of integrated wool selling complexes where they can be justified on the grounds of increased, efficiency and cost savings. The amendments which are the subject of the Bill will help the Board to achieve this objective. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Wilkinson)  adjourned. 
The Leader of the Opposition is dealing with 2 Bills. The first Bill we dealt with is based on the commerce power; this second Bill is based on the taxation power of the Commonwealth. 
An amount of $150,000 is expected to be raised from the producers themselves. The Commonwealth will match this amount, which means that a total of $300,000 is expected to be raised annually. 
I understand that the industry requested this kind of research. I think I made the point in the second reading speech that the industry, through its organisations in the States and through its Federal body, came to the Government with a plan. That plan had been before the State governments and the Australian Agricultural Council and had found favour and agreement with all those bodies. Under this Bill, for every $1 that the producers raise they receive $2 for research purposes - their own Si plus a matching SI from the Commonwealth Government. The Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation gets part of its funds from the Treasury. The remainder of the funds will come from the 9 industry research committees that will be operating when these 3 Bills come into operation. 
Clauses agreed to. 
Remainder of Bill - by leave - taken as a whole, and agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
in reply - I thank the Senate for the passage that it has given to the Bill. Although no senator has opposed the Bill, 3 speakers have used it as a vehicle by which to express their views about the seeking of approval for the payment of$US48m to the International Development Association. I shall draw the attention of the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  to their remarks. I suggest that we proceed with the second reading of the Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
I am advised that the matter  of  pigs that are slaughtered for consumption intrastate does not arise in this case because the levy is imposed under the taxation power of the Commonwealth. The only question that really arises is whether the tax or levy is imposed uniformly on pig producers throughout the Commonwealth. 
 I understand that the power comes from the interstate trade and commerce provision of the Constitution. The levy will be, of course, something that is common to all producers in each State. 
A levy is to be imposed for the purpose of raising funds for research. The Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation will have a representative on the Research Committee. It will be one of the bodies whose suggestions will be taken notice of by the Research Committee. 
I have not seen the advertisement to which the honourable senator has referred, but I should think that the person who placed the advertisement in that newspaper would have to continue to advertise to get a response because anyone who is thinking about investing in primary industry these days will know that there is not very much profit to be made. I should think that somebody who wants to claim a deduction when he knows a profit is doubtful would want to do a fair bit of investigating of the matter first. However, I will take the matter up with the Minister for Primary Industry and see whether he has any information to make available to the honourable senator. 
I well recall the time that the honourable member has referred to when Australia's production of butter was 220,000 tons. The basis of the new guarantee given to the dairying industry was that if the industry maintained production to around that amount for the coming year the Government assured the industry of 34c per lb in commercial butter. In the intervening period Australia's production of butter has slipped and the present indications are that production for this year will be about 205,000 tons. The situation in Britain is that in recent months there have been continual increases in the price of butter - so much so that it is now £Stg 420 a ton. This has been brought about by the poor season in Bri tain and Europe and the depletion of the stockpile in the European Economic Community. Until the new season commences in Britain there will be a shortage of butter. So the situation has changed greatly since the time referred to by the honourable senator. I will make some inquiries and if I have some further information to give to the honourable senator I will do so. 
The Minister for Primary Industryhas provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
I am aware that from time to time individual people may have difficulty in obtaining specific brands of polyunsaturated margarine in their local shops but I have not received representations from consumers, shopkeepers or distributors generally in any State about a shortage of polyunsaturated margarine. 
A check made on Friday, 30th April 1971 revealed ample supplies of a number of brands of polyunsaturated margarine in the major food stores in Canberra. 
I move: 
That  the Bill be now  read a  second time.  The purpose of this Bill is to provide financial assistance to the State of Victoria in order that the State can assist the Shepparton Preserving Co. Ltd in the matter of the company's payments to growers for fruit delivered to the company. Honourable senators will be aware from public reports of the extent of the difficulties that the company has encountered over the last 2 years, extending to the company's inability to finance in full payments to growers for fruit delivered in the 1970 season. Since the company is a major fruit cannery in the Shepparton region these difficulties, without some degree of alleviation, would have serious consequences for the stability of the industry, the welfare of growers and the welfare of the Shepparton area generally. 
In these circumstances, the Government of Victoria approached the Commonwealth Government for financial assistance, and the Commonwealth Government acceded to the request. The agreement between the Commonwealth and the State relating to the provision of this assistance and the terms of repayment is set out in the Schedule to the Bill. Clauses 3 and 4 of the Bill, and the agreement, have a retrospective application to the 31st December last year. It was at that point of time that a crisis siuation had developed in the affairs of the company in respect of payments to growers. To meet this, and following urgent representations from the Victorian Government, the Commonwealth Government made available to the State at that stage $4m of the agreed assistance. I note from recent public statements by the company authorities that, despite the losses of the last 2 years, the directors anticipate an early return to profitable trading. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Poyser)  adjourned. 
 in reply - I thank honourable senators for supporting these Bills. I want to take a few moments to reply to the questions posed by them. The proposal for a research scheme was put forward by the Australian Commercial Pig Producers Federation. This is the only federal body or organisation for the pig industry. Producers from all States are represented. It consists of 6 State councils. On the New South Wales council there are representatives of organisations such as the Australian Pig Society, New South Wales branch, the Australian Primary Producers Union, the North Coast Pig Producers and Research Council, The United Farmers and Woolgrowers Association, and the Pig Producers Co-operative. Through amalgamation of their organisations, the Australian Primary Producers Union and the United Farmers and Woolgrowers Association have become one body. The old APPU organisation has joined with the United Farmers and Woolgrowers Association. Those bodies are affiliated with the Australian Wool and Meat Producers Federation and the Australian Commercial Pig Producers Association. I will refer again to that situation when I deal with the set-up in Victoria. 
In Victoria in the old days we had the Victorian Dairy Farmers Association and the Austraiian Pig Producers Society of Victoria. We then had representation from the APPU and the United Farmers and Woolgrowers Association. Although the APPU and the United Farmers and Woolgrowers Association came together as the Victorian Farmers Union and are affiliated with the Australian Wool and Meat Producers Federation, that body is not affiliated with the Australian Commercial Pig Producers Federation. There have been affiliations involving the APPU in both New South Wales and Victoria but there is a difference between the 2 States. In Queensland we had the Queensland Dairymen's Organisation and the Pig Industry Producers Association.  Senator Milliner  asked what had happened to the representatives that were associated with the APPU. The APPU organisation in Queensland did not affiliate with any body. Its members drifted away and became members of the Pig Industry Producers Association in their own right. That organisation now has representation on the Queensland State Council. In Western Australia the Farmers Union was formed some years ago as an amalgamation of the Wheat and Woolgrowers Association and the Wheatgrowers Union. There was no APPU representation in that State. Members of those bodies still form part of the Council in Western Australia, together with the Australian Pig Society. In Tasmania we have the Tasmanian Farmers Federation and the Australian Pig Society. 
Each of those councils is able to send 2 delegates to the Australian Commercial Pig Producers Federation. In Victoria there is a domestic problem. Every effort has been made by the Victorian Council to have the Pig Division of the Victorian Farmers Union affiliated with the Council. The report of the annual conference in 1970 of the Victorian Dairy Farmers Association stated: 
The Victorian Council has without success repeatedly invited the Victorian Farmers Union, which is not affiliated with the Council or the Australian Commercial Pig Producers Federation, to join it so as to make possible full representation in the Federation, through the Council, of all organised commercial pig producers in Victoria. 

 Senator Webster said that 7 of the 12 members of the Commercial Pig Producers Federal council, are stud pig breeders. I do not see anything strange about this. I think this would be normal practice. Anyone who knows the pig industry would agree that a large number of stud breeders also run commercial herds. The various organisations within a State make up the Council in that State and that Council elects 2 members to the Federal Council, be they stud breeders, commercial breeders or stud breeders with commercial herds as well. It is up to each State organisation to see that it gets the representation it wants on the federal body by appointing a man who is purely a commercial breeder or a man who breeds some pigs and runs a commercial herd. 
The last matter to which I wish to refer is the part to be played by the Pig Industry Research Committee and how it is to be comprised. I think  Senator Little  raised this matter. The Research Committee will include 6 representatives from the Australian Commercial Pig Producers Federation. These representatives will be elected by the Federation itself. They will be either commercial or stud breeders, depending on who the Federation elects. There will be 2 representatives from the 
Australian Agricultural Council. These representatives are generally officers of the State departments of agriculture. One representative will be from the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation. A representative of the universities will be also on the Committee. He will be elected by the vice-chancellors of the universities of Australia. I understand that there are about 14 vice-chancellors throughout Australia. They will elect one representative to the committee. The Department of Primary Industry also will have a representative. The Department's representative will be chairman of the Committee. That will be the membership of the Committee. 
I.  have been informed that the universities' representative will be a man who has a research background. He will be able to give the Research Committee his advice and experience in that line. I think I have covered most of the points mentioned by honourable senators. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In  Committee 
Clauses 1 to 7 - by leave - taken together. 
Before I answer this question I would like to say that 9 different industry research Bills have been through this chamber to raise money in exactly the same way as these Bills relating to the pig industry intend that money should be raised. A Commonwealth grant will be made to match the amount raised in levies. Under this Bill the levy is paid by the owner of the pigs when he goes to the abattoir. The answer to the question asked specifically by  Senator Murphy  is yes. lt is the responsibility of those producing pigs for consumption either intrastate or interstate to pay the levy. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without requests; report adopted. 
The Government cannot support the motion moved by  Senator Milliner.  As  Senator Milliner  said, the provisions in sub-clause (2.) are not new. Similar provisions are incorporated in Acts covering other research schemes involving major rural industries. A provision of this nature is contained in the Dried Fruits Levy Collection Bill, as  Senator Milliner  said. The power under this provision is not used very frequently, but it is probably the only means by which the authorities on whom this Parliament lays the responsibility for collecting levies are able to collect this revenue from deliberate evaders. Under the provisions of this Bill the collection of the levy will, in the majority of cases, be done by the abattoirs. Well over 90 per cent of the levies will be collected by the abattoirs. The percentage may even be higher. 
The power of averment or statement is used to initiate court action. The allegation can quite easily be refuted by production of the required records.  Senator Milliner  turns away in disgust. Can he tell me how many people would be required to produce records other than abattoirs? This legislation is comparable to that introduced for mutton and beef industry research schemes. We have not had any trouble with those schemes. If this sub-clause is not agreed to then it is quite likely that we will have the old story of more inspectors having to be appointed to police the industry. The industry and the Government do not at this stage want to see this happen. This is why the averment clause has been included in this Bill. The Government cannot support the motion. 
 I cannot agree with  Senator Murphy  who, with all his legal training, gets up here and says: 'This will be imposed on every producer.' That is a lot of nonsense. This levy is imposed at the abattoir. The abattoir has to be registered. If the producer wants to kill a pig for his own consumption then he does not have to pay any levy. The levy is collected at the abattoir and any abattoir would have an account of the pigs coming in. The levy deducted is shown on a statement sent out to the owner of the pigs at the time of slaughter. If the Government were given an indication that a particular slaughterhouse was .evading its responsibility of collection then it could use the averment clause to initiate action. All the Commonwealth does is to ask whether it can look at the books. Is this running over the people's rights? Let us have a look at it- 

 Senator Murphy says this clause has been included because the Commonwealth Government does not want to do the job ot does not want to pay out more money. This money is raised by the producers themselves and they do not want to pay out money to keep a whole heap of public servants occupied inspecting a factory that may, in the years ahead, evade the collection of levies. What happens is that the Department of Primary Industry has a number of men who are responsible for visiting factories periodically in connection with all these research funds. In some cases they might visit a factory only once in 15 months or so, but if they feel that a particular abattoir has been evading its responsibilities in collecting the levy then they can ask to see the books. Surely this is not doing away with the rights of the individual growers. 
The Government cannot accept the amendment moved by  Senator Milliner.  Let me remind honourable senators that in all legislation similar to this research Bill, other than the Dried Fruits Research Bill, the prosecution for an offence may be commenced at any time. That has been written into all the other industry research Bills. It will be recalled that, because of objection raised in the Senate when the dried fruits legislation was introduced the Government took out the words 'at any time' and inserted the words 'five years'. During the course of the debate honourable senators on all Sides of the House suggested that I should look at this period of 5 years as it was, in their opinion, too long. I did not come to any compromise agreement. 
Honourable senators will recall that I asked for leave to report progress. I went away and talked with the Minister for Primary Industry and his departmental officers. I came back into the Senate and, in the debate, I made the point that the Minister for Primary Industry would accept a reduction from 5 years to 3 years. But while accepting the reduction in time, I pointed out to the Senate that in some cases this period would be far too short for the officers of the Department to carry out their investigations into a particular case and that in some instances, because of this time limit, the officers would be forced to speed up their investigations arid perhaps institute a prosecution, when normally they would have given more time to further investigations. In this case the Government believes that 12 months is far too short. It believes that in some cases it may be more than 12 months before the inspectors find that someone has been evading the collection of the levy. If this had to be done within 12 months more inspectors would be needed. .We have been through this argument on a number of occasions in relation to the dried fruits legislation. I have nothing to add, other than that the Government cannot support the amendment. 
I cannot assure the honourable senator that all avenues have been explored but I would be fairly firm in my belief that very close scrutiny has been made of the possible markets available. The honourable senator will recall that recently representatives of the meat trade in America and representatives of the Australian Meat Board and the New Zealand Meat Board met in New Zealand to discuss the promotion of lamb in those 3 countries. A committee was formed and a decision was taken that money should be made available for the promotion of lamb in America and that a promotion campaign directed at the trade and the consuming public should be carried out. I understand that that promotion campaign is to begin in about June of this year. Other than that I cannot give the honourable senator any information. However, I assure him that I will bring the question he has asked before the Minister for Primary Industry. 
I do not have all the details for which the hon ourable senator has asked. I will most certainly have a look at the question and give him a reply at a latter date. 
 I should like to associate myself and my Country Party colleagues with the motion moved by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  and the comments of the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy).  For a variety of reasons this occasion is sincerely regretted by all who have the honour to sit in this Senate. Today we are saying goodbye to 12 of our colleagues from both sides of this chamber who collectively have served this nation and this Senate with dedication and distinction. Five of our colleagues -  Sir Ailster  McMuIlin, the Honourable Dame Annabelle Rankin, the Honourable Malcolm Scott, Dame Ivy Wedgwood and  Senator Bert  Hendrickson - have each given more than 20 years of valuable service to this Senate and to the electors in the States they represent. Two other honourable senators -  Senator Jim  Toohey and  Senator Pat  Kennelly - just missed by a couple of years in being in that select band which contribute 2 decades of service to this Senate and to the people of Australia. 
Out of curiosity I took the trouble to tally up the number of years given to the Parliament by the men and women whom we are farewelling today, and it conies to a staggering total of 198 years. Whichever way you look at this, it is a lot of experience for a nation to lose at the one time. It would be wrong to assume that the men who will replace the 12 senators to whom we are saying farewell today will not bring to this chamber equal talent. But I think that the 12 who are retiring may have had a harder road to hoe in the years that they have been in this Senate. More than half of them have served 18 years and more in the Senate and have helped to guide Australia through some of the most difficult periods in this country's history, particularly in the immediate post-war period. 
It is not my intention to mention every one of the honourable senators by name. We all know them well and are keenly aware of the fine work they have done in this chamber, both as honourable senators and on the various committees on which they served. However, I would like to mention one or two of them.  Sir Alister  McMullin, who has already been mentioned, is one man to whom this chamber is deeply indebted for the way in which he has conducted the affairs of the Senate and the distinction and honour he has given to the Presidency. I would like also to add my own personal tribute to you,  Mr President.  Having served under you as a  Deputy President  I know the courtesy and the help that you gave me during those difficult first days when I took over that position. 1 pay tribute also to our 2 lady retiring senators,  Senator Dame  Annabelle Rankin and  Senator Dame  Ivy Wedgwood. Dame Annabelle has given 24 years in helping govern Australia while Dame Ivy has given 22 years. Their performance is all the more creditable in the light of them being women in an establishment which is occupied predominantly by men. They have acquitted themselves with great distinction. 
Finally, I pay a tribute to  Senator Tom  Bull, one of our Country Party stalwarts, and a man of whom we have been very proud both for his performance in this Senate and for the way in which he has fought outside for the Country Party. To those people who are departing and to their families I and my Country Party colleagues offer our very best wishes for the future and our warmest regards. 
I think that in answer to a question on notice asked by  Senator Keeffe  I said the other day that the amount of $US228m is our outlay at the present time. I referred to this matter last week in answer to a question by  Senator Bishop  when I explained that I would be sending officers to the United States of America to make inquiries concerning the progress towards meeting our operational technical requirements as laid down under the Laird-Fraser agreement in May of last year. I explained at that time that because there had been slippages in the static and the fatigue tests there could be a delay as to when we could view the results of these tests and so make a decision. The honourable senator will recall that under the Laird-Fraser agreement these tests were to be advanced in order to enable Australia to make a decision late this year. Because of the slippage I want to know whether we will still be able to make a decision at the end of the year or, if not, how long after that period we will be in a position to make it. Of course, despite these slippages, we may be still in a position to make that decision later this year. This is the information with which those officers in America will be supplying me when they return. 
I shall refer this question to the Minister for his comments. Rather than ask the honourable senator to put the question on notice, I shall write to him at a later date with the information. 
 I have seen the article to which the honourable senator referred and I can tell him that the Royal Australian Air Force has no plans at present to purchase this aircraft. Of course, we would have to carry out an evaluation against the strategic requirements of the Australian defence force when the need arose to replace an existing aircraft in the RAAF inventory. But I would not think that the Harrier is an aircraft that could replace the helicopter in the various roles that it plays. 
I present the report of the Privileges Committee relating to articles which appeared in the 'Sunday Review' and 'Sunday Australian' on 2nd May 1971. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
Motion (by  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson) agreed to: 
That consideration of the report be made an order of the day for  a  later hour this day. 
I seek leave to raise a matter. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Is there any objection? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
I raise one query in relation to which I ask for your ruling,  Mr Deputy President. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  The suggestion is that orders of the day Nos 5 and 6 and notice of motion No. 4 in the name of  Senator Murphy  be taken together and voted on separately. 
 Mr 
Deputy President- 
Do you not want to hear? If you kept quiet you could hear. I am quite willing to take the 2 Bills and notice of motion No. 4 together, but I understood that notice of motion No. 4 this morning was put on the notice paper for the next day of sitting. 
Suspension of Standing Orders 
Motion (by  Senator Murphy)  - by leave - agreed to: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended and so much of any other order of the Senate be varied as would prevent the debate on Government Business, Orders of the Day Nos 5 and 6 and Business of the Senate Notice of Motion No. 4 being dealt with concurrently and at the end of the debate, votes being taken on each separately. 
I think it is fair to say that if anyone wants to make allegations of that sort he should bring before the Minister for Repatriation or his Department particular instances. Until someone does something of this sort I believe no action can be taken. 
Yesterday  Senator Bishop  asked me the following question: 
Were the terms relating to the leasing of the 24 Phantom aircraft fixed in relation to the amount of work which might fall to Australian industry? If the terms relating to the use of the F111 aircraft have yet to be negotiated, will the Minister see to what extent the servicing and overhaul specifications and the work which has now apparently been sent to the United States of America might be let out to Australian manufacturers? 
The answer to the question is as follows: 
The terms relating to maintenance of the Phantom aircraft while on lease to us from the United States Air Force are embodied in the lease document and provide that the Royal Australian Air Force shall operate and maintain the leased property to USAF standards while it is under RAAF control, including modifications, periodic overhauls, technical order compliance, and any other actions that would be taken by the RAAF if the aircraft were owned by the RAAF and maintained to standards equivalent to those applied by the USAF. In other words normal maintenance of the aircraft is undertaken in Australia within the RAAF. 
Regarding the F1UC, arrangements have already been made for repair and overhaul of certain equipment here in Australia when the aircraft is delivered. The rework of spares which is currently being undertaken in the USA on our behalf is without doubt the most economical arrangement for Australia. By returning these spares, we avail ourselves of the production line in the United States and are included in the total rework programme for the whole fleet of Fill aircraft. If the work was undertaken here, it would involve purchase of highly specialist tooling at very great cost for a relatively small number of separate parts. 
The debate on the Bill before the Senate is being used by the Opposition as a vehicle to express its concern over what it calls the Government's mishandling of the Fill. That is the purport of the motion moved by the Opposition. I want first to reply to a statement made by  Senator Bishop  about the 18 serious crashes by Fill aircraft. Only yesterday I had the opportunity to compare the first 90,000 flying hours of various types of aircraft. Upon looking through that paper I found that the Fill, despite those 18 crashes, was far better in the first 90,000 flying hours than any of the F100 series of aircraft operating in many parts of the world at the present time. Opposition members have seen fit to say that the Government has mishandled this situation and that the Government should not have gone into this purchase in the first place. It is all very well to have hindsight but I point out to honourable senators opposite that they are not criticising the Government but in fact are criticising the expertise and technical knowledge of the men in the Royal Australian Air Force and the Department of Air. These are the men who, with Government representatives, went to Europe and America to evaluate aircraft and they made the decision that the Fill was the- 

 - Senator Bishop may say what he likes but really he is criticising the expertise and knowledge of the men of the RAAF. Each and every one of the Opposition senators has a wonderful background of expert technical knowledge to do this! For a long time now many people have criticised this purchase and asked whether there was a need for a strike aircraft in the Australian defence force. That point has been argued backwards and forwards. Many people who are against having a strike aircraft in our defence force immediately set out to criticise the Fill. Really they should have been criticising other facets. On the other hand there is a group in this country who, while accepting that there should be a strike aircraft in our defence force, say that the Fill is not the aircraft we need. Therefore we have those 2 groups of people who are. dead against this aircraft. Since the decision to purchase it was made they have given it no chance at all. The RAAF has built up valuable expertise in the field of strike aircraft. 
The honourable senator has been informed by people other than those from whom I get my information. It is necessary for the Air Force to have modern strike aircraft to maintain this' situation.' Of the aircraft available in the world at present that fit into this category the Fill is the one that would serve our purpose best. No other aircraft can equal its ability to carry a heavy weapon load over such a wide radius of action nor can any other aircraft penetrate, the most sophisticated enemy defences under any weather conditions. These are the criteria that the Air Force has laid down for a strike aircraft. There is no other aircraft that can better meet these criteria than the Fill. 
I will admit, as honourable senators have pointed out from time to time in questions to me, that there have been some technical difficulties. Honourable senators will recall that last year the then Minister for Defence, together with officers of my Department, went to the United States of America and spoke with the Minister for Defence in that country,  Mr Laird,  before coming back here with what is now called the Fraser-Laird minute. Agreement was reached between them that following certain static and fatigue tests that were to be carried out- 
Apparently honourable senators opposite do not want to listen to me. It seems that some honourable senators opposite are treating this matter as purely a political canter. It will be recalled that it was agreed at that time that these tests were to be completed so Australia could make a decision at the end of this year. I have' said that the timing of some of these teste has slipped. I have also said that I want to know whether it has slipped far enough to prevent us from making a decision at the end of the year or how soon we can make one in the new year. If the aircraft is ultimately proven and the performance criteria that we have laid down, which have been agreed to between the 2 governments, are met we will take delivery of this aircraft because it is the aircraft which best serves our purposes. The chief technical officer of the Department of Air has gone to the United States of America to determine exactly What is the situation at the present time in regard to these technical fatigue tests. Until we know that I do not think we are in a position- 
On this particular line, yes. We. have technical and project officers in the United States on the site all the time, giving us advice and keeping us in touch with the project position. I want to remind honourable senators that, as has been said time and again, this aircraft is a generation ahead of any other strike aircraft currently in operation in the world. There may be some technical difficulties with it, but why should we not wait a few months extra to get something that is going to take us through to the late 1980s? Does the Australian Labor Party suggest that we should, cancel the order for these aircraft now and accept something that will be out of date in the next 2 years? This is what it is saying. The Government does not accept the view that this action should be taken. It believes that if these technical difficulties can be overcome, and overcome within a reasonable time, we will have ,an aircraft that will meet the requirements of the Royal Australian Air Force. 
I turn now to the criticism of the position of the aircraft industry in Australia. It has been said that the Air Force has not been giving this industry enough work. 
Well , the Government has not. It is the firm policy of my Department that wherever possible orders for Air Force hardware will be placed with the domestic industry. That is not something which has just happened; it has been the policy for a considerable number of years. Let me remind the Senate that the Government - which is what  Senator Bishop  wants me to refer to - and the RAAF support the Australian industry because its industrial capacity is seen to be of direct significance. 
Let me finish my statement first. It might be said that the industry is the fourth arm of the defence forces, following the 3 Services. The development of our natural resources and the strengthening of our industrial complex adds te our overall defence capabilities. Without aa efficient domestic industry there would be no capacity to develop sophisticated weapons and equipment nor is it likely that skilled experts would be available to assist in the maintenance of this equipment. Moreover, by undertaking the manufacture of highly advanced equipment, new and vital techniques and know-how are introduced which, before long, spread their beneficial influences into the industry at large. I think we would be in agreement on that aspect. This by-product or spin-off more than compensates for some delay or some extra cost in awarding contracts to the domestic industry. Let me hasten to add that Australia has no monopoly on this policy. Many smaller nations seek to keep up with modern technology by manufacturing their own defence equipment wherever possible. In this way they gain an added bonus in the new skills and techniques that filter through to their other industrial projects. It goes even further than that these days. Australia now seeks from the . United States of America offset orders and sub-contracts for Australian industry as a means of easing the foreign exchange burden on defence equipment. 
I think it can be said quite categorically in justice to the RAAF that it has played a part in fostering the aviation industry in Australia. I say that because of the experi ence which has been gained over the years. In fact, in the last 30 years it has been the principal supporter of the industry. Of some 1,000 aircraft bought by the RAAF in the post-war years more than 800 were manufactured in Australia. I will name a few of them. The Winjeels, Sabres, Canberras, Mirages and Macchis have been leading aircraft in the RAAF inventory. On top of that there were the Lincolns and Mustangs, which have been phased out. The only aircraft bought overseas for the RAAF have been in small lots. In answer to a question that  Senator Bishop  asked me this morning I said that it is a very costly thing to try to build aircraft in small lots. It would have been grossly wasteful to attempt to manufacture certain aircraft in small lots. Aircraft in this category include the Neptune, Hercules, Caribou, Meteor, Orion and, of course, the Fill.  Senator Bishop  said that the Government is spending only small amounts on small lots in the aircraft industry. Let me give to the Senate a few figures relating to recent expenditure by the RAAF in the local aircraft industry. An amount of $39.2m has been spent on Macchi aircraft and $91m has been expended on Mirage aircraft. 
No, they are not. Last year expenditure on repair and overhaul work was $llm and the amount expended on the manufacture of spare parts for the RAAF was $19m. On top of that there is a prototype Project N, an aircraft which may be used for both military and civil purposes. 
I cannot  tell the  honourable senator that at the present time because this is a matter which is still being examined but it is a matter for the future and examination is continuing all the time. Therefore I believe that is grossly unfair to say that the Government is doing nothing about this. The amounts of expenditure to which I have referred are not small amounts. They relate to expenditure on repair work and the manufacture of spare parts. This expenditure keeps coming up year after year. I believe that the Opposition is talking nonsense when it says that the Government has mishandled the Fill project and that it is not doing anything for the aircraft industry. For those reasons the Government cannot support the amendment moved by the Opposition. 
I am not prepared to do that. 
Yes, he would benefit indirectly. He would get the debts paid that were owing to him. 
I said that the small businessman indirectly would benefit from this scheme. He must benefit because he will have some of the debts paid that are owing by him at the present time. 
No, the loan will be made to the producer who applies for it. In relation to rehabilitation,  Senator Cant  made the. point that $1,000 was not enough. This matter,., which is between the Commonwealth and the States, is to be looked at as- soon as this legislation becomes operative and when we have some experience of what is happening in that particular field. If a man who works in the town is unemployed, he has certain sources from which to obtain assistance. If the businessmen in . the community need assistance, in the view of the State, no doubt the States will come to the Commonwealth with a plan seeking some financial assistance in that way. . 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
in reply - I take this opportunity to thank all honourable senators who have contributed to the debate. I note that there were 16 speakers in the debate. Furthermore, I should like to say for the purposes of the record that a number of honourable senators said to me that they would like to speak in the debate but would not do do so because time was running out; nevertheless they mentioned one or two points to me. I inform all honourable senators that we have carefully noted the points that were made by them. Although I shall not reply to those points now, they have been noted by the Department of Primary Industry and we shall see what can be done about them. 
There has been no outright opposition to this measure, although considerable concern was expressed by nearly all speakers about certain aspects of the legislation. This measure arose from a proposition which the Commonwealth submitted to the States last December. It offered the States a loan of $100m at an interest rate of 3 per cent per annum, with a 3-year holiday from repayments, which were to be made over a period of 20 years. The States considered this offer and would not accept it They came up with a proposition for a grant of $25m and a loan of $75m, and they had calculated the proportion of that $100m that each State should receive. Since then there has been considerable discussion between officers of the Commonwealth Department of Primary Industry and officers of the various State Departments of Agriculture. In addition, there have been Ministerial discussions. This Bill is the outcome of those discussions, during which the best knowledge available in the Commonwealth and State departments was brought to bear on the subject. 
At no time has the Commonwealth Government or any State Government said that this measure will meet every situation, but they have agreed that when the Bill is passed through the Senate and becomes operative the Commonwealth Government and the State governments, having gained some experience from it, will consider various other matters, many of which have been raised by honourable senators in the course of this debate. In the schedule to the Bill is a review clause by which the Commonwealth gives an undertaking that, together with the States, it will review certain matters which will enable amending legislation, if that is required, to be brought before the various Parliaments so that it may be brought into operation before 1st July 1972. 
Some comment has been made on the use to be made of the funds made available to the States under this measure. A number of honourable senators made the point that the agreement provides that half the funds for each State should be used for farm build-up.  Senator Prowse  was one of the first to make this point. I point out to the Senate that this is purely an objective. In some States there will not be the need that there is in other States for farm build-up. Doubt has been expressed by some about whether the States will be able to use 50 per cent of the funds they receive for farm build-up, but this is a matter which can be determined only by individual experience and the type of application of funds needed by the States. It is believed that it will be necessary to overcome the structural problems of small farm sizes in order to allow farmers a reasonable standard of living commensurate with that enjoyed by the remainder of the community. There seems to be some doubt about this. Some honourable senators have expressed the view that they do hot believe this should be done. 
I want to draw the attention of the Senate to a report of a Commission set up on 4th March 1943 by the Minister for Post-war Reconstruction. Ten reports were presented and they dealt with various aspects of the reconstruction of our rural economy in the post-war period. The 4th report, dated 28th August 1944, was on financial and economic reconstruction of farms. This sort of report brings us close to the various reconstructions schemes of the 1930s and the 1940s. I would like honourable senators to note this recommendation made by that Commission at that time. Among other matters it recommended. 
That any future scheme for debt adjustment should be part of a general measure which provides for a reorganisation of farms on a basis of their productive capacity and for the reconstruction or elimination of uneconomic farms. 
Another important recommendation was: 
A greater measure of success might have been achieved if the Commonwealth had taken a more active part in scrutinising the States' legislation to ensure that the principles agreed to were incorporated in their schemes and that there was general uniformity in approach. 
In view of what we are doing now it might be a useful exercise for honourable senators to consider those 2 recommendations of the Commission at that time. 

 Senator Wilkinson mentioned interest rates and said that the interest rate of not less than  6i  per cent over a period of 20 years was too high. I pointed out earlier in my remarks that when the Commonwealth first made an offer to the States the interest rate was 3 per cent. However, I think  Senator Wilkinson  will agree with me that this interest rate of 6) per cent is most concessional when compared with the annual services charges and interest and capital repayment. The sum involved could be brought to about  8i  per cent of the debt. Compare this with a commercial loan over 5 years at 7 per cent where servicing costs would represent about 24 per cent of the original loan. 
I did not say that. 
Let me go on. 1 stated that this legislation provides a period for review. The State and Commonwealth officers will have a chance to gain experience when this scheme gets into operation and then there will be time for a review. The aim of this legislation is to reconstruct viable farms. I think  Senator Webster  asked: What is a viable farm? I think he mentioned the figure of 38c as being the price of a pound of wool when this legislation was drawn up but the price is very much below 30c.  Senator Douglas  McClelland made the point that in New South Wales the Minister for Agriculture had taken up this matter with the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair).  I have a telegram here- 
Yesthe Minister for Lands. I have the reply in which  Mr Sinclair  makes the same point - that if this legislation is passed through the Senate he will review the position. The officers of the Department of Primary Industry conferred with their fellow officers in the States and the Minister for Primary Industry had talks with the Ministers for Agriculture, or Ministers for Lands as they are in some States, and they all agreed that any scheme introduced would be unrealistic if it omitted cases which required the bridging of too large a gap between the terms provided under this scheme and normal commercial terms. That is another reason why this rate of interest has been fixed. The Government considers also that there are better ways of providing assistance to the primary producers than allowing a low interest rate to be fixed which may distort the whole of the economy. Much has been said during the- course of the debate about the maximum of $1,000 which has been set aside for rehabilitation. 1 admit that in the present day and age, having regard to the costs and so on, this is a pretty small amount, but the Minister has given an undertaking to the States that he will review the situation as soon as this legislation conies into effect. 
I turn to the amendment moved by  Senator Wilkinson  on behalf, of the Australian Labor Party. In his opening remarks  Senator Wilkinson  spoke of the delay in bringing this legislation before the Parliament. I believe that, in view of all the aspects involved it was a pretty good effort on the part of those concerned to get the legislation to this stage from the end of December, especially in view of the differences of opinion and environment as well as the other differences between the States themselves.  Senator Wilkinson's  amendment seeks the withdrawal of the legislation from the Senate so that the States and the Commonwealth can have a further look at it. The States of Queensland and Western Australia have informed the Commonwealth that they want the money which will be made available under this legislation as soon as possible.  Senator Wilkinson  will appreciate that because the Western Australian Parliament has not sat for some time is has not been possible to amend the Loan (Farmers' Debt Adjustment) Act insofar as it concerns Western Australia. An amount of $430,000 will be made available to Western Australia when that amendment comes into effect. Western Australia wants this money as soon as it can get it. The various representatives in this chamber of the State of Queensland have pointed out that drought conditions prevail in that State. Queensland also wants the money as soon as it can get it. For that reason, I believe that we must go on with this legislation. 

 Senator Wilkinson said that restrictive provisions or a means test should apply to this legislation. No honourable senator from the Opposition side of the chamber has told me what is meant by a means test. I take it that the Opposition is saying that a farmer who does not make more than $2,000 or $6,000-1 do not know what figure the Opposition is putting on it - over and above his expenses should come within the ambit of this scheme. The Opposition has not spelt out its proposition. I believe that the imposing of this restriction would make the legislation more restrictive than it is at the present time. It does not matter what a farmer makes; the important thing is whether he can meet his repayments and interest as well as his other commitments. If he cannot meet his commitments and he cannot get money to assist himself he must come within the ambit of this scheme if he is in a position where assistance under this scheme will make him, if not a successful farmer, at least a viable farmer. 
I have dealt already with the other points relating to eligibility and the ability of a farmer to service his debts. I turn now to rehabilitation loans. I have said that at the present time we have no knowledge of how many men will be involved under this provision; nor have we had any experience to tell us where the cut-off point will be for those who will have to move off their farms should that be necessary. We must wait until we can gain some experience. As soon as we have that background the question of greater asistance to those who leave their properties will be considered. No doubt as soon as this legislation comes into operation the Minister and his advisers will be looking at this situation and discussing it with the States. Therefore, taking that view the Government cannot support the amendment moved by the Australian Labor Party. 
I think all of us in this chamber realise that the man on the land is part of the backbone of this country and that the smaller farmer, the man who perhaps finds it most difficult to stay on the land, must be kept there should he desire to stay. For that reason I support this legislation. I cannot support the Opposition's amendment. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be left out  (Senator Wilkinson's amendment)  be left out. 
The Government cannot accept the amendment. We believe that if the proposed commission of inquiry were to perform its task properly it would take a long time, perhaps  2  or  3  years. Earlier I pointed out that the Rural Re-construction Commission which was set up in March  1943  brought down  10  reports, the last of which was completed in  1946.  That Commission took  3  years to make its inquiries, so, this bears out my belief that the proposed inquiry would take a long time.  -Senator Douglas  McClelland - The situation is much worse today. 
That is quite likely. It would entail more investigation. The possible subject matter of a general inquiry would be inflation and general economic policies. Matters to be referred to the proposed commission would come under about  26  headings and include such topics as the Australian tariff, Government policies and their effect on rural industry, the specific effects of customs duties and items used in the rural industries. 
I know. These matters would be of assistance to the rural industries. If we take other rural industry matters there are  11  headings in that category. We believe that there are many existing methods of obtaining factual information and advice. First of all there is the Australian Agricultural Council and its committees which are made up of State representatives from the major agricultural bodies. There are the State departments dealing with agriculture and industry and producer organisations such as the Bureau of Agricultural Economics and a host of other organisations. If the Government wants a special investigation carried out it can turn to reports such as the report on debt reconstruction and farm adjustment which was prepared recently by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics. Then there are the industry sponsored committees of inquiry such as the Wool Advisory Committee which is still continuing its investigations; the Canned Deciduous Fruits Advisory Committee, the Commonwealth Grape Advisory Committee and the Cotton Advisory Committee. Each pf the industries can have an advisory committee. There is a whole wealth of information besides this which is already available as  Senator Wilkinson  has just said. For those reasons and because of the length of time which this inquiry would take we on this side of the House cannot support this amendment. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be added-  (Senator Byrne's amendment)  be added. 
The 
Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
It is understood that some primary producers are experiencing difficulties in obtaining finance to purchase livestock because of uncertainty regardin the current and prospective economic viability of their enterprises. 
The information available on indebtedness in the rural sector confirms the importance of Pastoral Finance Companies in the provision of credit to primary producers. A substantial proportion of this credit would be for the financing of livestock purchases. There are, however, other sources of credit available for these purposes. For example the Commonwealth Development Bank lends for sound developmental proposals including the purchase of livestock when credit from other sources is not available on suitable terms and conditions. 
Finance for primary producers is already being made available to a large extent through the major trading banks, although other sources of credit are available to the rural sector. 
Having regard to the special difficulties facing primary producers, the Government has asked the Reserve Bank that loans by the Trading Banks to rural borrowers be at preferential interest rates compared with rates charged to other borrowers. Moreover banks have given assurances that, consistent with commercial viability, they are maintaining their long standing favourable treatment of rural borrowers and that they assess new rural lending propositions sympathetically. Loans made by banks depend on their assessment of individual propositions. Preferential rates for rural borrowers apply also to rural loans from the Commonwealth Development Bank. 
The States Grants (Rural Reconstruction) Act 1971 provides for advances to purchase additional livestock as part of the debt reconstruction arrangements. However the provision of funds through the rural reconstruction scheme is not intended to displace finance normally available from other sources. 
On Friday, 7th May,  Senator Sim  asked me a question about a report that New South Wales had used money made available to cover special allocations of prime hard wheat for the general run of deliveries with the result that New South Wales growers had been paid for an additional 14 million bushels. He asked whether this report was correct, and would not this action be contrary to the intention of controlled wheat production in Australia. I now have additional information which I give the honourable senator. 
The administration of quotas in any State is  a  matter for the appropriate State 
Authorities. In New South Wales both the Grain Elevators Board and the Wheat Quota Review Committee have responsibilities which are denned by the State quotas legislation. The Australian Wheat Board makes payments to growers for wheat delivered within their quota entitlements. The basic quota for New South Wales for the 1969-70 season was 123 million bushels. A special quota of 7 million bushels for prime hard wheat brought the total for the State to 130 million bushels. The Wheat Board was asked to provide information on deliveries against the State quotas. The Board has now advised as follows: New South Wales growers delivered approximately 145.8 million bushels of which 16.1 million bushels represented overquote deliveries. Payments by the Board to New South Wales growers have been made in respect of 129.7 million bushels, including 6.3 million bushels of prime hard and 0.6 million bushels of readily saleable varieties. 
From further information provided by the Board it appears that a shortfall in prime hard deliveries  -  0.7 million bushels - was utilised to take in about 0.6 million bushels of overquote wheat which would have qualified as readily salable, being made up of the variety Falcon and soft biscuit types. The Board has expressed the view that treatment in this way of the relatively small quantity involved avoided difficult administrative problems associated with identifying transactions which qualified as readily salable and the subsequent pro rata distribution, among eligible growers, of the proceeds of sale. It is clear from this that the allegation that New South Wales growers have been paid for 7 million bushels of f.a.q. wheat in excess of their quotas is not correct. It seems, however, a small quantity, 0.6 million bushels, was treated in this way and the Minister for Primary Industry is pursuing this matter with the New South Wales Minister for Agriculture and the Wheat Board. 
The only other point 1 have to make concerns the provision of funds for the Wheat Board's operations. The practice has been that the Government makes arrangements with the Reserve Bank under which the Rural Credits Department of the Bank makes funds available to the Wheat Board to enable the Board to meet pool expenses, such as freight, storage and handling, and  to pay growers a first advance on wheat delivered to it. Limits on the funds available are determined on the basis of aggregate quotas, but it is in no way the responsibility of the Bank to relate advances to the Board to the quotas set for individual categories of wheat or, for that matter, to State quotas and deliveries. 
The 
Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Service departments determine the standards of foodstuffs required for the Australian armed Services. However, as a general rule the Commonwealth food specifications are used for this purpose. These specifications are drawn up by an inter-departmental Committee convened by the Department of Primary Industry. The procurement of Service foodstuffs is the responsibility of the Department of Supply in its capacity as the Commonwealth purchasing authority. 
The standards of quality for foodstuffs for government catering services are the responsibility of the respective purchasing authority. 
The Commonwealth food specifications prescribe standards for raw materials used as a basis for processed foods in respect of those foodstuffs for which such specifications are considered to be necessary. For some products specific specifications for raw materials are not included because deficiencies in the raw materials would be evident in the finished processed product. By arrangement with the Department of Supply or the Service department concerned the Department of Primary Industry undertakes the inspection of raw materials used in Service contacts in respect of foodstuffs, such as meat and meat products, eggs and egg products and processed fruits, which are prepared in establishments under continuous supervision by the Department of Primary Industry. 
Information available indicates that for products not inspected by the Department of Primary Industry the extent of inspection of raw materials varies depending upon the area of procurement and the type of commodities concerned. 
Government catering services are provided by a very wide range of authorities which are respon sible for procurement arrangements and quality enforcement. Indications are that these organisations rely mainly on the inspection of the product at time of delivery. 
The 
Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the  honourable senator's question: 
The inspection functions of the Department of Primary Industry are confined to the inspection of products intended for export. Such inspections encompass the examination of raw materials where it is considered necessary and it is practicable to do so. An export standard for margarine is prescribed in the Exports (Dairy Produce) Regulations. This standard prohibits the use in margarine intended for export of any fat obtained from diseased stock. However, export inspections of margarine are of the finished product only. 
The Senate is dealing with a Bill to amend the Loan (Farmers' Debt Adjustment) Act 1935-1950 to enable the funds at present being held by the States under this Act to be made available for the same purposes as the funds that are to be provided by the Commonwealth under the States Grants (Rural Reconstruction) Bill which the Senate debated last Friday.  Senator Kane  has moved an amendment to this Bill which is set out in 3 parts. The amendment suggests that it is  Senator Kane's  view that the most rapid and the most effective emergency relief to the primary producers would be achieved by the Commonwealth establishing a national rural finance corporation outside the banking system. I wonder whether it would because this would require legislation which cannot be brought down before the end of the next sessional period shortly before Christmas. Then it would require the setting up of a corporation which is not done in a matter of a few moments. 
If we analyse the amendment moved by  Senator Kane  we find that it implies that the debts of all or most rural producers should be taken over by the institution. Presumably it would also involve the institution in making additional loans to primary producers. At 30th June 1970 institutional loans to primary producers amounted to $2,095m, which is a considerable amount of money. The recent report of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics shows that the Bureau estimated that between 20 per cent and 25 per cent of the total debt in the wheat and sheep industries is represented by private family loans, loans from solicitors' trust accounts, hire purchase debts and vendor credit. Assuming that the Bureau's estimation is correct, if we apply that proportion of private debt in general to all rural industries then on this percentage there could be a further debt of about $630m over and above the total recorded rural debt to institutional lenders. In the Government's view - we say this conservatively - such a corporation could cost about SI, 000m to set up and to take over some of the debts that are outstanding. Of course, this would apply on the conditions and terms of the loans that the corporation would make. The Government believes that the quickest way to do this job would be to use the normal channels - the rural reconstruction scheme - and to use the other means the Government has said that it hopes to set up, such as the Farmers' Loan Insurance Corporation. This surely would be much better than setting up the body that  Senator Kane  wants set up which will cost a terrific amount of money. 
I turn now to the last portion of the amendment which deals with estate duty. I remind the Senate that estate duty is not an unimportant source of revenue to the Commonwealth. In the 1969-1970 financial year it amounted to $71m. If the Commonwealth were to yield up estate duty to the States, there would be a number of major implications for Commonwealth and State financial relations. The present general revenue grants arrangements are on the basis that the existing division of financial responsibilities between the Commonwealth and the States does not significantly alter during the currency of the arrangements. Today at question time we heard a senator saying that he did not want to see increased taxation come about if the Government relinquished estate duty. I think that would be the general view of many honourable senators. But the Commonwealth has to make up this revenue from somewhere. 
1 am not going to have an argument with  Senator Byrne  about this. 
The honourable senator realised that if this probate was relinquished by the Commonwealth - I might remind the Senate that he suggested that the States were looking for increased revenue - and if the States had the S71m to themselves they would be inclined to increase this duty because they are seeking much more than $71m by way of growth tax. We have to look at that situation. We have only recently amended the legislation in relation to probate. No doubt the Commonwealth will go on looking at this and, where it can, gradually reduce the rates or provide some other relief. But to vacate the whole field is not a practical proposition at this time. For those reasons the Government cannot support the amendment moved by  Senator Kane. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be added  (Senator Kane's amendment)  be added. 
The Senate is dealing with a Bill to amend the Loan (Farmers' Debt Adjustment) Act. The purpose of this Bill is to make available to the States funds for the reconstruction of farmers debts in conjunction with the States Grants (Rural Reconstruction) Bill which was passed in this chamber last Friday. If one looks at the second reading speech on this Bill one will see that there is no mention of probate in it at all. It is a general rule in this Senate that debates are confined to the subject mentioned in the title of the Bill. How did this matter of probate arise? Before lunch the Senate dealt with an amendment to the Bill moved by  Senator Kane.  One of the clauses to that amendment contains a reference to probate. The Senate in its wisdom or otherwise defeated that amendment. After lunch  Senator Prowse  moved a further amendment which mentions probate.  Senator Prowse  and other honourable senators have expressed their views in relation to probate and its effect on the rural producers. I do not think that any of us will quarrel with some of the points which were made during the course of this debate but those remarks are not appropriate to this Bill. The Government sees no reason why the amendment should be moved by  Senator Prowse  during the debate on this Bill. Surely it does not mean that because an honourable senator opposes the amendment he is opposed to probate duty. 
Give me a chance; you have had your say. 
No, it is not. The Government sees- no reason why a clause referring to probate, plucked out of the blue, should be attached to this Bill. If honourable senators believe that this should be done, there is no reason why in a future debate an honourable senator cannot introduce by way of an amendment a clause which has nothing to do with the Bill before the Senate and then expect the Senate to support it. Representations on probate duty have been made by organisations representing all sections of the community, both political and rural. These requests have over the past 12 months been directed to the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  by way of .notices of motion, by letter and so on. In each case the Treasurer has indicated that the Government will closely scrutinise all submissions made during the course of Budget considerations. The Government believes that there is no need for this proposed clause to be attached to the Bill and therefore the Government cannot support the amendment. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be. added  (Senator Prowse's amendment)  be added. 
 I understand that this is standard legal phrasing in that context. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
It is true that there has been in recent months a heavier than normal work load at Edinburgh due to the circumstances of the visit to the base by the Duke of Edinburgh and the flying display carried out from that base for the fiftieth anniversary of the Royal Australian Air Force. As the honourable senator has said, it has been due also to Qantas aircraft practicing take-offs and landings at the Edinburgh base when Avalon was out of commission. The activities at Edinburgh require the fireman to be rostered for stand-by. They are not actually working but they are required to remain on the base for a period of duty instead of going home. In lieu of every 8 hours of stand-by the men, at the discretion of the base commander, are given a day off. In normal circumstances these days off are to be taken within a period of 28 days. I have made inquiries and I have been assured by the base commander that the days off will be preserved for a longer period than the required 28 days, so the honourable senator has that assurance. I am still making investigations into the matter and I will examine the transport suggestion put forward by the honourable 
in reply - As has been stated on a number of occasions, the Government is enacting a whole series of policy matters by which it seeks to assist primary industry, particularly the wool growers, in its cost problem. This Bill is one such measure that endeavours to assist in regard to the cost problem in the handling of wool. It has been estimated that in Sydney at the present time the handling of a bale of wool from the farm to ship side costs approximately $4.86. It is hoped that by the establishment of a complex similar to that in Yennora between $1.57 and $1.97 can be saved in the cost of handling a bale of wool. 
I wish to make 1 or 2 points in reply to  Senator Wilkinson.  The 3 founder brokers who are at Yennora at the present time are building now a compatible concept to the complete integrated complex. The remaining brokers have decided to move out to Yennora. It has been suggested by the 3 founder brokers who are already at Yennora to the Australian Wool Board, and it has agreed in principle that the Board take over this building and incorporate it in the complete integrated complex to be erected. The Board will lease back these buildings to the brokers; so this proposal is within the idea of the complex as envisaged by the Australian Wool Board in the first place. In regard to the matters raised by the honourable senator on behalf of  Senator Poyser,  I point out that it is not the intention of the Wool Board at this stage to upset any of the regional selling centres. 
In Victoria the Board has not commenced its investigations into whether that State will have complexes or not, although it is envisaged that this will be the case at some time in the future. But if investigations were carried out into the regional selling centres at Geelong and Portland and if those investigations proved conclusively that it would be much cheaper to have a complex for the handling of wool, this would be a matter that the Board no doubt would have a look at. If such a scheme proved to be advantageous the Board would no doubt recommend the building of such complexes. But at the present time investigations have not proceeded sufficiently far to support a recommendation or otherwise for a complex in Melbourne. 
Yes. The honourable senator mentioned the setup in Western Australia. From his knowledge he would know that a complex is in the early stages of construction at Spearwood. Western Australia is getting into much the same position as Sydney is in now where wool handling centres and storage centres are spread out and wool has to be moved from place to place. This arrangement, of course, increases handling charges. I think that is about all I wish to say. I would like to thank the Senate for the way in which it has dealt with this Bill during the second reading stage. We will now move on to the Committee stage. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
in reply - I thank the Senate for the passage of the Bill. Although no senator has opposed it we have roamed over a large area and I think most subjects have been canvassed except the subject of the Bill.  Senator Poyser,  who led for the Opposition, said that he thought this Bill was an election gimmick. It is rather irresponsible of the senator to say such a thing, because this Bill results from an application that was made by the State of Victoria to the Commonwealth Government early in December for financial assistance for the Shepparton Preserving Co. Ltd. Let us look at the reason why Victoria made this application. Firstly, the company had announced a trading loss for 1969 of $1.5m. At the same time it had outstanding from early in March 1970 the payments to the growers, which at that time it estimated to be in the vicinity of $7. 2m. It had also a carryover of 1,800,000 cartons of canned fruits. 
The company could not see its way clear to carry on. It estimated, although it did not know at that time, that it would have a substantial loss for the 1970 season. It is in this environment that it went to the Victorian Government and asked for assistance. Often a State comes to the Commonwealth and says: 'We cannot help in the request that has been made for assistance. We want you to help.' The Commonwealth has always examined very closely cases put forward by the State governments. If they are substantiated by facts and figures the Commonwealth endeavours to assist where it can. This is exactly what happened in this case. The Victorian Government came to the Commonwealth early in December, and at the end of December the Commonwealth said: "We will advance you $4m 

 Senator Milliner, and I think  Senator Poyser  also, asked why the Commonwealth had this legislation at hand but did not introduce it into the House of Representatives until just before that place adjourned. 
Although the Commonwealth made an advance to Victoria of $4m the State Government and the Commonwealth Government continued to examine this situation until about the middle of April. A firm decision was then made that the Commonwealth would lend $4.2m to Victoria. This is the reason for the protracted time between the initial request for assistance and the final announcement that an advance was to be made. 
It has been asked: 'What are the future operations of the Government in regard to the industry?' It has. been announced that the Government has set up a Canned Deciduous Fruit Industry Advisory Committee.. This arose put of the February meeting of the Australian Agricultural Council. This Committee will have its first meeting next week when it will set about finding ways and means of making a thorough investigation into the industry and reporting back to the Agricultural Council in due course, when this Government as well as the State governments will get an insight into the position in the industry. No doubt they will take some of the recommendations that the Committee may make and examine them thoroughly when they receive the Committee's report. 
Victoria has made a further application to the Commonwealth for- assistance for the 1971 crop. This has been made on a Premier to Prime Minister basis, and what was contained in the Premier's representations I do not know, so I cannot comment on them. But the fact is that the Prime Minister at present is examining a case put forward by Victoria in relation to the present season. This financial assistance was required because Shepparton Preserving Co. Ltd in past seasons, as I think  Senator Poyser  said, had endeavoured to take a crop of pears of large proportions irrespective of the quality of the pears. .Another reason for the company's financial loss was that the company, as admitted in its annual report, was not getting a satisfactory level of return per ton of fruit that it was canning. It has now replaced some of the members of its management committee and it believes that in the next 2 or 3 years it will be able to reach a situation where it can be profitable once again. In an endeavour to do this the company has had to control the intake of fruit this year. When he was addressing the Senate  Senator Little  made the point that there should be some organisation in relation to the intake of fruit and perhaps there could be some policy brought about whereby that huge carry over of canned fruit at the present time could be reduced. 
Another point I noticed in the annual report of the company was that it is having difficulty in selling the fruit overseas. Large quantities of fruit are being stored in Canada, which is a costly business. In order to get over this problem the company will have to engage in a very strictly controlled programme of promotion to try to reduce the stock that it has in that country. It also has to carry out a very vigorous campaign to improve its sales in other parts of the world. It believes that it can do this. With the assistance of the money being made available by the Commonwealth Government to the State Government, which will be loaned to the company, it believes that it can pay off its debts and pay for the delayed and final payments to the growers for the 1970 season and get back onto a much firmer basis. I think I have covered the points which were raised. I thank the Senate for its co-operation. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
I have seen a newspaper report of the alleged statement. I have not seen details of the statement. I will make inquiries and let the honourable senator have an answer. 
I will have to refer this matter to the Minister for Primary Industry and also to the Minister for External Territories. I shall do so, and if they are in a position or care to answer this question, I will pass the information on to the honourable senator. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
(a) 338,827 metric tons raw value. 
560,095 metric tons raw value. 
177,149 metric tons raw value, based on a season July 1969 to June 1970. 
No. 
On behalf of the Australian Country Party I offer congratulations to you,  Mr President,  on your election to the presidency of the Senate and extend to you our very best wishes for a long and rewarding term. 1 can assure you that we will give you respect and, at all times, our loyalty. We have seen you occupying the chair before and we know that at all times you were fair and impartial. We look forward to your having a long term as  President  and to your performing as you have performed in the past. I again extend to you our very best wishes. 
I would like to add the congratulation* of  Senator Prowse's  colleagues in the Country Party. I know  Senator Prowse  will uphold the dignity of this chamber and the office to which he has been elected and 1 fed sure that he will work very closely with you,  Mr President.  We look forward to a very successful term under  Senator Prowse. 
 I move: 
That  Senator Edgar  Wylie Prowse be appointed  Chairman  of Committees. 
While having a working knowledge of the Australian Wheat Board, I am afraid that I have not the detailed legal knowledge that the honourable senator is seeking. I shall seek the information which he requires and I shall let him have it, probably at question time tomorrow if 1 can. 
The house to which the honourable senator draws my attention belongs to the State Housing Commission and is made available for rental to the Royal Australian Air Force. It is true that for some time now it has been empty. I could not agree with the honourable senator that the reason given by him was the reason for the last tenant moving out. The Air Force has informed the Department of Housing, so that it can inform the State Housing Commission, that it no longer has a requirement for that house. 
-I am still the representative in this chamber of the Minister for Primary Industry. I have noth ing to add to what the Leader of the Government in the Senate has said. If further information is available 1 shall give it to the honourable senator. 
Sitting suspended from  5.45  to  8  p.m. 
Yesterday the honourable senator asked me a question about this matter and I gave him information on the points he raised regarding an Aboriginal family living in the house next to 33 Morrison Street, Swan View. I told him they were incorrect. I said then that the Air Force had had this house available to rent for some time and had not used it. 1 made inquiries of the Air Commodore at Pearce RAAF Base and was told that he has one married man who is not drawing temporary accommodation allowance, and who had been martied only last Saturday, available to live rsl that house. Therefore, as I said yesterday, we have informed the Department of the Housing that we have no further use for the house. 
The Minister for the Navy has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
There have been no deaths by suicide of cadets at HMAS Leeuwin in the past 3 years. 
The honourable senator asks me about something that happened at a Royal Australian Air Force base.I will certainly have to make an inquiry into it.  I  shall do so and give him the information obtained. 
Pursuant to section 10 of the Royal Australian Air Force Veterans' Residences Act 1953-1965, I present the annual report of the Royal Australian Air Force Veterans' Residences Trust for the year ended 30th June 1970, together with financial statements and the Auditor-General's report on those statements. 
What the honourable senator says in the main has been the problem of the wool industry for many years now but a large group of growers and others connected with the industry would not agree with all of what the honourable senator has said. For many years it has been the problem of the Government to get the sections of the industry together to look first of all at marketing and then at promotion of wool. I believe that over recent years the Government has been successful in its efforts to get the industry together in order to do something about the marketing of wool. Probably the ultimate in wool marketing is the acquisition of the clip but at the present time that is not suitable to all the growers in this country. However, I. shall have a further look at the long question that the honourable senator has put before me, and if I can get some further information I shall give it to him. 
The Minister for the Navy has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Yes. 
The RAN reserve ships HMAS 'Tobruk', Quiberon', 'Barcoo' and 'Kara Kara' currently berthed at the Naval dolphins in Athol Bight in Sydney Harbour are to be disposed of as they have now reached the end of their useful lives. Various pieces of equipment will be removed for use as spare parts or for training purposes prior to the ships being declared by the Department of Supply for sale. The Department of Supply will then call tenders for purchase of the ships. 
Until such time as the ships are actually sold they will remain at their present location in Sydney. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
The establishment of the Air Training Corps in Australia is 6,500 cadets. The total squadron strengths at 28th February 1971 was 5,651 cadets. 
It is normal at the beginning of the school year for A.T.C. strength to be down because cadets who reach the age of 18 during the year are discharged on 31st December. As the school year advances new recruits are enlisted and the normal working strength is approximately 6,150 cadets. 
The flight locations are as follows: 
North Queensland Air Training Corps 
Headquarters situated at Townsville Establishment- 460 
Strength- 370 
No. 1 Flight- RAAF Townsville 
No. 2 Flight - Townsville High School 
No. 3 Flight - Ingham 
No. 4 Flight - Cairns 
No. 5 Flight - Mackay 
No. 6 Flight - Mareeba 
No. 7 Flight - Innisfail 
No. 8 Flight - Townsville Grammar School 
No. 9 Flight- Pimlico High School 
No. 11 Flight- RAAF Townsville 
Queensland Air Training Corps 
Headquarters situated at Brisbane Establishment- 1 , 420 
Strength- 1,390 
No. 1 Flight - Squadron Headquarters 
No. 2 Flight - Brisbane Grammar School 
No. 3 Flight - Church of England Grammar School 
No. 4 Flight- Redcliffe State High School 
No. 5 Flight - Gatton - Queensland Agricultural College 
No. 6 Flight - Gympie 
No. 7 Flight- Nambour State High School 
No. 8 Flight- Amberly 
No. 9 Flight- South Brisbane State High School 
No. 10 Flight - Toowoomba 
No. 11 Flight- Christian Brothers' College 
No. 12 Flight- Sandgate 
No. 13 Flight - St Laurence's College 
No. 14 Flight - Brisbane Boys College 
No. 15 Flight- Holland Park High School 
No. 16 Flight - Maryborough 
No. 17 Flight - Boys Grammar School Ipswich 
No. 18 Flight- Corinda 
No. 19 Flight - Squadron Headquarters 
No. 20 Flight - Squadron Headquarters 
New South Wales Air Training Corps 
Headquarters situated at Sydney Establishment  -  1,620 
Strength- 1,644 
No. 1 Flight - Sydney Technical College 
No. 2 Flight- Sydney Technical High School 
No. 3 Flight - Camden 
No. 4 Flight- Sydney Church of England Grammar School 
No. 5 Flight - Frenchs Forest 
No. 6 Flight - SydneyGrammar School 
No. 7 Flight - No. 2 Stores Depot Bankstown 
No. 8 Flight- The Scots College 
No. 9 Flight- Canterbury High School 
No. 10 Flight- Tamworth 
No. 11 Flight - Homebush Boys High School 
No. 12 Flight - Newington College 
No. 13 Flight - Dubbo 
No. 14 Flight - Wollongong 
No. 15 Flight- RAAF Fairbairn 
No. 16 Flight- Blacksmiths 
No. 17 Flight- Taree 
No. 18 Flight- Mascot 
No. 19 Flight- Inverell 
No. 20 Flight- Liverpool Boys High School 
No. 21 Flight- Newcastle Boys High School 
No. 22 Flight- West Ryde 
No. 23 Flight- St Marys 
New South Wales Air Training Corps 
No. 24 Flight- Cleveland Street Boys High School 
No. 25 Flight- Goulburn 
No. 26 Flight - Lismore 
No. 27 Flight - Squadron Headquarters 
No. 28 Flight- Bathurst 
No. 29 Flight- Orange 
No. 30 Flight- Manly Boys High School 
Victorian Air Training Corps 
Headquarters situated at Melbourne Establishment - 980 
No. 1 Flight- RAAF Frognall 
No. 2 Flight- Preston 
No. 3 Flight- Brighton 
No. 4 Flight - Squadron Headquarters 
No. 5 Flight- Preston 
No. 6 Flight - Frankston 
No. 9 Flight- RAAF East Sale 
No. 11 Flight - Footscray 
No. 14 Flight - Squadron Headquarters 
No. 15 Flight- Melbourne High School 
No. 16 Flight - Squadron Headquarters 
No. 17 Flight - Brighton 
No. 23 Flight- Mildura 
No. 25 Flight- Ballarat 
No. 26 Flight - Morwell 
No. 27 Flight- Geelong 
Tasmanian Air Training Corps 
Headquarters situated at Hobart Establishment - 450 
Strength- 269 
No. 1 Flight - Squadron Headquarters 
No. 2 Flight - Launceston 
No. 4 Flight- Burnie 
No. 5 Flight- Claremont State High School 
No. 6 Flight- Rose Bay High School 
No. 8 Flight - Launceston 
No. 10 Flight - Squadron Headquarters 
No. 11 Flight - Squadron Headquarters 
No. 12 Flight - Brooks High School Launceston 
South Australian Air Training Corps 
Headquarters situated at Adelaide Establishment- 480 
Strength- 383 
No. 1 Flight - Squadron Headquarters 
No. 2 Flight - Squadron Headquarters 
No. 3 Flight- Renmark 
No. 4 Flight - Squadron Headquarters . 
No. 5 Flight - Squadron Headquarters 
No. 6 Flight - Squadron Headquarters 
No. 7 Flight - Squadron Headquarters 
No. 8 Flight- Gawler 
No. 9 Flight- St Peter's College 
No. 10 Flight- Westminster College 
No. 11 Flight - Squadron Headquarters 
No. 12 Flight- Mount Gambier 
No. 13 Flight- Penfield 
No. 14 Flight- Mitchell Park Technical School 
No. 1 Flight - Darwin 
Western Australia Air Training Corps 
Headquarters situated at Perth Establishment- 1,090 
Strength- 830 
No. 1 Flight- Wesley College 
No. 2 Flight - Squadron Headquarters 
No. 3 Flight- Fremantle 
No.  4  Flight - Squadron Headquarters 
No. 5 Flight- Albany 
No.  7  Flight- Squadron Headquarters 
No. 8 Flight-South Perth 
Western Australia Air Training Corps 
No. 9 Flight- Kalgoorlie 
No. 10 Flight- Bunbury 
No. 11 Flight- Scotch College 
No. 12 Flight- Belmont 
No. 13 Flight- Maddington 
No. 14 Flight - Squadron Headquarters 
No. 15 Flight- Belmont 
No. 16 Flight - Squadron Headquarters 
The Royal Australian Air Force Reserve instructor strength at 31st March 1971 was 510 officers and 210 airmen. 
The number of Permanent Air Force staff currently employed at A.T.C. duties is 111 - 29 officers and 82 airmen. 
The estimated annual cost of maintain A.T.C. cadets in camps is assessed at $609,000 comprising: 

<graphic href="049232197108183_36_0.jpg"></graphic>

The administration cost includes pay for Citizen Air Force instructors and casual civilian employees and fares for instructors and cadets to and from the camps. 

<graphic href="049232197108183_36_1.jpg"></graphic>

The Minister for the Navy has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
About 15 years ago. 
For approximately 10 years up to 1970. A new product, Slickmulso, has recently been adopted. 
The Naval Technical Services. 
Yes. 
The Minister for the Navy has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
There are  three  forms of entry for young men: Firstly - As Cadet Midshipmen  at the  Royal 
Australian Naval College at Jervis Bay where officer training is commenced. 
Secondly - As Naval Artificer Apprentices at HMAS Nirimba, near Quakers Hill in Sydney - where all apprentice training is conducted. 
Thirdly - As Junior Recruits at HMAS Leeuwin in Fremantle, Western Australia - where training as sailors commences. 
Young men are tested with the forms of testing appropriate to the type of entry, undergo medical examinations and are interviewed by Recruiting Staff Officers and Psychologists before selections. 
Psychiatry, as such, plays no part in the selection of young men entering the Navy. 
Selections are done very carefully and only a proportion of those who apply are taken. For example, in 1970, a total of 18,558 men and women enquired about service in the RAN as sailors and WRANS. Of that number 6,910 applied, and from this number of applicants, 1,973 selections were made. 
Selection procedures are closely watched and their predictive value followed up. They are considered satisfactory. Dismissal of any of those responsible for the selection of Naval Personnel is not contemplated. 
The Minister forthe Environment, Aborigines and the Arts has provided me with the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
I am advised by the Australian Council for the Arts that: 
The Vincent Library differs markedly from the Film Division of the Australian National Library in purpose and operation, and although it may be expected to hold a small number of films in common with the National Library, its specialist collection of Australian films will not duplicate the holdings of the National Library. The Vincent Library is designed as a distribution and exhibition service for the films it holds and is the principal exhibition outlet of the Council's Experimental Fund. It will charge a rental fee for its services, part of which will be used to repay loans made from the Fund, and will actively seek to widen public interest in experimental films. It will promote the non-commercial screening of its films at schools, film societies and film festivals. It is expected to be a catalyst in the educational sphere and in the understanding of the art and technique of film-making. It is expected that consultation with the National Library in connection with distribution arrangements will avoid overlap in that area. The Vincent Library will also develop an active sales function and will aim to find outlets in commercial cinema and on television for the best of the experimental films. It is also hoped that the best of the films may be sold overseas. 
Preservation copies of all films and film material made with the assistance of the Experimental Film and Television Fund will be held on behalf of the Commonwealth by the Vincent Library acting in conjunction with the Australian Council for the Arts. Steps are being taken to ensure that the National Library holds copies of selected films made with the assistance of the Fund. 
The Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts has provided me with the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
In December 1970 the Council of the National Library undertook a review of the adequacy of the resources available to conduct the Library's film archive activities. It was concluded that some increase in staff was necessary, but proposals for expansion are not being pursued at present having regard to current restrictions on Government spending. The National Library has expended funds on the copying of historical films up to the limit that could be handled by the staff available. 
The National Library provided a sum of $30,000 in 1970-71 for the purchase of film study material. This material is being acquired specifically with the National Film and Televison Training School in mind. Both the National Library and the Interim Council of the National Film and Televison Training School expect there to be close co-operation in this area when the School is set up. 
It is the intention that the National Library's film resources should be brought to international standard just as soon as this is practicable, having regard to the availability of funds and overall priorities. Progress is already being made in this direction and the Library is actively engaged in seeking out film material for the archive. The Library is also engaged in planning nitrate and acetate film vaults to replace the temporary storage facilities currently being used. 
For the information of  honourable  senators I present a report on the activites and developments of the Department of Supply for the year ended 30th June 1971. 
1 will have to seek that information and will endeavour to give it to the honourable senator on the next sitting day. 
I did hear the report referred to by the honourable senator. I understand from my inquiries that a number of sources are seeking information from the Government on this matter. However, the only answer I can give at this stage is that at present the Government is closely studying the position and no doubt will provide an answer in respect of this matter later. 
I feel sure the honourable senator realises that I do not have the information in detail which he requires. I shall seek it for him and let him have it. 
Pursuant to section 18 of the Wheat Research Act 1957 I present the thirteenth annual report on activities under the Act for the year ended 31st December 1970. 
Although aware of some of the points the honourable senator has raised, this is a policy matter and I will seek information from the Minister for Primary Industry. I ask the honourable senator to put his question on notice. 
I will have to make inquiries about the matter. The honourable senator knows that at present butter is selling on the British market at £stg460 a ton, so that the pdc: referred to by the honourable senator would have to exceed that price. The honourable senator will recall that earlier this year Australian butter producers were receiving only £stg290 a ton for Australian butter. However, I will make inquiries and let the honourable senator have some further information on the matter. 
I have seen the report referred to by the honourable senator. 1 understand that  Colonel McArthur, Chairman  of the Australian Meat Board, was addressing a conference of the Graziers' Association of Victoria. He referred to synthetic meats, the apathy of producers in this country and the inroads that synthetics had made into other industries in the past. I understand that he also referred to the production of synthetic meats in the United States of America, which is a very large market for Australian meats, and said that already General Foods and Dupont were making synthetic meat. I believe that the producers in this country have to produce an article that will meet the market throughout the world, because if they do not and we lose our sales in these markets this could have a very drastic effect on the only section of primary industry at the present time thai is holding its own as far as economics are concerned. 
What action has the Australian Meat Board taken? In 1970 - I think in November - a co-ordination committee was set up by representatives of the Australian Meat Board, the New Zealand Meat Board and the American producers of lamb with the idea of promoting lamb in America. I understand that since that committee was set up it has turned more towards the promotion of meat generally. It is spending considerable money in America educating all sections of the community to eat more meat. At the present time a sizeable amount of our meat to America goes to the hamburger and sausage trades and no doubt this is where the producers of synthetics will aim. This is the point on which we have to concentrate. I understand the situation is being met by this committee set up by the 3 meat boards in Australia, New Zealand and America. 
The honourable senator has asked me a series of questions and if I had to answer them in detail it would take nearly an hour. I did go to the Paris Air Show at the invitation of the French Government. While there I saw a number of modern strike and fighter aircraft. Having seen some of them in action, including our own Mirage and its successor, I then had talks with some of the manufacturers of those aircraft. In all cases 1 stressed the point of offset manufacture in Australia. I was accompanied by the representatives of the then Minister for Supply who also were having discussions with the manufacturers there. At present it is not expected that the Mirage will be phased out until the second half of the 1970s, that is, between 1975 and 1982. It will have to go out of operation by 1982. At present my Department is carrying out a very detailed evaluation of all possible aircraft available. 
The honourable senator mentioned the Fill. This is a subject on its own. I can 

 Questions give no further information on it. The honourable senator will recall that in May last year, following the visit to the United States of the then Minister for Defence,  Mr Fraser,  the Fraser-Laird agreement, which included a clause providing for certain tests to be carried out, was announced. Upon completion of those tests it was expected that the Australian Government would be in a position to make a decision by the end of this year. Since that agreement certain of the tests have slipped. 
 What I mean by that is that they have slipped behind in time. To get an indication whether those slips would mean that a decision could still be made in November or whether it would have to be made early next year. 1 sent senior officers of the Department to America to report on the situation. 
 Apparently  Senator Keeffe  does not want to hear this answer. Those officers have returned. They have submitted a report to the Department of Air and to the Department of Defence. That report is being studied carefully, with a view to making a report to the Minister for Defence and to the Minister for Air. I hope that later the Minister for Defence will be in a position to make a submission to Cabinet as to whether a decision can be made at the end of the year. 
The honourable senator mentioned a carry-over of 165 million bushels of wheat. I think we can do even better than that. It has been estimated by the Australian Wheat Board that by 30th November the Board probably will have a carry over of 150 million bushels only. If this is the situation the Board will have had an ali time record sale of wheat. In selling our wheat we have had unusually strong demand from some Middle East countries because of crop failures in those countries. There have been heavy shipments to the United Arab Republic, which is an important market which was re-established last year. We have made a re-entry to the important market of South Korea, and we have made further sales to other countries which for some considerable time have been our customers. Although we were able to move wheat quickly in the first part of the season, unfortunately it is expected that the movement of wheat from Australia will be slower for the remainder of the season. If that does happen the honourable senator's figure of 165 million bushels could be right but, as I said, the Board is expecting a carry-over of about 150 million bushels. 
I cannot help the honourable senator with his inquiry. The Budget outlines a scheme for wool deficiency payments to assist the industry. It is for one year and will apply to the wool clip of 1971-72. It is based on an average greasy price of 36c a lb. I understand that the Minister for Primary Industry will be making a statement on how this is to operate at some later period. I believe it will be early next week but I am not sure of that last point. That is the only information  I  can give the honourable senator. 
On Tuesday  Senator Hannan  asked me the following question: 1 direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Is the Australian Wheat Board a Commonwealth statutory corporation? Does it have its own corporate seal? How is it financed? Can it sue and be sued in its own name? Is it a fact that the Australian Wheat Board does not make an annual report to the Parliament? If not, is there any particular reason for this exemption? If this exemption is in fact allowed, is such exemption allowed to any other Commonwealth instrumentalities? If so, which instrumentalities are they?" 
I now provide the following answer: 
The Australian Wheat Board is a statutory corporation. In the words of the Wheal Industry Stabilization Act 1968-1970 the Board is  . . a body corporate with perpetual succession and a common seal . . . and is capable of suing and being sued in its corporate name.' 
The Board derives some of its powers from State legislation. 
The whole of the costs incurred in the operations of the Board are met from the proceeds of the sale of wheat delivered to and sold by the Board. Thus the cost of marketing wheat becomes a deduction from returns to growers. 
In the first instance the Wheat Board borrows money from the Rural Credits Department of the Reserve Bank to pay a first advance to growers and to meet pool expenses. The overdraft is repaid from sales proceeds and ultimately the Board's operations are financed by the growers who deliver wheat to it. 
The Board's enabling legislation does not require it to make an annual report to Parliament. 
There are more than 50 Commonwealth statutory corporations which are responsible to a range of Ministers. So far as statutory marketing boards operating under the jurisdiction of the Minister for Primary Industry are concerned, those other than the Wheat Board are required by the terms of their respective legislation to report to Parliament. The Wheat Board however is unique in being the sole marketing authority operating under complementary Commonwealth and State legislation. 
Under this legislation the Board operates a pooling and equalisation arrangement. Its accounts are necessarily on a pool rather than an annual basis. The duration of pools varies. The last of the wheat of the 1968-69 Pool for example, was not shipped until the latter part of July 1971 and it will not be possible to finalise the accounts for that Pool until about the end of the year. 
It would not be meaningful for Wheat Board accounts to be drawn up on an annual basis with a balance sheet in which the overwhelming item would be a large quantity of unsold wheat, probably of two or more seasons. 
The basis on which the Board operates and accounts for its operations is considered to be in the good interests of the industry. Pool accounts are published within a reasonable time after the completion of each Pool. 
Yesterday  Senator Keeffe  asked me a question about the use of the Royal Australian Air Force crash boat at Townsville on 8th August. From inquiries made, I can confirm that the RAAF crash boat at Townsville was used on 8th August 1971 and that the boat left Townsville at approximately 7.30 a.m. and returned at approximately 6.30 p.m. The launch was used to convey the Minister for the Army and bis wife on a trip from Townsville. Other passengers on the boat were Brigadier Thompson, Commander of the Third Army Task Force, and  Mrs Thompson,  Group Captain and  Mrs Cannon,  3 Army captains and the RAAF crew. I can assure the honourable senator that economies are being practised by my Department. The cost of keeping the launch at sea on this occasion was approximately $294. 
I remind the honourable senator that from time to time requests are made to me for the use of the boat. No doubt he will recall an occasion on 31st May 1971 when a request was made to me by  Mr Bryant  of the Opposition's Aborigines Committee. He requested the use of the crash boat to visit Palm Island. I was informed that the local agent was  Senator Keeffe.  Obviously  Senator Keeffe  made the arrangement. Quite obviously  Senator Keeffe  accompanied the Committee on that trip. There is nothing wrong with this. I make the boat available on such requests. 
Pursuant to section 23 of the Egg Export Control Act 1947-1966 I present the twenty-third annual report of the Australian Egg Board on the operation of the Act for the year ended 30th June 1970 together with financial statements and the report of the AuditorGeneral on those statements. An interim report of the Board was presented to the Senate on 22nd September 1970. 
For the information of honourable senators 1 present the interim report of the Australian Meat Research Committee for the year ended 30th June 1971. When the final report is available it will be presented in accordance with statutory requirements. 
For the information of honourable senators I present the preliminary report of the Australian Dairy Produce Board for the year ended 30th June 1971. When the final report is available I shall table it in accordance with statutory requirements. 
I cannot tell the honourable senator what limits will be fixed. I do not think anyone outside the Wool Commission could tell him what limits will be fixed. At a later hour of the day I will be making a statement in this place on behalf of the Minister for Primary Industry. In regard to the last part of the honourable senator's question, I think there is an attachment to that statement which shows the position. 
For the information of honourable senators, I present the official report of the Australian Parliamentary Delegation to Thailand, Laos, Cambodia and Vietnam. 
At the present time no orders have been placed by the Department of Air for this aircraft. Studies and discussions are proceeding between the Department of Air, the Department of the Army and the Department of Defence on the role that this aircraft could play in both Army and Air Force operations. 
The naval base at Cockburn Sound is due to be completed in 1975. It is at present planned to include in it an armament depot which will be capable of supporting 4 escort ships and 3 submarines for periods up to 12 months. In addition, it will be capable of providing support for the Royal Australian Navy and allied units and it would be suitable for the berthing of nuclear powered vessels and the minor servicing of their conventional equipment as distinct from their nuclear equipment. The Navy has no plans at present for dry docking facilities at this base nor has it plans to provide facilities for the time being for the servicing of nuclear propulsion ships. It is not envisaged that patrol boats will be based there in the foreseeable future, but the facility will be capable of supporting patrol boats. 
On 
Thursday last, in response to a question asked by  Senator Davidson  on this matter, I made the point that the meat boards of Australia and New Zealand, together with the producer organisations in America, had set out on a joint promotion campaign for the sale of lamb, which is now being extended to red meat. I do not want to go over that portion of the question; but, in regard to the portion of  Senator Laucke's  question in which he asks me whether legislation will be introduced to outlaw synthetic meats, I would have to approach the Minister for Primary Industry on that matter and discuss it with him before I could give the honourable senator an answer. 
When this report came out it referred to some information that had been given a long time previously to the committee that was inquiring into this matter. Therefore, to a certain extent the information was out  cf  date. The Australian Government and the Royal Australian Air Force are well aware of the capabilities of the Phantom and of any little problems encountered in flying it. The modifications to the aircraft that have been spoken of would be only small ones. These modifications will be made if the American authorities agree that they are necessary in the interests of safety. I do not have any details in regard to the other information sought by the honourable senator, but I will make inquiries and, if 1 can give some further information to the honourable senator, I will do so. 
by leave - The Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  announced in the Budget Speech provision for deficiency payments, if required, to give wool growers an assured return during the 1971-72 season. Legislation to establish detailed conditions for the payments will be introduced into the Senate in the near future. In the meantime, to remove uncertainty, it is appropriate that I furnish the Senate with further particulars of what is intended. 
The course of wool prices in 1970-71 gave the Government cause for grave concern. In the previous year, returns from sales of greasy wool had fallen drastically. This was compounded by severe drought in extensive areas of Australia. Seasonal conditions improved somewhat in 1970-71 but wool prices continued to fall, attaining an average price of only 29.34c per lb, the lowest point in 24 years. Taking into account the considerable increases in costs over the period it was in real terms a far lower price than that which growers were receiving 24 years earlier. In these circumstances it was necessary to consider what action was needed to assist farmers because of low wool prices. I say 'farmers' advisedly because most wool growers - other than some in the pastoral zone - derive part of their income from other enterprises, such as beef cattle, mutton, lamb, wheat and coarse grains. For a large segment of the farming community the wool price is an important determinant of income. Indeed, out of Australia's 200,000 farm enterprises about 90.000 run more than 200 sheep. 
Last year at this time returns from wool declined to the point where it was decided to provide up to $30m by way of special emergency assistance. This was made available to wool growers earning more than one third of their income from wool and suffering not less than an 8 per cent fall in their gross returns from wool below the previous year. In the event wool growers received some $2 1.3m, an average of over $1,000 for each person meeting the conditions. The 1970-71 wool selling season opened before this scheme was put into effect and shortly after the opening prices fell to 28c per lb greasy. It was in this context that the Australian Wool Commission was set up to even out fluctuations in the market. It commenced to operate on 16th November 1970. The Commission, after a short period when prices firmed a little, was confronted with a further weakening in demand. From January to June 1971 it therefore held its reserve prices firm at around the December closing levels. 
Early in 1971, following an urgent examination of the need for reconstruction in primary industries, the rural reconstruction scheme involving the provision of $100m over 4 years was introduced. In this year's Budget $40m of this allocation has been made available for the respective State administrative authorities for debt reconstruction and farm build-up purposes. For some farmers this provision will offer  a  way out of present difficulties. 
The extent of the problem in the industry is best demonstrated by the marked decline in farmers' wool income. Gross returns from wool fell from $839m in 1968-69 to $547m in 1970-71. Four out of the last 6 years have been ones of low income and for many associated with the industry accumulated debts are now imposing an impossible burden. During 1970-71 about 50,000 of the 90,000 woolgrowers were estimated to have had less than a $2,000 net farm income from which to live after servicing their debts. The critical income situation affects not only these wool growers but also the approximately one million people who are wholly or partly dependent on the wool industry in various ways. 
The best advice available to the Government suggests that some improvement can be expected in wool prices. Accurate prediction is virtually impossible because of the many factors having a bearing on the price. The recent action by  President  Nixon to protect the United States' economy has, moreover, introduced a new and complicating factor in the consideration of prices and the demand for wool in the 1971-72 season. Nevertheless, there has been evidence that the general recession in the whole of the textile industry is passing and trade assessments have been for an improvement in wool purchases in the coming year. In these circumstances, the Government has decided to supplement market returns on wool, to the extent that may be necessary, by deficiency payments. In this way growers will receive on all shorn wool, other than specified types of inferior wool, a return corresponding to an average price for the whole clip of 36c per lb greasy for 1971-72. In metric terms, which are now to be used in the wool trade, this is 79.37c per kilo. This price is significantly above the closing level of the market at the end of the 1970-71 season but, on the other hand, is capable of being reached if the market recovers. The position of the wool industry will again be reviewed in the light of demand and prices ruling towards the end of this financial year. 
Honourable senators will be aware that at this level of prices, extensive industry adjustments will still be needed. The assistance to be provided is considered to be the minimum required to provide some counter to the present very serious situation. A return of 79.37c per kilo average will offer a reasonably firm base for immediate planning by producers and others associated with the industry. More generally this assistance will provide the much needed breathing space to enable adjustments to take place without the economic and social disruption which would otherwise occur. It will give time to see what does happen to the market for wool. In addition, it will allow some settlement of unsecured debts in rural communities very dependent on servicing the wool industry. 
It is quite unrealistic to suggest that the deficiency payments scheme will impede or hinder the rural reconstruction scheme by encouraging to stay on their properties people who have no long term prospects of viability. The number of people who, unfortunately, will have to leave the industry even at the assured price levels is such as to present a reconstruction task as large as is manageable in one year. Certainly decisions affecting the permanent future of those who can carry on with only a modest price increase should not be made on the basis of price levels which we all hope are temporarily depressed below the long term trend. 
It is with these factors in mind that I would like to outline some details of the operation of the deficiency payments scheme. It is intended that use will be made of the existing facilities of the Australian Wool Commission which, as an agent of the Commonwealth, will assist in distributing payments to wool growers through the agency of brokers and private wool merchants. Wool of certain inferior types, amounting to about 10 per cent of the clip, will not be eligible for deficiency payments. These inferior types frequently are not in strong demand and if they bore the full costs of handling and marketing would sometimes be sold at a loss. I table for the information of honourable members a list of the inferior types which will be excluded. With the concurrence of honourable senators I incorporate that list in Hansard. 
Under the scheme outlined by me yesterday in the Senate, the individual wool grower will receive the market price for his wool plus a set percentage calculated as the deficiency payment for the week of the sale. At the end of the week the registered brokers will supply to the Australian Wool Commission a list of the growers, the clients, who sold wool plus the amount of deficiency payment due to them. The Commission will pay to each broker a lump sum of money to be divided amongst his clients. The honourable senator will have to bear with me because I have not seen the Bill as printed at the present time, but I understand that the deficiency payment will then follow the normal course of receipts from ordinary wool sales, that is, if the grower has a lien against his clip the amount involved will be deducted by the broker from the receipts - the market price plus the deficiency payment - and the remainder will then be passed on to the grower. 
I think that the Lavarack Barracks will be at Townsville for a very long time to come. As the honourable senator understands, at the present time 2 battalions are stationed there. I have no knowledge of any plans which will shift the barracks for some years to come. 
I do not have as close a relationship with the AWU as the honourable senator has and I have not seen the report. If the honourable senator will provide me with it I will take note of what he has said and will see what I can do about it. 
The honourable senator has asked me a question in respect of which if I replied 'yes' I would be wrong, and if I replied 'no' I would be wrong, because of the various types of wool involved. The situation is that wool sold through private treaty will, if those dealers are registered, attract deficiency payments by the dealers periodically sending forward to the Australian Wool Commission the names of the growers, the price paid, the type of wool and the total amount of deficiency payment. The Commission will check these figures and see whether the total deficiency payment is correct or not. It will return the money to the registered dealers to be distributed amongst the growers. 
On the other hand, if a private treaty dealer does not want to be registered, then at the first sale there will be no deficiency payment. The unregistered dealer will pay the market value, or whatever he is offering, but the grower and the dealer will sign a document which will be forwarded on when the wool is sold to a registered dealer or sold across the auction floor. It is the second registered dealer who will then carry out the deficiency payment procedure in the course that I have outlined. But this is a very difficult situation to describe in an answer given at question time. 
First of all, I want to say to the honourable senator that I did not put him off last week. No statement had been made at that time, and I do not think I would be responsible if I answered otherwise. 
The honourable senator is asking me a hypothetical question at question time and expecting an answer. The situation is that at the end of each auction week an average price of the clip sold throughout Australia will be ascertained. There will be also a notional price fixed for that sale. A percentage will be worked out which will be the average prices for the sale which will be subtracted or added to the notional price. That percentage will then be added to the market price of the individual's wool. 
1 have no doubt that there is a good reason why the Australian Egg Board's report for 1969-70 was not available until 24th August, but I shall certainly draw the honourable senator's question to the attention of the Minister for Primary Industry. As to the Western Austraiian scheme, 1 feel that it has hardly been in operation long enough to determine its impact - the benefits or otherwise - but 1 shall make certain inquiries to see what information can be gained for the honourable senator. 
I have attempted to answer 3 questions on this subject this afternoon but I think that one is a bit difficult for me, as J have no available information on the matter. I ask the honourable senator to put it on notice. 
1 think that what the honourable senator said is possible. The grower will receive the auction price plus a deficiency payment. However 1 do not think it is fair of him to ask me whether a hypothetical position is true. 1 shall look at the matter and inform the honourable senator later. 
It is true as the honourable senator says that some employees in the aircraft industry have been given notices of termination of employment. The Government is offering every assistance it can to find them alternative employment. It has taken up this matter with the Public Service Board, the Department of Labour and National Service and the Australian Council of Trade Unions. All of these bodies have offered assistance in one way or another. Over the years the Royal Australian Air Force has continually given work to the aircraft industry in relation to the aircraft now in use in the Air Force, and no mean work load has been involved. I assure the hon ourable senator that as far as possible it is expected- 
When an aircraft like the Sabre is phased out the work load must be reduced. Only the other day the Royal Australian Air Force presented to the Department of Supply a special case in regard to the Canberra aircraft. In the latter part of the question the honourable senator asked whether I would make inquiries as to what work is available from State and Commonwealth departments. I have not that information at present but I shall seek it and let the honourable senator have it. 
There have been complaints from time to time throughout the Services in regard to pay matters, both on a comparison with alternative civilian employment and between the ranks. The honourable senator will recall that earlier this year the Kerr Committee was set up to investigate the pay and conditions of service. It has just completed a tour on which it interviewed Army representatives of all ranks as well as all ranks in other Services in regard to pay matters. The Kerr Committee has made a recommendation which the Government has accepted. At the present time, particularly in my own Service, there are men in the field with tapes and documents explaining the various pay groupings to the troops and answering any questions they have. I feel that by the time these people have toured all the camps and bases and explained the new pay groupings to the troops there will be a better understanding of the position. 
I understand that an estimate has been made of the indebtedness of wool growers and that it is $ 1,200m. I understand ako that it is estimated that the interest bill for 1970- 71 will be $10Om. It has been estimated that this bill will, absorb from one-quarter to one-third of the total net income of wool growers during 1970-71. 1 point out to the honourable senator, however, that the position is magnified a great deal if we include the wheat growers because the total indebtedness of those 2 groups to the institutional lenders could be as high as $2,000m, and to the private sector a further $630m. It is true that wool growers are heavily indebted to stores, agencies and other services in country towns. I understand that the Minister for Primary Industry has had talks with institutional lenders and with stock firms, and that they recognise this situation and have agreed to carry out a policy whereby reasonable and restrained efforts will be made to assist these people. The Minister has assured me that he believes that this policy is being carried out. I point out that the Government recognises the situation. That is why it has introduced a rural reconstruction plan to assist wool growers. No doubt the introduction of legislation to provide deficiency payments will give further confidence to the pastoral houses and to the banking institutions to make provision for rural debts. 
Having seen only the same report as the honourable senator has seen and not knowing what was in  Mr Vine's  speech, I could not name the people concerned. I suggest that the honourable senator write to  Mr Vines  and ask him for a copy of his speech. 
As I said in reply to the last question asked of me I have seen this article and I read with interest about the introduction of a new knitting machine which, from all accounts, is supposed to be a high speed fine gauge machine which produces a fabric to replace woollen fabrics as tailoring material. Of course, this does pose a very difficult situation for the wool industry because from a recent survey in Sydney and Melbourne of 15 leading manufacturers of woven material we found that there have been drastic falls in production, and these falls were due to a demand for knitted fabric. I understand that fashions these days, particularly in women's outer wear, are demanding knitted fabric. If this machine can speed up the knitting process then it will pose a very difficult situation for the wool industry because the wool industry has to bridge that gap. I quite understand  Mr Vine's  interest in this machine. 
The matter referred to by the honourable senator is the scheme introduced under the State Grants (Rural Reconstruction) Act 1971. Honourable senators will recall that that legislation went through the Senate last session and was assented to on 25th May. The Act provides for an agreement between the States for a rural reconstruction scheme and appropriates SI 00m for that purpose. I understand that all States signed the agreement in June last and that all States with the exception of Tasmania have provided assistance under the scheme. Each State has set up an authority, operated within the State and by the State, to which applications are made by farmers who seek assistance. 
For more than an hour now we have listened to a case built up by  Senator Byrne  to the effect that a decision made by the Senate in May, during the last sessional period, has caused an injustice. We have listened very carefully to  Senator Byrne,  but despite all his long experience in this place, despite his legal training and despite his practice in law, I cannot agree with him. 
That is all right,  Senator Gair.  1 want to take the Senate back firstly to  Senator Byrne's  opening remarks when he referred to this decision being taken at a time when the personnel of the Senate was totally different from what it is today. 1 remind honourable senators that at the time this decision was taken there were 12 senators who are not here at the present time. Today we have 12 new senators who have not the background and who have not heard the arguments put forward in this case. Yet  Senator Byrne  is asking that these men and women make a decision tonight that an injustice has occurred. 

 Senator Byrne's motion suggests that the penalty imposed on the 2 editors concerned following the recommendation of the Committee of Privileges should be revoked. What would be the effect of this? The effect would" be that the breach of privilege which was found to have been committed by the premature publication of extracts from a committee report would be allowed to pass without a penalty of any degree. The original penalty, a reprimand, was recommended hy the Committee which had considered the matter upon reference from the Senate. It heard evidence from the 2 gentlemen concerned who were completely unrestricted in their appearance, and selected a reprimand from the range of possible penalties, including no penalty at all. 
For the benefit of the new senators let us. go back over the case. We had a situation where some premature reports were printed in 2 weekly newspapers as to what they believed would be the recommendations of the Senate Select Committee on Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse in Australia. On 4th May 1971  Senator Marriott,  who was  Chairman  of the Select Committee, moved the following motion in the Senate: 
That the article on page 1 of the 'Sunday Australian' of 2nd May 1971 and the article on page 845 of the 'Sunday Review' of 2nd May 1971, dealing with the proposed report of the Senate Select Committee on Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse in Australia, be referred to a Committee of Privileges for investigation and report. 
After hearing arguments on this matter from  Senator Marriott  the Senate agreed to the motion and the matter was referred to a Committee of Privileges of this Senate. I understand that the Committee had never met in the 70 years history of this Senate. Yet this matter was referred to the Committee for its decision. On 13th May the Committee brought down a report. The report is a document which is available to all honourable senators to read. On reading the report we find that the Committee held its first meeting on the day following the moving of the motion in the Senate. After discussion the Committee interpreted its reference from the Senate as raising only the possible breach of privilege by the newspapers referred to in the motion and considered that the reference did not entitle the Committee to inquire into and report upon the question of how the information contained in the draft report came to the knowledge of, or into the hands of, the newspapers concerned. 
The Committee held 6 meetings and heard evidence from  Senator Marriott, Mr Walsh,  the managing editor of the 'Sunday Review', and  Mr Rothwell,  the editor of the 'Sunday Australian'. If one looks into the minutes of these meetings one finds that at the meeting on 6th May the Committee decided to discuss the action to be taken by the Committee. It was of the opinion that a prima facie case of breach of privilege had been committed by the premature publication in the newspaper articles referred to the Committee of a select committee document contrary to the provisions of standing order 308. It also decided that the editors of the 'Sunday Review' and the 'Sunday Australian' be requested to attend before the Committee and, in the event of their not agreeing to attend, action be taken to issue the necessary summons for attendance. The Committee went on to decide the matter of legal counsel and whether the witnesses appearing before it should be represented. Following a discussion it decided that the practice previously adopted by Senate committees following the House of Commons practice - as set out in May 'Parliamentary Practice', 17th edition at page 655 - should be followed. It was resolved that witnesses might be accompanied by their solicitor or counsel and might, with leave, seek advice from their solicitor or counsel during the answering of questions put by the Committee. It also decided that any submissions or representations made by witnesses should be heard by the Committee. It further decided that the right of the solicitor or counsel to make any submissions be considered by the Committee when application therefore was made. 
If we turn to the back of the report and read the minutes of the meeting held on 10th May we find that  Mr Walsh,  managing editor of the 'Sunday Review' was called and made an affirmation. First of all  Mr Walsh  was asked whether he would like to give an explanation. He told his story and was examined by various members of the Committee. 
The honourable senator made his point after this matter came into the Senate but there are honourable senators who have no background knowledge of what took place in this matter. Then we find that  Mr Walsh  withdrew and  Mr Rothwell,  the editor of the 'Sunday Australian' was called, sworn and examined.  Mr Rothwell  was accompanied by his legal adviser  Mr B.  R. Gallen who also addressed the Committee. Then if we turn to the minutes of a further meeting of the Committee, under the heading 'Future Witnesses' the following - appears: 
The  Chairman  advised the Committee that, in answer to telegrams sent to Mirror Newspapers Ltd and IPEC Ltd, replies had been received indicating that neither company wished to produce any evidence or submissions to tha Committee. 
Surely if those companies believed that their 2 editors had not had a fair go up to that stage, would not they have wanted to come and give further evidence on this matter to the Committee? Having received all this information and having cross-examined the 2 witnesses who wanted to appear before the Committee, the Committee then had further meetings in order to decide what recommendations it would put to the Senate. 
That matter was even considered by the Committee. The Committee considered whether it should recommend to the Senate that the 2 editors be reprimanded, punished or allowed to apologise. 
It could never be claimed that they did not get a fair hearing. The Committee then made its report to the Senate. I remind the Senate that 12 members of the Senate at that time are not now members of the Senate. The Senate, as then consituted, agreed to the Committee's recommendation without any variation or any suggestion as to how the reprimand was to be effected. The Senate's decision was taken without any dissent or comment.  Senator Byrne  and his colleagues, if they had wished, could have approached the  President  of the Senate and made their fears known to him. They could have stood in their places in this Senate and said what they believed should be done, but they chose not to do so. 
If 

 Senator Byrne believes that there is further evidence to indicate that an injustice has been done, he has every right to stand in his place and say that an injustice has been done and to convince the Senate, as constituted today, that an injustice has been done. I listened carefully to  Senator Byrne  for more than an hour and I did not hear any indication that an injustice has been done to these 2 men. 
I have not had the legal training of  Senator Gair  or his colleagues, but I listened carefully to  Senator Byrne,  and nothing he said convinces me that an injustice has been done and that I should change the opinion that I held at the time when the Committee made its report. Finally, may I say that many of the matters to which  Senator Byrne  has referred are presently before the Committee for investigation. I, as  Chairman  of the Committee, think it is inappropriate that I should go on and say anything further about those matters. The Committee consisted of seven of the most experienced senators in this chamber, including 4 legal men. Surely they would be wary at all times to ensure that no injustice occurred. Therefore, I cannot support the motion moved by  Senator Byrne. 
The 
Australian Government does make money available, through the Australian Wool Board, to the International Wool Secretariat which is responsible for the promotion of wool throughout the consumer countries of the world. Recently .1 was in London and I paid a visit to the International Wool Secretariat and spent some time with the executive officers of that body discussing wool and wool promotion. The officers informed me at the time that as well as conducting a wool campaign they intended to conduct a blend campaign, and that they would be bringing out an emblem for blends as they had done for pure wool. So there is no doubt that funds made available by the Australian Government through the Australian Wool Bureau to the International Wool Secretariat will be used in the blend campaign. I shall have to seek some advice from the Minister for Primary Industry on the remainder of the question. 
When I have made inquiries from the Minister for Primary Industry I shall let the honourable senator know the result. 
During the course of a statement on wool deficiency payments the Minister for Primary Industry mentioned the sheep skin industry. If my memory is correct, the Minister said at that time that the Department of Primary Industry would keep a careful watch on the situation and that it would review the position at a later stage. That being the case, I am sure that the Department would be aware of the situation to which the honourable senator has referred. However, I will refer the particular point that the honourable senator has raised to the attention of the Minister for Primary Industry. 
I did deliver an address, but 1 did not blame parliamentarians. I said that much of the propaganda and the bad odour associated with the Fill had been brought about by parliamentarians, the media and people who, for their own personal reasons, wanted to deride the aircraft. 
Apparently the honourable senator does not want to hear an answer to his question. I remind him that there have been fewer crashes of Fill aircraft during their first 80,000 hours than of any other aircraft in the FI 00 series, which have given great service in the past. Also I point out to the honourable senator that apparently he is not aware that Fill aircraft do fly. At present 252 of these aircraft are in operation in America and 79 are in operation with the American squadrons in the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following question to the honourable senator's question: 
Yes, the former Minister for Primary Industry did issue such a Press statement on 30th September 1970. 
The Bureau of Agricultural Economics convened the fust National Agricultural Outlook Conference in Canberra from 9th to 11th February 1971. The main aim of the Conference was to provide prima ry producers with accurate and uptodate information for the Conference, papers were presented by leading authorities from primary producer organisations, marketing bodies and State and Commonwealth Departments. The Conference was attended by some 300 representatives of producer organisations, State Government Departments, marketing boards, scientific groups, universities and business firms associated with agriculture. Primary producer representatives provided the substantial majority of those participating. The Conference was successful in that it brought together this large group of representatives to examine the market outlook for primary products and provided an opportunity for a comprehensive review of future prospects for the agricultural sector of the Australian economy. Since the Conference, the background documents and the contributed papers have been widely distributed throughout Australia. 
The next National Agricultural Outlook Conference will be held from 1st to 3rd February 1972 in Canberra. As for the 1972 Conference, invitations to participate will be issued to organisations rather than to individuals. All primary producers organised at the Commonwealth level will be invited to nominate representatives. Similar procedures will be followed for the marketing boards, State Departments and business associations. However, the number of participants who can be invited will again be limited by the availability of space in the Conference venue. In keeping with this procedure an invitation to nominate representatives will in due course be sent to the ACTU. 
The Minister for the Army has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
There are 2 tracker dogs with the Australian Army in Vietnam. 
The Army will endeavour to follow existing policy of donating them as pets to European families with suitable homes in Saigon. 
Yes. 
There are currently 12 tracker dogs and  5  pups (9 weeks old) in Australia. 
As the Army does not use 'guard' dogs there is no reason for liaison on this subject There is no formal liaison with the United States Army on the subject of tracker dogs. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
It is not intended that commission will be payable on wool deficiency payments whether these are handled by wool brokers or wool merchants. 
Pursuant to section 28 of the Dried Fruits Export Control Act 1924-1966 I present
            the forty-seventh annual report of the Australian Dried Fruits Control Board for the
            year ended 30th June 1971. 
1 have seen the report to which the honourable senator refers; but in reading it
              I noted that it said that the information was not official and it alleged that the
              information had come via North Atlantic Treaty Organisation intelligence. As far as 1
              know, there is no official Russian confirmation that such an aircraft does exist.
              However, the Air Force authorities in Australia do know that the Russians already have
              2 types of swing-wing aircraft in existence. This one would make a third. I might also
              point out that an aircraft which was referred to in the Senate last session - the
              multi-role combat aircraft being produced by Panavia in Europe - is also a swing-wing
              type of aircraft. So we can now see the swing-wing concept developing throughout the
              world in the supersonic bomber system. Quite obviously, this supports the choice of
              the Fill made by Australia in years gone by. On my recent visit to France to see the
              air display there, I saw nothing flying at that display which T believe could compare
              with the Fill. 
The honourable senator can say: 'That is not right', if he likes. Is
                that what he said? In addition I can say that the Air Force authorities know of no
                aircraft that can meet the R.A.A.F.'s requirement, other than the Fill. 
It is true that a committee has been set up, but I do not have details such as
              the names of members and how many people are on the committee. I shall ask the
              Minister for Repatriation for that information and let the honourable senator know.
            
It is quite obvious that the honourable senator has not given very much thought
              to his question because the deficiency payment which he called a subsidy came into
              force only last week. That was the first of the sales at which it operated. He asked
              when the Government intended to introduce one of the many possible acquisition
              schemes. I have not heard of the many possible acquisition schemes to which he
              referred. One federal organisation - namely, the Australian Wool and Meat Producers
              Federation - has said that the Government should have an acquisition scheme. I remind
              honourable senators that the other federal wool body has had no say on the matter to
              date. Until the wool industry decides that it wants an acquisition scheme, the
              Government is in no position to do anything about introducing one. I remind honourable
              senators that if the Commonwealth Government were to introduce an acquisition scheme
              along the lines of the acquisition scheme operated by the Australian Wheat Board, as
              some people say it should, there would have to be complementary State legislation. If
              any honourable senator believes that he can get all his State colleagues to vote for
              an acquisition scheme which will affect the electorate of each member, I think the
              time would then be ripe for an acquisition scheme. But 1 do not believe that any
              honourable senator can get his colleagues to do that at present. 
-.  Sir 
William Gunn is not a member of a State Parliament or the federal
            Parliament. I remind the honourable senator that in the early 1950s the wool industry
            asked the Government, and the Government arranged, for a referendum on an acquisition
            scheme. 
It was a reserve floor price scheme. At that time the industry had a
                considerable amount of money which the Government was holding. That referendum was
                not carried. At present the industry has no money for financing an acquisition
                scheme. I believe that the industry would have to get Commonwealth money to assist
                in such a scheme. The honourable senator's question was a lot of balderdash.
              
The 
Australian Agricultural Council has already discussed this matter. My
            own State of Western Australia has introduced a scheme to ration the production of eggs.
            I understand that other States, with the exception of Victoria, are very interested in
            the scheme. I shall certainly draw to the attention of the Minister for Primary Industry
            the question asked by the honourable senator. 
For the information of honourable senators I present the interim report of the
            Australian Wool Commission for the period between 4th November 1970 and 30th June 1971.
            When the final report is available I shall table it in accordance with statutory
            requirements. 
For the information of honourable senators I present an interim statement on the
            activities of the Australian Egg Board for the year ended 30th June 1971. When the final
            report is available it will be presented in accordance with statutory requirements.
          
For the information of honourable senators I present the interim annual report of
            the Australian Honey Board for the year ended 30th June 1971. When the final report is
            available I shall present it in accordance with statutory requirements. 
I have not any details as to why these dismissals have taken place, but I shall seek that information. 1 would not think at this stage that this is something that will snowball. In regard to the rest of the question, I think would have to refer it to the Minister for Primary Industry and obtain some information for the honourable senator. 
Pursuant to section 147 of the Defence Act 1903- 1970, I present the annual report of the Royal Military College of Australia for the period 1st February 1970 to 31st January 1971. 
I will make some inquiries from the Minister for Primary Industry on that matter and let the honourable senator have the answer. 
I will not make any attempt to answer the honourable senator's question because I believe it covers a lot of policy matters and should go on notice. However, I think I should ask the honourable senator where he gets all his information about the wool industry. 
 Yesterday  Senator Cavanagh  addressed his question to either of 2 Ministers - the 
Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport or the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry.  Senator Cotton  decided to answer the question. He has some information, so I refer the question to  Senator Cotton. 
I understand that each of the States has written to the Minister for Primary Industry expressing doubts about the effectiveness of some aspects of the rural construction scheme. . The Commonwealth's position is that it wants the scheme to be implemented in the way provided for by legislation of this Parliament and any administrative difficulties that crop up with the operation of the scheme to be reviewed. The honourable senator will recall that at the time the legislation- was before the Parliament a review period was laid down to allow the Government to introduce legislation to amend the Act before July 1972. It will be necessary for the States to get together with the Commonwealth in time for the Commonwealth to amend the Act by July 1972. 
Pursuant to  section  12 of  the  Marginal Dairy Farms 
Agreements Act 1970, I present a copy of an agreement made between the Commonwealth and the State of New South Wales in relation to the marginal dairy farms reconstruction scheme. 
I ask the honourable senator to put this question on the notice paper. I cannot carry in my head the up to date figures he seeks. 
,1 have seen the report, although it did not originate in an Adelaide newspaper; it was a report of an address given by  Mr McArthur,  the  Chairman  of the Australian Meat Board at, 1 think, a Rotary Meeting. He did point out the dangers that synthetic meat could offer to the meat industry and went on to say that the producers must produce the right type of meat if they want to keep up the sales of their product. I will certainly take up the matter of the Commonwealth getting together with the States, as the honourable senator has requested. The food and drag regulations made under the Health Act in the States provide control over the inadequate and incorrect labelling and description of goods. Therefore this matter comes under State legislation. I will direct the Minister's attention to the honourable senator's question. 
Later: 
I have some further information for  Senator Donald  Cameron on his suggestion that the Commonwealth and the States should get together in regard to implementing legislation on synthetic meats. I would point out to the honourable senator that some 2 years ago the Ministers for Agriculture in the various States agreed to take action to ensure that synthetic meats are not described as meat. At the request of the Australian Agricultural Council, the Australian Meat Board and the Animal Protection Committee are keeping all aspects of the production and sale of synthetic meats under constant review. In April the Australian Meat Board came up with a report on the labelling of imitation meat sold in Australia. All States were requested to examine their existing legislation to ensure that the definition of meat clearly specifies that it is a product derived from animals. 
I have seen the motion which was carried by the Western Australian Legislative Assembly. An official approach has been made by the Western Australian Government to the Commonwealth for a joint study in relation to the matter. I understand the matter is still under examination by the Commonwealth Government. 
Fill AIRCRAFT 
Pursuant to section 122 of the Repatriation Act 1920-71 I present the annual report of the Repatriation Commission for the year ended 30th June 1971. 
Pursuant to section 8 of the Poultry Industry Assistance Act 1965-66, I present the sixth annual report on the operation of the Act for the year ended 30th June 1971. 
To give the honourable senator the correct answer I would have to look at the lease agreement to see whether the figures that he has cited are correct. 1 shall do so and let the honourable senator have the information. 
When an RAAF aircraft crashes, an immediate inquiry is held to determine why the accident took place. It would be wrong for me to make a statement about an accident without knowing the full facts and the result of the inquiry. 
I would be glad of any information which the honourable senator has which shows that prices in Australia are so much more than the ruling prices in other countries. I shall answer only portion of the honourable senator's question because it was long and too involved. The honourable senator talks about the stockpile of 500,000 bales. Surely he is not asking the Australian Wool Commission to put those bales on the market in the present situation. I am informed that at the present time prices for wool which is not under the control of the Commission - that is the 10 per cent - are from 14 per cent to 34 per cent below the closing rates of last season. Surely the honourable senator can draw the inference from that information that if that part of the clip under the control of the Wool Commission were to suffer an equivalent drastic fall in price the situation would be catastrophic. I do not think the honourable senator would want that to happen. 
On 9th September, in reply to a question without notice by  Senator Guilfoyle,  I undertook to ascertain whether specific purpose payments for agricultural -extension assistance to the tobacco growing industry were applied only during the years 1962-63 and 1963-64 or whether this assistance is still a component of the present arrangement. 
The following information has been provided by the Minister for Primary Industry: 
Specific purpose payments by the Commonwealth to the States for assistance to the tobacco growing industry, in the form of the tobacco industry extension services grants, were made only during the years 1962-63 and 1963-64. With the re-organisation of the system of funding the Tobacco Industry Trust Account as from 1st July 1964, the tobacco industry extension services grant payments of $48,000 per annum to the States ceased and became part of the Commonwealth contribution to the Tobacco Industry Trust Account. By 1st July 1967 all projects previously supported from the tobacco extension grant had been merged into the overall research and extension programme financed from the Tobacco Industry Trust Account. 
The payment by the Commonwealth to the States of up to $37m for agricultural extension services for the 5-year period 1971-72 to 1975-76 is distinct from the several industrytrust accounts. The Commonwealth extension services grant covers all agricultural production industries, including tobacco, as an integrated agricultural extension services grant to the States. 
The Minister for the Navy has provided the following answers to the honourable senator's questions: 
It is not possible to provide costs for the very wide range of activities that may be classified as having some public relations context or purpose. The amounts spent on salaries and allowances of full time public relations staff and activities directly attributable to the functions of these staffs are as follows: 
During 1970-71 salaries of full time naval public relations personnel amounted to $107,500. Expenditure on film and photographic equipment, which includes film produced for use by recruiting officers, amounted to $66,400. The cost of other public relations activities, e.g., publication of pamphlets, was $19,539, making a total of $192,439. 
On this basis expenditure on public relations between 1968-69 and 1971-72 is: 
1968- 69-$147,593 
1969- 70- $195,766 
1970- 71-$192,439 
1971- 72- $239,500 
The present personnel establishment of the Navy's public relations branch is as follows: 
Canberra - 
Director of Public Relations 4 Journalists 1  Clerk  1 Stenographer 2ClericalAssistants 1 Films Officer 1 Film Editor 1 Film Editing Assistant 2 Assistants (photography) 1 Illustrator 
Sydney - 4 Journalists 2 Clerical Assistants 1 Stenographer 2 Photographers 
Melbourne - 1 Journalist 1 Photographer 1 Clerical Assistant 
Perth- 1 Journalist 
Civilians are taken to sea in RAN ships under a guest cruise programme and demonstrations of ship capabilities known as 'Shopwindows' are given periodically. Lists of guests who have had trips to sea are attached. Inaddition, representatives of the media have visited HMA ships on many occasions during the year but no record is held of these visits. 

<graphic href="049232197109141_16_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="049232197109141_17_4.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="049232197109141_18_0.jpg"></graphic>

PERTH 12th November 1970 
The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The sale in question was negotiated by the Australian Dairy Produce Board following the introduction of the prospective buyer by the Victorian co-operative concerned. The Board signed the contract and assumed delivery responsibility. In accordance with normal commercial practice the Board is not prepared to disclose the price details as this could operate to the disadvantage of the buyer. 
No promotion allowance is made by the Australian Dairy Produce Board for exports to new markets. A commission of 50c per cwt is provided for exports of butter made on account of the Dairy Board to markets other than the United Kingdom. The commission was increased from 40c per cwt from 1st July 1971. The abovementioned sale falls into this category and the export will be made on account of the Dairy Board by the Victorian co-operative in question. The commission allowed in respect of exports conducted on a trader-to-trader basis is $1.15 per cwt. This was increased from $1 per cwt on 1st July 1971. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The intention is that if the average weekly auction price is less than the equivalent of 36c per lb average over the whole clip, a deficiency payment will be added to the proceeds from all wool sold during that week other than excluded types This would include eligible wool sold for 70c per lb. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the Bill is to give effect to the Government's proposals in the repatriation war compensation field. The various improvements to existing pensions and allowances which were foreshadowed in the Budget Speech of the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  are incorporated in the Bill now before the Senate. These will benefit the more seriously disabled ex-servicemen and the widows and children of deceased exservicemen whose death was related to war service. Specifically the Bill provides for increased payments to ex-servicemen who are totally incapacitated from war-related disabilities or tuberculosis; to those whose incapacity allows them to work only part time or intermittently; to those who need the assistance of an attendant; to those who have lost one or more limbs or an eye; and to war widows and the children of ex-servicemen whose death was related to war service. The Schedules to the Repatriation Act express pension rates in fortnightly amounts, but it has long been the practice for honourable senators to refer to weekly amounts. I shall continue that practice. 
I shall now proceed to explain the proposed changes in more detail. The special (TPI) rate, which is payable not only to the totally and permanently disabled, but also to the war blinded and the temporarily totally incapacitated, will be increased by $3.50 to $42.50 a week. The intermediate rate of pension, which is payable to those whose incapacity from war related disabilities or tuberculosis enables them to work only part time or intermittently, and who are consequently unable to earn a living wage, will be increased by $1.75 to $30.25 a week. Attendants' allowances payable in addition to war pension to the most severely disabled ex-servicemen are to be increased. The higher rate of $14, payable to the war blinded who are also afflicted with total loss of speech or total deafness, and to those who have had both arms amputated, is to be increased by $2 to Si 6 a week. The lower rate of $8.50, which is payable to those who are blind or paralysed or have suffered severe amputations, is to be increased by $1 to $9.50 a week. 
In keeping with the tenor of the foregoing proposals, which provide improved benefits for the more seriously incapacitated, increased payments are also proposed for all those who have lost one or more limbs or an eye. Those amputees who have always been paid the equivalent of the special (TPI) rate will receive an increase of $3.50 a week. Amounts which are, in addition to pension, payable in respect of other amputations or the loss of an eye will be increased by various amounts according to the degree of incapacity suffered. The new amounts payable will range from $1.70 to $11.20 a week. Increases are also proposed in rates payable to war widows, to their children, and to those children who have lost both parents. For war widows themselves, the Bill provides on increase of $1.25, raising the rate to $17.25 a week. For the first child of an ex-serviceman whose death was. related to war service, an increase of $1 a week will be payable, while the rate payable in respect of second and subsequent children will be increased by $2 a week. The new rates for all these children will be $7 a week. For a child who has lost both parents, the increase will be $2 and the new rate will be $14 a week. 
As in the past, service pensioners are to receive the benefit of increases in age and invalid pension rates. This Bill contains a minor amendment necessary this year to incorporate into repatriation legislation those increases which do not apply automatically. Honourable senators will no doubt appreciate that, although all the war compensation increases proposed in this Bill will be paid in full, the consequent increase in income may affect those also in receipt of means test pensions. For those whose means test pensions are reduced because of their war pension increases, the reduction will vary between 10c and $1, giving an overall result of an increase. For example, a single TPI pensioner in receipt of a service pension will receive an aggregate increase of between $2.50 and $3.40 a week. On the other hand, a TPI pensioner with a wife and 2 children, who also receives a service pension, but with no other means, will receive a total family increase of $5.12 a week. This is because of various liberalisations introduced into the means test pension provisions by this Government in recent years which allow some means test pensioners to receive increases in those pensions as well as the full amount of their war pension increases. 
The Bill also appropriates the Consolidated Revenue Fund to the extent necessary to provide during the current year the additional payments to which the Bill gives effect. The foregoing amendments will come into force on the date on which the amending Act receives royal assent and the pension increases will be paid on and from the first pension payday thereafter. A table which sets out the repatriation budget details in respect of war pensions and allowances has been prepared and, for the conveniience of honourable senators, is being circulated with copies of this speech. The measures I have outlined, together with increases granted last April, represent further significant advances in repatriation measures this year. T commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Poyser)  adjourned. 
1 move: 
That  the Bill  be  now  read a  second time. 
It is the usual practice of the Government to keep the rates of pensions and allowances payable to seaman war pensioners under the Seamen's War Pensions and Allowances Act in line with the rales of pensions and allowances payable to other war pensioners under the Repatriation Act. The purpose of the Bill before the Senate is to raise, in relation to seamen, various rates of pensions and allowances in line with the increases of corresponding rates being made in the Repatriation Bill just introduced. These increases are in accordance with the higher rates announced by the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  in his Budget Speech. Clause 3 of the Bill increases the intermediate rate of war pension by$1. 75 per week to $30.25. The intermediate pension is paid to seriously disabled persons whose war caused incapacities render them incapable of working other than on a parttime basis, or intermittently. Clause 3 also increases the pension rates in respect of the children of deceased seamen coming under the Act. The weekly rate for the first child rises by$1 to$7, and the rate for each other child rises by $2 to $7, thus bringing the weekly rate of pension for each child of a deceased seaman to a uniform amount. Where the mother is dead also, the rate rises by $2 to $14 for each child. 
Clause 4 substitutes a new First Schedule to the Act to provide for an increase of $1.25 in the weekly rate of pension payable to widows of Australian mariners. The Second Schedule to the Act prescribes allowances for attendants for specially handicapped seaman pensioners. The weekly rate of $8.50 is increased to $9.50 and the $14 rate, payable where both arms have been lost, is increased to $16. The Bill does not have to provide for the increase of $3.50 to $42.50 per week in the rate of TPI pension or for various increases in the weekly amounts payable in respect of the disabilities described in the Fifth Schedule to the Repatriation Act, as the increased rates under that Act will apply automatically to seaman pensioners by virtue of section 22a of the Seamen's War Pensions and Allowances Act. As usual, the increases in pensions and allowances will be payable on the first pension pay day afterthe date on which the Bill receives the royal assent. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Poyser)  adjourned. 
I cannot add anything to what the Leader of the Government said earlier in answer to  Senator Webster.  Therefore I suggest to  Senator Poke  that he put his question on the notice paper, 
Yesterday the honourable senator asked me whether I knew of the difference in price between various countries. I said that I did not and that I would be glad of any information which he could give me. I have not received any information so I am no further enlightened than I was yesterday. I ask the honourable senator to put the remainder of his question on notice. 
Yesterday  Senator Brown  asked me questions concerning the F4E lease. I have obtained the following information for htm: 
Delivery commenced in September 1970 and the aircraft were delivered in accordance with agreed arrangements between the RAAF and USAF. 
The first payment under the lease was made in November 1970. 
The estimated cost of the lease for the 2 years is $34m (Australian). 
The final cost of the lease will depend on the period the aircraft are in Australia. 
Regarding the possibility of the lease being less than the agreed 2 years in the event of an early delivery of the F111c aircraft, I would suggest that this possibility is remote. 
If the Government decides later this year, to accept the F111c, the probable date of delivery for this aircraft would not be earlier than September 1972. 
On 
Tuesday, in response to a question asked of me by  Senator Brown  as to whether Australia would get a rebate for the lease moneys it has paid should the F4E Phantom aircraft be returned prior to the termination of the 2-year leasing agreement, I said that the possibility of this situation occurring was remote because we had taken delivery of the F4E aircraft in September and we would not be taking delivery of the Fill aircraft before September 1972. That is all I said, in my answer to that question. The honourable senator may infer what he likes from that answer. The point is I was referring to F4E leases only. 
I will begin with the last part of the question. I understand that Australian security has a very good record indeed and it compares very favourably with that in any other country. 
In relation to the matter that  Senator Cavanagh  speaks of, I understand that documents - some classified, but most of them unclassified - were found in some filing cabinet. 
Procedures were instigated requiring a very careful watch to be kept on all material before it was disposed of. 
That was the immediate action that took place. 1 understand that when my colleague in another place took over the portfolio of Supply one of his first actions was to review the whole of these procedures. 1 hope that he will not have a repetition of the particular instances to which the honourable senator refers. 
I did not refer to a breakdown of security at Woomera. The honourable senator has a question on notice which he asked me last Tuesday in relation to a specific matter. I referred the question to the Minister concerned and I am waiting for a reply. Until I obtain that reply I cannot go any further with the honourable senator's question. 
I saw the report. The figure mentioned is one put forward by the buyers. I do not know whether it is correct. I do not think it is further evidence of certain things, as the honourable senator says it is. 
As the representative of the Minister for Supply in this place, I will seek the information for the honourable senator. 
I would not know what the honourable senator was talking about. Any surplus requirements of the RAAF are disposed of to the 
Department of Supply, which puts them up for tender and the successful tenderer takes the aircraft. Where they go from there 1 would not know. J will look at the question asked by the honourable senator and see what information I can obtain for him. 
For the convenience of honourable senators, I seek leave of the Senate for the subject matters of this Bill and the Seamen's War Pensions and Allowances Bill (No. 2) 1971 to be debated together at the second reading stage. The questions relating to the stages of the Bill, of course, will be put separately. 
The 
Australian Wheat Board has a number of markets in the Middle East area, but its sales for shipment to that area this year will be one million tons. This compares very favourably with about a quarter of a million tons last year. I understand that shipments to the United Arab Republic this year will exceed li million tons. If one ignored the calendar year and went back to the middle of last year and looked at shipments from that time I understand that they would be in the vicinity of 2 million tons. It is true to say that shipments of wheat to mainland China were at the rate of about 2 million tons annually. In fact, over the years about one-third of Australia's export wheat has gone to Mainland China. The  Chairman  of the Australian Wheat Board stated 3 weeks ago that disposals this year were likely to be within half a million bushels of the record domestic and export sales figure of 375.4 million bushels - that is 10 million tons - achieved in 1966-67. He also said that the carry-over would be something less than 150 million bushels. Thus it could be said that stocks will be about 120 million bushels less than they were last year and the year before. They will still be very substantially higher than they have been in any other peace time year, despite the sales we have made. 
I think 1 have explained on a number of occasions that a decision was made some time ago to take the Fill, subject to certain tests being carried out. These tests were to reach a stage which would allow the Department of Air and the Department of Defence to evaluate them so that a decision could be made by December of this year on whether the Government would take the Fill. Tests have been and are still being carried out. Some of them have slipped behind the time period we were originally given. I sent a senior officer of my Department to the United States of America to determine the stage which the tests had reached in order to see whether a decision could still be made at the end of this year. That officer has returned to Australia and reported to the Department of Air. The report has been evaluated. It has been sent to the Department of Defence. A submission is now being prepared for the Minister for Defence to take to the Cabinet. I believe that I will be able to advise the Parliament in December whether the Government will take delivery of the Fill aircraft. 
The Minister for Repatriation has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Victorianbased tribunals are located in modern office accommodation in the T.A.A. Centre in Franklin Street, Melbourne. The annual report referred to by the honourable senator was that of No. 1 War Pensions Entitlement Appeal Tribunal in which two items were referred to. These were, firstly, the accommodation made available to advocates of the Returned Services League and their Secretary and, secondly, the absence of parking space for the  Chairman  and members of that Tribunal. 
In regard to the first item, the advocates of the RSL of their own volition decided to locate themselves, on a full-time basis, in the tribunal offices, unlike advocates from other organisations such as Legacy who normally operate from their own headquarters. 1 know of no reason why their permanent location in the tribunal area would provide a greater standard of assistance than that given by other organisations in Melbourne, or elsewhere  in  other capital cities throughout the Commonwealth, that work from their own offices. 
The second point raised, parking space for the  Chairman  and members, is a problem in all cities. 
In the case of the T.A.A. Centre, an allocation of 5 spaces has been made for the use of members of the medical profession who attend Assessment Appeal Tribunals for short periods, usually a half day. No allocation has been made for the full time Chairman or Members of the Entitlement Appeal Tribunal. However they of course are free to use the spaces provided for the medical members of the Assessment Appeal Tribunal should they be vacant at any time. 
In conclusion I would add that I have never, nor has my department, received any complaint about the accommodation and facilities provided at the Melbourne Tribunals from any person or organisation and I am quite sure that the present arrangements in no way affect the high standard of service available to ex-servicemen. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
There is no formal 'agreement' on catch limits for certain whale species in the sense of a document signed by member governments of the International Whaling Commission. The agreement to which the honourable senator refers is the annual determination by the Commission of an agreed total number of baleen whales permitted to be taken in the Antarctic south of Latitude 40° South. 
The total agreed upon in Washington for the 1972 season will become effective providing there are no objections within 90 days of the official notification by the Commission. To date my Department has not been notified of, or expects in future, any objections to the agreed total. 
No. 
(a) When any person or vessel of a member country captures any whale which is forbidden under the International Convention for the Regulation of Whaling 1946, full details must be submitted to the Commission. Accordingly member countries have a record extending over a number of years of such reported infractions under the Convention, 
Non-member countries provide very little information to the Commission and certainly do not report details of whales taken which would be an infraction under the Convention. 
The countries listed in the August 1971 issue of 'Australian Fisheries' were those represented at the Washington meeting of the Commission and not necessarily those which have operated in the Antarctic and Indian Ocean regions. According to the records of the International Whaling Commission, countries which are known to have been whaling in one or both of these regions are: Australia, United Kingdom, Japan, Norway, U.S.S.R., Netherlands, United States of America, South Africa, Panama, Chile and Argentina. 
 The Minister for Repatriation has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Government has announced that an independent inquiry into the Repatriation system is to be held. The inquiry will be conducted by a judge or eminent counsel. He will be assisted on a parttime basis by other eminent people who will be available at relevant stages of the inquiry. The person who is to conduct the inquiry and those to assist him and the actual terms of reference have not yet been announced but it is expected that an announcement covering these matters will be made soon. 
 The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
At 17th September 1971, the total sum expended by the Australian Wool Commission in connection with its reserve price operations since the commencement of wool sales on 3 1st August 1971 was $8.6m. 
The Minister for Repatriation has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The statistics included in the Repatriation Department's Annual Report relate to the actual number of artificial limbs provided for patients at Repatriation Artificial Limb and Appliance Centres (RALACs). 
The production of a limb includes the manufacture or procurement of components, assembly and the appropriate fitting, adjustment, and trial walking to satisfy the medical requirements of the case. For all but the few cases referred by one other Commonwealth Department, the RALACs carry out all these processes: in those few cases that Department carries out some phases. Throughout the world the interest and awareness of the medical profession in this field, has resulted in a closer relationship between the medical limb fitting specialist and the craftsman producing the limb. The craftsman is now a recognised member of the paramedical technical team, along with the physiotherapist, the occupational therapist and others. In Australia the RALACs have had the very desirable close and continuing association of the limb fitting specialist and the craftsman, and the backing of a special research and development unit in the Repatriation Department. Procurement of high quality modern component parts and fittings from private manufacturers in Australia and overseas, has allowed the trained staff to concentrate more on the fabrication and fitting aspects. These are the aspects which require the higher elements of their skill, and where the medical limb fitting specialist has most impact 
The North Western University (NWU) Artificial Knee is used extensively by the Repatriation Department because it is regarded by the Department's Central Development Unit, after appropriate study and trial, as being among the best of its type available. It certainly cannot be regarded as obsolete, although possibly some practitioners might have a personal preference for other types of knee. 
The NWU knee joint was developed by the North Western University of Chicago U.S.A.. its characteristic being that it operates on the principle of adjustable intermittent friction which is a desirable feature. There are many other designs incorporating this principle, but this is one of the best yet developed. 
The Central Development Unit of the Department is continually examining new techniques and components as they become available but to date have seen no reason to recommend the replacement of the NWU artificial knee joint, as  a  major unit used by the Repatriation Department. It may be of interest that currently the Department is evaluating three other different types of knee joints from Britain and America. 
The Minister for the Army has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
It is not possible to provide costs for the very wide range of activities thatmay be classified as having some public relations content or purpose. The amounts spent on salaries and allowances of full time public relations staffs, both Service and civilian, and on activities directly attributable to the functions of these staffs over the last 3 years, and estimated expenditure of 1971-72 are as follows: 

<graphic href="049232197109281_15_0.jpg"></graphic>

The establishment and strength of the Directorate of Public Relations (Army) are as follows: 

<graphic href="049232197109281_15_1.jpg"></graphic>

The Information being sought is not readily obtainable and I would be reluctant to authorise the time and expense involved in obtaining it. I should be pleased, however, to examine any particular instance if so requested. 
The Minister for Repatriation has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
(a) Where public transport is available but an ex-serviceman, of his own choice, prefers to use a private vehicle, he is reimbursed at the rate of six cents a mile irrespective of the size of the motor; 
Where public transport is not available, or if the ex-serviceman's incapacity will not permit the use of public transport payment is made at the following rates: 4-cylinder vehicle - 7 cents a mile  6-cylinder vehicle - 8.2 cents a mile. 
The rates payable previously were: 
where public transport was available and incapacity did not prevent its use - the cost that would have been incurred by using public transport; 
where public transport was not available, or if available could not be used- 4- cylinder vehicle - 9.5 cents a mile, 6- cylindei vehicle-1 1 . 4 cents a mile. 
The present rates became payable in May 1971. 
The Public Service Regulations provide for two scales of payment for use of a private car. They are: 
Regulation 90  -  when used for authorised official business: 4-cylinder vehicle - 9.5 cents a mile 6-cylinder vehicle - 1 1.4 cents a mile. 
Regulation 90a  -  when used for specified purposes: 4-cylinder vehicle - 7 cents a mile 6-cylinder vehicle - 8.2 cents a mile. 
in reply - I thank the Senate for the attention that it has given the Bill. I thank those honourable senators who have contributed to the debate on the Bill. The Bill proposes to provide increases in the rates of certain pensions and allowances and to make an appropriation from the Consolidated Revenue Fund for the purpose of making certain payments resulting from the increases. To the motion that the Bill be now read a second time the Opposition has moved an amendment which seeks to add the following words:  but the Senate condemns the Government because it has failed to restore the relative values of repatriation pensions. 
In opening the debate for the Opposition,  Senator Poyser  said that in his opinion and in the opinion of the Opposition pension increases have lagged behind wage increases and price increases. He also said that in his view there was no value in many of the pensions paid today. I refute those suggestions made by the honourable senator and I will deal with them presently. I support my colleague,  Senator Maunsell,  by saying that I believe that the present provisions and allowances provided by the Repatriation Act are at least the equal of any repatriation benefits paid throughout the world.  Senator Poyser  shakes his head. Some countries might pay benefits that go a little further. 
In some cases far further. Taking the pensions and allowances payable over the very wide field that the Act encompasses, I believe that Australia's repatriation benefits are second to none. I think that in looking at the situation one has to remember that the resources available for war compensation purposes are directed according to the priority based on the extent of war related disablement or loss. Bearing that in mind, one has to look at the pensions and remember that they are not taxable. Together with the fringe benefits that go with the pensions, the money that the pensioner receives is a quite considerable sum. 

 Senator Poyser opened the debate by referring to the minimum wage in each State. He said that in New South Wales the minimum wage was $47.10 a week, in Victoria it was $46.30 a week, in Queensland it was $44.60 a week, in South Australia it was $45.90 a week, in Western Australia it was $46.40 i week and in Tasmania it was $47 a week. The Repatriation Department accepts the Western Australian rate of $46.40 a week as the average rate throughout the States. When one looks at the total and permanent incapacity and war widows pensions and allowances one finds that the movement in those pensions and allowances compares more than favourably with the movement in the minimum wage and in the consumer price index. I give the Senate some figures on this. If one goes back not 10 years, as  Senator Poyser  wanted, but back to 1950 and if one looks at the consumer price index and at percentage increases one finds that since June 1950 the consumer price index has risen by 138 per cent. The minimum wage has risen by 244 per cent since June 1950. Let us compare those increases with the increase in the war widow's pension and domestic allowance, taken together, of 274 per cent since June 1950. That is a great deal higher than the 138 per cent or the 244 per cent. The increase for the widow with 2 children, who receives the pension, the domestic allowance and the children's allowances, has been 303 per cent since June 1950. The TPI pension has been increased by 301 per cent since June 1950. 
But do not let us go back only to that stage. Let us look at the percentage increases over the last 3 years. In that period the consumer price index has risen by 12 per cent whilst the minimum wage has risen by 24 per cent. For the war widow who receives her pension and the domestic allowance the increase has been 20 per cent. For the war widow with 2 children, who receives her pension, the domestic allowance and the children's allowances, the increase has been 28 per cent. For the TPI pensioner the increase has been not 12 per cent as in the case of the consumer price index, or 24 per cent as in the case of the minimum wage, but 27 per cent. 
So the figures that the honourable senator was using do not bear out the point he was making in relation to the percentage rise in the consumer price index or the minimum wage. He then shifted his argument to a comparison with the average weekly wage. 
All right, average weekly earnings; I stand corrected. He said that in 1961 the TPI rate represented 55.7 per cent of average weekly earnings and that now it represents only 44.4 per cent. He then went on to use a figure of $93.10 for average weekly earnings; but that is the highest State figure. 
No. Average weekly earnings at 30th June this year were $89.70. That is vastly different from the figure the honourable senator used. 
The honourable senator used the New South Wales figure. 
As I heard the honourable senator, he used the New South Wales figure of $93.10, whereas the information I have is that at 30th June this year average weekly earnings were $89.70. If I am right in my calculations, that means that a single TPI pensioner receives 56.26 per cent of the average take-home pay, whilst the married man with no children receives 62.18 per cent of the average take-home pay. The Budgets for the period of 3 years from 1968-69 to 1971-72 have provided for an increase of $9 in the special rate or TPI pension. 
The honourable senator, in his interjection, is talking about something that has nothing to do with this Bill. That increase of $9 is considerable when we realise that an increase of $1 a week in the TPI pension means a total annual increase of $1,248,800. That is a considerable sum of money. The minimum wage, to which  Senator Poyser  referred, was increased by $4 a week in December 1970. Since then there has been an increase of $4.50 in the special rate or TPI pension. Surely that is something in the favour of the Government. The Government not only has maintained that relativity but has gone even further. The TPI pension of $42.50 is cash in the hand. To clear that amount a man would have to earn $48.30 before tax. Taking into consideration the fact that it costs the average man about $3 a week to travel to and from work, the amount becomes $51.30, which is $4.90 more than the minimum wage in Western Australia of $46.40. That is without the various fringe benefits. Although an amount in money terms cannot be put on the fringe benefits, 1 think all of us will agree that collectively they represent a considerable sum. 

 Senator Poyster talked about the war widow with children. The total pension and domestic allowance for the war widow without dependent children will have been increased by $4.25 in the 3-year period to which I have been referring; that is, from 1968-69 to 1971-72. For the war widow with 2 children under 16 years of age, the increase in pension domestic and children's allowances over that same period will have been S8.60. 
That is the increase. There are also other benefits that go with those pensions and allowances. 

 - Senator, I did not interrupt you while you were making your speech. 
Someone has to judge that too. Limits are imposed in respect of the general rate pension according to the incapacity of the pensioner. These pensioners are able to engage in full time employment without it affecting their war pension.  Senator Gair  referred to some of these people when he made his remarks.  Senator Poyser  made a point about the adjustment in the average earnings level. I said that at June 1971 this amount was $89.71. I then pointed out to him the amount for tax and travelling costs that has to be deducted from those average weekly earnings. If one takes these things into consideration the amount that a single man would take home out of $89.70 would be in the vicinity of $67 a week. If he  is  married and has 2 children it would be in the vicinity of $71 a week. All these things have to be taken into consideration when somebody compares the pensions paid to these chaps with the average weekly earnings or the minimum wage and points out how far the pension is below those 2 figures. 
I turn now to the onus of proof provision which was referred to also by  Senator Poyser.  I have heard him refer to this matter on many occasions. I recognise that he has a great interest in it and has done a lot of work in an effort to overcome the problems that he believes are related to it. 1 think it is fair to say that all determining authorities are aware of this section of the Repatriation Act and correctly apply the onus of proof provision and give the benefit of the doubt. The honourable senator said that this was not so and gave his reasons for his belief. But I would point out that 2 Attorneys-General have expressed the opinion in the past that any doubt must be in the mind of the determining authority and not that of the claimant, the appellant or any other persons, before the benefit is applied. I cannot argue about this; that is the policy adopted by the Department and it has the authority of 2 Attorneys-General for it. I have taken note of what the honourable senator said and will see that the matter is brought before the Minister of Repatriation  (Mr Holten).  I cannot add anything further on that aspect. 

 Senator Poyser, Senator Gair and, I think,  Senator Gietzelt  referred to the funeral benefit. The amount authorised by the legislation is not intended, and never was intended, to cover the full cost of a funeral. It is provided to assist in meeting the cost. Honourable senators know as well as I that the cost of funerals varies greatly depending upon the location and the type of funeral desired by relatives. I believe it would be impossible for the Department to fix a figure to cover every situation. Therefore the Department makes available a sum which it believes will assist relatives to meet the cost of funerals. All of us have to go the same way sometime and this is a burden we all have to bear. This is a difficulty which the Department has to face and I believe it overcomes it in the best way it can. 

 Senator Poyser mentioned a letter in regard to the chronically ill that he and other honourable senators had received from the War Widows Guild. I am advised that this is a general community problem. War widows do receive inpatient treatment during the acute or sub-acute stage of a chronic illness and all forms of outpatient treatment, including limited domiciliary nursing, are provided. Extension of these benefits involves a matter of priority over benefits in the form of war compensation. The Government recognises the problem brought forward by the honourable senator and he can be assured that it will be kept under review all the time. However it is a matter of priority in relation to benefits by way of war compensation. 

 Senator Gair mentioned difficulties that he faces in respect of certain cases brought to him. I think most honourable senators have experienced the situation about which  Senator Gair  spoke. It is not a common everyday occurrence. It does not arise in large numbers. It is one of the difficult cases. It was brought to his attention because it was difficult. All I can say is that I shall bring what he said to the notice of the Minister. An investigation is to be carried out into the Repatriation Act and the benefits under it and I am quite sure that this matter will be brought before those carrying out the investigation by some of the people whom it deeply concerns. No doubt some of the members of this Federal Parliament will have the opportunity of going before that investigating committee and of telling their experiences. I believe that all this will be of value to the investigation. 
 No, we hope that an announcement will be made shortly. The Government has announced its intention to go ahead with this committee. These are the sorts of things which I believe the honourable senator should bring before that committee. He should make a point of doing so.  Mr President,  the Government cannot support the amendment moved by  Senator Poyser.  We support the motion for the second reading of this Bill. 
Question put: 
Thatthe words proposed to be added  (Senator Poyser's amendment)  be added. 
The honourable senator had a discussion with me on this matter and I said I would seek some information for him. I have that information now. The control of locust plagues is a State responsibility. However, in continuation of the very intensive co-operation in respect of pesticide usage, which has existed between the Department of Primary Industry and the State departments through the Australian Agricultural Council, the Department of Primary Industry has been fully informed of the proposed control methods for the pending locust plague. The proposed spray programme to be used in New South Wales will vary depending on whether the control is of locusts before the wing stage in lightly grazed areas or flying locusts in good pasture areas. The New South Wales Department of Agriculture is aware of the need to ensure that pesticide treatments are maintained at a level which will kill the plague locust and at the same time maintain pesticide residues at a low level. Considerable planning and research work have been undertaken to ensure that the most suitable types of pesticides are used. As emphasis will be on treatment within the limits of good agricultural practice, it can be expected that any contamination of streams will be minimal and well below the level which would be detrimental to wildlife or fish. 
I think the honourable senator will recognise that the Bureau of Agricultural Economics does a tremendous amount of work in obtaining information from all over the world as to what will be the world situation in regard to primary products, which would include the 3 products he mentioned. This up to date information is then distributed to primary producers and primary producer organisations. In addition, a large amount of marketing information is provided in surveys, and that is distributed from time to time by the Department of Primary Industry in departmental journals and by the Minister for Primary Industry when be makes speeches in various areas. 
The next Agricultural Outlook Conference will be held in Canberra between 1st and 3rd February next year. As was the case this year, invitations will be issued to primary producer organisations, marketing boards, State and Commonwealth departments, scientific groups, universities and business firms associated with agriculture, and also to the Australian Council of Trade Unions. The main aim of the Conference is to bring primary producers up to date with the marketing prospects for the commodities they produce and to provide to farmers in general the widest publicity of the information obtained by the Bureau and the Conference. 
1 do not think the honourable senator is doing any good for the men he is trying to represent with the verbiage he is using in bis question. I shall certainly direct .the Minister's attention to the .honourable senator's question. 
The 
Royal Austalian Air Force requirement for a replacement aircraft for the Mirage has been' finalised and shortly will be issued to interested companies. The submissions by the companies in response to this requirement will be studied by the officers of my Department to determine the aircraft which will be best suited to the RAAF requirement. They will be subject to a detailed evaluation. In all the studies and in the evaluation of the successful aircraft not only will the performance and costs be studied but participation in the project by the Australian industry also will be fully explored by the Department of Supply. 
 1 understand that the Wildlife Division is not conducting an investigation into the ibis at present, but has made a study in that field. I also understand that a paper on the subject has been printed. I believe that there is an agreement between New South Wales, Victoria and the River Murray Commission, that where a habitat is suitable to the ibis and other wildlife it will be reserved for that purpose. 
I think the honourable senator will agree that the biggest area of private buying is in Western Australia. Recently the Minister for Primary Industry went to Western Australia to open a show and, in the course of his speech, referred to private buying of wool. Although he expressed some concern that he and the Government felt about the amount of private buying, he did nothing to alter the present policy that eligible wool sold either at auction or privately will attract a deficiency payment. That is how. the position stands at present. 
The charge to which the honourable senator has referred was laid in 1968 or early 1969. 
The case is now before the court. In 1968 the then Minister for Defence answered a similar question in another place. He said at that time that this incident did not affect Australia's aircraft. I have made investigations into the matter, and I understand from the officers on the project in the United States that Australia's aircraft will not have any defective welds in them. 
The 
Minister for Supply has furnished the following reply: 
Fallout from French nuclear weapons tests in Polynesia during 1971 has been, detected throughout the network of monitoring stations in Australia, including those in Queensland. However, at no stage has fallout radioactivity reached .levels which could be regarded as serious.. The results of the monitoring programme to date indicate, in fact, that radiation doses to the Australian population from the fallout are less than those from fallout in Australia from the French tests of 1970 which the National Radiation Advisory Committee has reported as being no hazard to the health of the population. 
In view of the pos.tion on fallout, as summarised in (1), :I see no reason to depart from the established- practice of collating and analysing, as a whole, all results from- the 'monitoring operation before publishing them. The current monitoring in relation to the French tests is expected to continue for some months and, when concluded, all results will be published in detail. 
The Australian Government has expressed strong opposition to atmospheric nuclear testing, and has regularly lodged official protests with France. Australia also joined others in a common expression of concern in the 5th August communique of the Wellington forum of South Pacific leaders. Again, in Geneva, at the mid-August session of the Committee on the Peaceful Uses of the Sea-Bed and Ocean Floor beyond the limits of National Jurisdiction Australia supported a proposal calling on France to cease atmospheric tests. Australia, as a party to the 1963 Partial Test Ban Treaty which prohibits atmospheric testing welcomes the 1st September decision of the French Cabinet to cancel their programme for the remainder of 1971, especially if this leads to their complete discontinuation of nuclear weapons testing.   
On the 7th and 19th May,  Senator Mulvihill-  asked the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  2 questions without notice concerning the launching of a world appeal for South Vietnam war orphans. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's questions: 
The Australian Government has not supported a specific aid programme designed exclusively to assist war orphans. The policy of the Government has been to concentrate its aid on economic development projects, such as water supplies, which have important and wide-ranging social benefits for the entire population including the orphans. Australian assistance for orphans in South Vietnam has however been undertaken on an ad hoc or voluntary basis. The Australian Civil Action Unit, the Surgical Team at Bien Hoa and units of the Australian forces in South Vietnam have given much voluntary assistance to various orphanages. Substantial aid for South Vietnamese orphans has been provided by private Australian aid organisations, which have given financial support for orphanages or individual orphans. 
The Australian High Commissioner in London,  Sir Alex  Downer, has associated himself with support for the Pestalozzi Children's Village Trust. This Trust, of which Lord Sainsbury is  President,  is responsible for helping needy children from underdeveloped countries. Children are brought to the United Kingdom, provided with secondary and further' education and, on completion of training, returned to their homelands to assist in the economic and cultural development of their nations. By agreement with the South Vietnamese Government, the Trust has recently extended its aid to an initial group of 24 orphaned children from South Vietnam. In order to raise funds for its work the Trust launched an appeal in April 1971 with the. co-operation of the Dean of Westminster and sought the joint patronage of the American and South Vietnamese Ambassadors and the Australian High Commissioner. All agreed to lend their names as joint patrons. It is not the intention of the Government to make a specific independent grant to the Trust's appeal for funds. 
I refer to the question addressed to the Minister for Health  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  by  Senator Poke  on 7th September in regard to the health risks associated with the pollution of marine life by metals especially mercury.  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson has provided the following answer: 
I am aware of the study being carried out by 
Professor Bloom. Details are not at present available but results are expected to be published later this year. Officers of my Department and expert committees of the National Health and Medical Research Council will then consider these results. Food legislation is a matter, for individual States, the Commonwealth having responsibility only in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern 
Territory. The Council has recommended a maximum level of 0.03 parts per million of mercury in all foods. However, it is the responsibility of the States and the Commonwealth to decide whether to accept this recommendation or to set levels they consider appropriate. 
The Food and Agriculture Organisation and the World Health Organisation Report of the 1967 Joint Meeting of Experts on Pesticides Residues in Foods stated: 
By way of guidance however practical residue limits of from 0.02 parts per million to 0.03 parts per million mercury according to local conditions are suggested. 
The question of mercury residues in foods is being kept under continual review by expert committees of Council. Council will consider this matter in detail at its seventy-third session in October 1971: 
The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's questions: 
The States were asked to. furnish information which enables an answer tobegiven to the honourable senator's question. The figures supplied by the' States Cover the period' from the inception of the scheme to dates ranging from 27th August to 9th September. These figures show that over the' relevant periods: 
State reconstruction authorities had received a total of 5,294 applications for assistance under the rural reconstruction scheme. 4,783 were for debt reconstruction and 511 for. farm build-up. The corresponding proportions are 90 per cent and 10 per cent respectively. 
9 per cent of the applications, have been approved; 24 per cent have::been withdrawn after lodgement, or refused; and the remaining 67 per cent are under consideration. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
The F111 aircraft operating with the USAF have now flown over 100,000 hours with the lowest accident rate of any F century series of aircraft. There are about 340 Fills flying both in the U.S.A. and the U.K. 
As previously stated, the Fraser/Laird Agreement provides that the Australian Government is to be satisfied with certain operational and technical criteria of the aircraft before they are accepted. My Department and Department of Defence are presently examining these aspects following a visit to America by a team of experts. I anticipate that the Government will make a decision on this matter later this year. 
I will need to seek information on this question. I will refer it to the Minister for the Navy and obtain a reply for the honourable senator. 
I would doubt that there has not been some research into an important question such as this, but .what that research is I cannot state at this time. I shall certainly draw the Minister's attention to the question, find out what information is available and let the honourable senator have it. 
Fill  AIRCRAFT 
I shall see what I can find out from the Minister for the Army for the honourable senator. 
1 do not think we need to send a delegation from Australia to sell some of the stockpile of wool. In recent times the Australian Wool Commission has been very busy trying to sell wool all over the world, and in addition to that we have the benefit of the Internationa] Wool Secretariat promoting the use of wool. Last year the AWC endeavoured to sell a large quantity of wool to China and, I understand, to some eastern European countries in response to tentative offers made by agents acting on behalf of those countries. Unfortunately those sales fell through, because offers were made in respect of wool which had been bought originally through private buyers and which was offered to those countries at a price some cents lower than the price at which wool was offered by the Australian Wool Commission. I shall draw the Minister's attention to the honourable senator's question. If any further information is available I will provide it to the honourable senator. 
I have read the article referred to by the honourable senator. I think it refers mainly to the fact that cargo space was made available to lift wool from the sales that have already been held, but due to the buying-in policy of the Australian Wool Commission the amount of wool that was expected to be shipped has not as yet been shipped. However, I take note of what the honourable senator has said. 1 remind him that over the past few months strenuous efforts have been made by the wool industry and the Government to oppose an increase in shipping freights. I think that policy will be continued by the Department. I will ensure that the Minister for Shipping and Transport is made aware of the honourable senator's question. 
Yes I saw the annual report by the Australian Meat Board. The report stated that the Board was conscious of the threat being posed by the development of synthetic or imitation meats. It was making every endeavour to alert the industry to the dangers of this development. It made the point that immediate legislation was desirable to prevent the use of the word 'meat' in connection with the importation, manufacture or sale of any product other than a recognised meat product. 
In April of this year the Australian Meat Board and the Minister for Primary Industry wrote to the State Ministers responsible for primary industry asking them to examine their respective legislation concerning the labelling and description of such products to ensure that the misdescription with respect to the use of the word 'meat' does not occur. Currently, the States are reviewing their legislation. The Federal Minister for Primary Industry is in the process of writing to the Minister for Customs and Excise to seek an examination of relevant import regulations to ensure correct labelling of imports of imitation or synthetic meats. 
On Tuesday last  Senator Keeffe  asked me a question and in reply I said that I would refer the matter to the Minister for Supply to obtain an answer. The question was in these terms: 
Were 14 ex-Royal Australian Air Force Vampires sold to Westair International of the USA for  a  total sum of $11,000? Have they been resold or are they about to be resold for a sum well in excess of the purchase price? Why are obsolete RAAF aircraft always sold at bargain prices when the firms buying them in job lots are then able to make enormous profits at the expense of the Australian Government? 
The Minister for Supply has provided me with the following information: 
Public tenders were called in Australia, the United Kingdom and the United States, by the Department of Supply for 16 Vampires ex-RAAF. Ten aircraft were complete with engines, though not flyable. The other six were airframes only. Twenty-eight tenders were received. An Australian company submitted the highest bid for two of the complete aircraft. The balance were sold to Westair International as second highest bidder - $1142 each for the complete aircraft and $470 each for airframes, a total of $11,956. Westair indicated in their tender that the aircraft were to be exported. I am not aware whether they have been or are about to be resold. I understand that 13 aircraft have already been shipped from Australia, and the remaining one is still being worked on by Westair's agent. 
I have no knowledge of RAAF aircraft being purchased at bargain prices and resold at enormous profits. Surplus defence aircraft are normally sold by public tender widely advertised in Australia and overseas. The disposals authority satisfied itself that the market has been adequately tested by the tenders. Normally the highest offer for each aircraft is accepted. The purchaser may undertake restoration work before reselling and would need to recover this cost as well as the purchase price, transportation costs, selling costs, etc., before making any profit. If the honourable senator has any specific case in mind I would be pleased to provide any details that might possibly be obtainable. 
Pursuant to section 41 of the Meat Industry Act 1964- 1969, I present the thirty-ninth annual report of the Australian Meat Board for the year ended 30th June 1971, together with financial statements and the report of the Auditor-General on those statements. 
Pursuant to section 36 of the Canned Fruits Export Manufacturing Act 1963-1970, I present the forty-fifth annual report of the Austraiian Canned Fruits Board for the year ended 31st December 1970, together with financial statements and the report of the Auditor-General on those statements. 
I am not aware of the details of the strike to which the honourable senator referred. Although I have a considerable amount of information from the Minister for Primary Industry about the tonnage that has been shipped and that is to be shipped, I have not the details he is seeking. Therefore I suggest that I obtain the information from the Minister and give it to the honourable senator. 
The honourable senator bases his question on a projection contained in an article. He asked me a similar question last week. I asked him to place the question on the notice paper so that I could obtain from the Minister for Primary Industry the information he sought. I ask him to do the same today. 
 I think that has been shown clearly already in the sales to date. There is evidence that the price of wool which has not been supported by the Commission is down between 12 per cent and 34 per cent on last year's values. 
I understand that when the Minister for Trade and Industry was in Japan recently he had wide ranging discussions with Japanese manufacturers about Australian wool. Twelve months ago he was informed that Japan would be a prime buyer in the wool market this year. However new estimates now being worked out indicated that the purchases would be considerably lower than those previously estimated. That is the only information that I have at present. I would have to seek further information from the Minister for Primary Industry. I will do so and I will give it to the honourable senator. 
The honourable senator has asked me a number of questions over recent sitting days about the stockpiling of wool and the Australian Wool Commission in general. Now he has asked for further information which I shall have to obtain from the Minister for Primary Industry. In view of this I will ask him to put his question on notice. 
I do not think there is any evidence which shows that private buyers are buying wool at prices below the auction reserve prices. The Minister for Primary Industry said recently on his visit to Western Australia that evidence had been presented to him by a section of the buyers who said that they believed that wool was being bought on the farm by private buyers at lower prices than it was fetching at the auction sales. I believe that the private buyers, who are operating in a big way in Western Australia and have been for many years, are an important part of the buying system in Western Australia. They represent an alternative market. Before we had the operations of the private buyers in that State on the present scale many growers in the Great Southern used to send their wool to the London market through Albany. I think this was what eventually led to the establishment of the Albany wool sales. At this stage there is no definite evidence to prove what the honourable senator is suggesting. I believe that the private buyers in Western Australia play an important part in the marketing of wool. 
1 have seen the portion of the report to which the honourable senator refers. I remind her that Victoria is not the only State where State legislation is a limiting factor on the transport of wool. We have that situation in Western Australia as well. The inquiry carried out by the Board showed the facts as the honourable senator has stated them, namely, (hat direct and indirect costs were borne by the growers because of the limitation on transport by State legislation. No, at this stage the deficiency -payment does not take into account the cost of transporting wool. 
The deficiency percentage is arrived at by comparing the average price received for all eligible wools sold at auction throughout Australia in any one auction week with a national average price of 36c per lb. The difference between those 2 figures is calculated as a percentage and added to the auction price received for individual lines of grower's wool. As to the second part of the question, when I delivered in this place  the ministerial statement on the guaranteed price of wool a roneoed copy of the speech was circulated to honourable senators and attached to that copy were details of the inferior type wools that were being excluded from the scheme. A review is taking place at present to see whether additional wools should be excluded and whether some wools already excluded should be brought into the scheme, but so far no announcement has been made. 
The 

 Deputy Leader of the Opposition asked me a similar question at the beginning of question time today. I gave him some information and said that I would seek further information from the Minister for Primary Industry. I shall do the same for the honourable senator. 
I do not have any information about the meat futures market in New York but shall seek it. I remind the honourable senator that the futures market for wool has been operating in Australia for some years now and I think that during the course of its operation wool prices have been substantially higher than they are at the present time. 
For some, yes. However I shall get the information and give it to the honourable senator. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The principal aim of the Australian Wool Commission is, by the use of its reserve price scheme, to protect woolgrowers from receiving needlessly low prices for their product, to engender greater stability in the wool market and to give woolbuyers confidence in the value of stocks purchased through the auction system. This is a continuing objective. 
Since the purchasing and resale of wool by the Commission is a continuing operation it is not possible to speak in terms of the ultimate cost of this operation. 
The Government has not placed any fixed ceiling on the amount of wool that may be purchased by the Commission. Any such limitation would leave the Commission open to concerted pressure by buyers if its stocks approached, or were thought to be approaching the ceiling. There are, however, continuing and frequent consultations between the Commission and the Government on the reserve price policies followed by the Commission. 
Analyses of the bidding at wool auctions are made continually by the Australian Wool Commission. During the first 3 week's sales of the current selling season, the average price increase where Commission bidding prompted further bids by trade buyers ranged from 2.5c per kg. at the Adelaide sale no. 2 to 3.7c per kg. at the Sydney sale no. 1. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
As published in the Interim Annual Report of the Australian Wool Commission, which was recently tabled in the Senate, at 30th June 1971 the Commission had stocks amounting to 340,507 bales as a result of its reserve price operations. This figure excludes Price Averaging Plan wool carried over from Pool No. 2, purchased by the Commission and included in Pool No. 3. No storage charges are payable on this wool. 
The storage charge for Australian Wool Commission's wool stored in wool selling brokers' stores is 10c per bale per week after the first 4 weeks for which storage is free. This concessional rate was negotiated by the Commission with the National Council of Wool Selling Brokers of Australia. 
Wool Commission wool held in stores controlled by the Australian Wool Board is stored at a slightly cheaper cost which compensates for added handling charges incurred in removing the wool from brokers' stores to Wool Board stores. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Interim Annual Report of the Australian Wool Commission, which was recently tabled in the Senate, shows that up to 30th June 1971 the Commission had purchased a total of 413,437 bales at a cost of $40,597,106 in the course of its reserve price operations. In addition, wool included in the Price Averaging Plan (P.A.P.) but remaining unsold at the end of Pools Nos 1 and 2 had been purchased. These purchases involved 189,000 bales at a cost of $15m. 
At 30th June 1971, the Commission had sold 72,930 bales of non-P.A.P. wool from its slocks. These sales realised a gross profit of $108,588. Of the P.A.P. wool mentioned above, 80,000 bales were sold to commercial buyers during Pool No.2 Financial results of these sales are not yet available because accounts for Pool No. 2 are not yet finalised. 
The wool market conditions to date have been suchthatthe Commission has not been able to resell wool in any regular pattern. There have been varying periods during which no resales were made. In these circumstances, no meaningful figure can be calculated as the average holding time ofa bale of wool between its purchase and resale. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Statements have been made in the press that the reserve prices bid by the Australian Wool Commission at wool auctions are too high compared with wool prices in other wool-producing countries, mentioning the percentage differences cited by the honourable senator. These statements must be treated with considerable reserve, as any comparison of Australian wool prices in general with wool price levels in other countries can only be of doubtful validity. 
The only major wool producing countries where authoritative wool price statistics are published arc Australia, New Zealand and South Africa. There are few points of comparison between the clips of Australia and New Zealand, the latter consisting predominantly of coarse types. 
Although South Africa produces much wool which is comparable in fineness to types commonly grown in Australia, South African prices tend to be lower because, on average, South African wool is shorter in fibre length, has lower tensile strength, contains more dust, etc. 
Such price information as is available on South American wools suggests that, even where some typesare broadly comparable, Australian wools normally command a price premium because of better classing. 
Yesterday  Senator Lawrie  asked me the following question: 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry been drawn to the fact that the longshoremen's strike in the United States of America has now spread to the east coast? Can he inform the Senate of any  likely effect on Australian exports to the United States, especially meat which has to be got in almost immediately to fill this year's quota? 
I have been advised that longshoremen on the west coast of the United States went on strike on 1st October and have been followed on strike by east coast longshoremen. On 25th September last  President  Nixon personally intervened in the dispute saying that further delay in settlement could not be tolerated. He called on the parties involved to discuss the matter and stated that if an east coast strike were to go on simultaneously with a west coast strike the Taft/ Hartley Law would automatically be applied to curtail the dispute. Regarding that part of the honourable senator's question which concerned importations of meat,  I  understand that some meat is still entering the west coast of the United States via Canadian ports. The average weekly loadings of this meat in September were 2,600 tons compared with average weekly loadings in August of  8,300 tons. 
As at 1st October last the total loadings of quota meat - beef, veal and mutton - were 209,800 tons. The balance to be shipped for 1971 arrival was 45,000 tons. The loadings for the week ended 1st October stood at 3,300 tons and were 1,100 tons above those for the week ended 24th September.  I  point out to the Senate that average weekly loadings in September were 2,600 tons. 
For the information of honourable senators, I present the interim annual report on the activities of the Australian Wool Board for the year ended 30th June 1971. When the final report is available it will be presented in accordance with statutory requirements. 
J move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend the Live-stock Slaughter Levy Act 1964-1968 to provide for the extension, for a further period of 3 years, from 1st January 1972 to 31st December 1974, of the special levy on livestock slaughtering imposed initially in January 1969 to provide finance for the operations of the meat industry service and investigation section of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation. The rates of levy are to remain unaltered at lc per head on cattle (over 200 lb dressed weight) and one-tenth of a cent per head on sheep and lambs. The levy is payable by the owner of the livestock at the time of slaughter and, in contrast to the levy used to finance the operations of the Australian Meat Board and the Australian Meat Research Committee, may not be passed back to producers. 
The initial proposals for this levy were submitted by the Australian Meat Exporters Federal Council and fully supported by the Meat and Allied Trades Federation and the Australian Meatworks Federal Council. These organisations have agreed to the continuation of the levy for a further 3 years. The service and investigation section of CSIRO has used the funds obtained from the levy, together with a matching Commonwealth contribution, to assist meatworks in many fields including quality control, sanitation and hygiene - all of which are assuming increasing importance in the meat trade. The section has also published reports and information newsletters on its work and findings and conducted schools for meatworks management. Funds from the levy should, on current estimates, provide finance to allow a continuity of operations over a period in excess of 3 years. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Drury)  adjourned. 
I do not think the honourable senator would expect me to answer him now off the cuff. I shall certainly make inquiry of the Minister for Primary Industry and provide an answer. 
I would have to check whether the honourable senator's figures are correct. I would also have to check for further details. I shall do this and give the honourable senator an answer. 
I shall certainly take up the honourable senator's question with the Minister for Primary Industry. I recall that a question along these lines was asked a few weeks ago by another honourable senator from South Australia. In that question he suggested that I should make inquiries regarding the powdering of citrus juice. I undertook to direct that question to the Department of Primary Industry. I shall obtain information on the 2 questions and give the honourable senator the result. 
I am aware that at times there is a shortage of grapefruit in the shops. If the honourable senator's suggestion that unsweetened orange juice will serve the same purpose is correct, the use of oranges could be of assistance to citrus growers. I will make inquiries of the Minister for Primary Industry and supply an answer to the honourable senator. 
The role of the Australian Wool Commission is that of another buyer in the marketplace. So it has the effect of providing greater competition at sales. The best position for the AWC to occupy would be not to buy any wool at all; in other words, to provide such competition that the wool trade would buy all the wool. In the role that the Commission has sei out for itself it has endeavoured to pursue policies that accord closely with sound commercial principles and with the accepted practice of the wool trade. T would not know how long a bale of wool would have to stand in a store to attract storage costs equal to its value. That is an exercise that would require a lot of study and I do not believe that it would be worth undertaking. 
by leave - Honourable senators will be aware that in May this year the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  announced the Government's intention to institute an independent non-parliamentary inquiry into the rationale and principles of the repatriation system. This decision was in some measure due to representations made from time to time, particularly by Returned Services League of Australia, other ex-servicemen's organisations and the public, and to the preliminary work done on the departmental review. Consideration then had to be given to the selection of a suitable person to conduct the inquiry, to the appointment of people to assist him and to the exact terms of reference. I am pleased to inform the Senate that the Government dicided to invite the Honourable  Mr Justice  P. B. Toose, C.B.E., of the Supreme Court of New South Wales to conduct the inquiry and that he has accepted this invitation. The Government is fortunate to secure the services of this distinguished gentleman and I wish to record my appreciation on behalf of the Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Holten)  of the action of the New South Wales Government which has agreed to make  Mr Justice  Toose available. 

 Mr Justice Toose has a wide legal and Army background and is eminently suited to the task. He had a distinguished career at the Bar which culminated in his appointment to the Supreme Court Bench, firstly as an acting justice in 1966 to 1967 and subsequently to a permanent appointment in June 1969. He is the author of some well known legal textbooks and, prior to his elevation to the Bench, took a great interest in a number of professional and community matters including the Bar Association of New South Wales, the Australian Law Council, the International Commission of Jurists and International Legal Aid Association. He was an Australian delegate to the First World Peace Through Law Conference and has been a  Chairman  of the Trade Practices Committee of the Law Council of Australia and Secretary to the General Law Association for Asia and the West Pacific.  His  other community interests have included VicePresidency of the Marriage Guidance Council in New South Wales from 1963 to 1 968, membership of the New South Wales Medical Board from 1966 until his appointment to the Bench, and membership of the Asthma Foundation. 

 Mr Justice Toose served throughout the 1939/45 war. He was a gunner in the Citizen Military Forces prior to the outbreak of the war and during his service rose to the rank of major in the Royal Australian Artillery, Second Australian Imperial Force. He was in command of the 2/ 17th Light Airborne Anti-Aircraft Battery in New Guinea and Brigade  Major with  the Anti-Aircraft Defence, New Guinea Force administration command. He also commanded in New Guinea the 52nd Composite Anti-Aircraft Regiment and for a time served with the American Forces Artillery in New Guinea. He is Patron of the 52nd Regiment Association and is  President  of the 2/ 17th Light Airborne Anti-Aircraft Battery Association. 1 am confident that the appointment of  Mr Justice  Toose will be well received. 
The terms of reference for the inquiry are: 
Make a comprehensive review of the Australian repatriation system, with the object of setting out the principles that have governed its operation over the years, as provided for in the Repatriation Act 1920-1971 and as extended in the Interim Forces Benefits Act 1947-1966, the Repatriation (Far East Strategic Reserve) Act 1956-1966 and the Repatriation (Special Overseas Service) Act 1962-1968. 
Enunciate the principles of the Australian repatriation system, including any necessary modifications of existing principles, that should apply, in relation to service in wars and warlike operations, to compensation of individuals for incapacity or death and to service pensions. 
Recommend means by which the complexity of the repatriation legislation might be reduced and public understanding of the legislation improved. 
Make such other recommendations and observations in relation to the rationale, efficacy and simplification of the repatriation system referred to in paragraph 1, as the  Chairman  of the inquiry deems necessary or desirable, other than recommendations in relation to levels and actual rates of pensions, allowances and benefits. 
Collate and report any views presented to the inquiry on the levels or actual rates of war pensions and allowances. 
Report to the Minister for Repatriation on the above. 
Requests were made that any independent inquiry should make specific recommendations on rates of pensions. However, the Government decided instead that it would include in the report the collation and presentation of views put to the inquiry on pension rates. The major reasons for the decision on this particular aspect were that, it will make known the views of the ex-servicemen's organisations and the public on pension rates; and that, in view of the very large sums of money involved in even minor changes in rates payable to over 500,000 clients of the Department, it was considered inappropriate, to place on the  Chairman  of this inquiry the heavy responsibility of reaching conclusions on matters involving such large amounts of Commonwealth money. 
At relevant stages of the inquiry the  Chairman  will have available other eminent people of appropriate diverse experience to assist him on a part time basis. These people will be selected as and when the need arises during the course of the inquiry. 
The inquiry will commence as soon as  His  Honour can be relieved of his present judicial duties. Interested persons or organisations will be invited to submit in writing, in the first instance, any evidence they wish to place before the inquiry. This will be done by advertisement in the Press around Australia. The  Chairman  of the inquiry may then invite persons or representatives oforganisations to give evidence in person and he will have a discretion to hear evidence either at a public hearing or in private. The dates and places for public hearings will be notified in the Press. In addition to obtaining evidence in this way the  chairman  will be free to pursue such other lines of inquiry as he sees fit. In conclusion, I assure the Senate that when in due course the report is submitted it will receive the Government's careful consideration. 
I am not aware whether the Australian Wool Commission has done as the honourable senator said it has done. However,I am aware that prices are established for all types of wool produced in Australia. These prices change from day to day, as the honourable senator will understand from the second reading speech on the Bill that came before the Senate for the setting up of the Commission. The information coming to the Commission determines the prices to operate for wool on a particular day. I have no further information regarding the latter part of the honourable senator's question. I shall approach the Minister for Primary Industry and if further information is availableI shall obtain it for the honourable senator. 
All of us who are interested in wool have watched carefully the operations of the sampling system. It is true that on the first occasion on which it operated, in New South Wales, values were very much higher than those obtained under the present auction system. However, I remind the honourable senator that in the follow-up sales at Fremantle the method was not so successful. At Fremantle quite a number of lines were passed in and no bids were offered for other lines. The honourable senator suggested that the Government should investigate the sampling system. The information I have is that in the financial year 1970-71 the Government made available$1. 5m to finance a research programme, over a period of 2 years, into the possible introduction of objective measurement into the market* ing of the Australian wool clip. 
Research has been undertaken by a joint committee comprising representatives of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics and the Australian Wool Board within a programme planned and supervised by 2 committees manned by representatives of the 3 participating organisations, namely, the University of New South Wales and wool buyers' and wool brokers' bodies. I understand that the programme covers the establishment of appropriate sampling procedures for core testing of the Australian clip and the - testing of some aspects of the feasibility of selling wool by sample. 
1 have seen a circular along these lines. I understand copies of it were sent to all Western Austraiian members of the Commonwealth Parliament. I can well understand the concern of  Senator Prowse,  as I can understand the concern of most representatives of primary industry about this matter because the shadow of increased freight rates hangs over not only the apple industry but also all rural industries. I remind the honourable senator that the Australian Apple and Pear Board is the authority which looks after the interests of the apple industry. It is that Board which negotiates such a mater as the freight rates charged in the industry. I understand that the Board has in recent weeks been able to reach an agreement with shipowners for discussions to take place in London in the third or fourth week of October on shipping freights. In view of that, I do not think it would be fair for me to comment publicly at this time. 
I have not had the opportunity of making an analysis of the question which the honourable senator asks. I would have to refer it to the Minister for the Army for more detailed information. I shall do so and give the information to the honourable senator. 
The Royal Australian Air Force at present lacks a specialist reconnaissance aircraft although Canberra and Mirage aircraft are being used for that purpose. My Department presently is making a study of the requirements for this type of aircraft but I do not think that any particular aircraft has been looked at yet. Until the study is completed I cannot give the honourable senator any further information. 
The N3 aircraft has been flown by only one pilot and he is the only man who has evaluated its performance. At present representatives of my Department and the other Service departments are discussing with the Department of Defence the evaluation of this aircraft. I understand that a number of people in the commercial world have shown an interest in the aircraft but evaluation tests are not sufficiently advanced to determine whether it meets their requirements. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows:  (1)It is not possible to provide costs for the very wide range of activities that may be classified as having some public relations content or purpose. The actual and estimated salaries and Allowances of full-time public relations staffs, both Service and civilian, and on activities directly attributable to the functions of these staffs, for the years indicated, are as follows: 

<graphic href="050232197110126_12_0.jpg"></graphic>

The establishment of the Royal Australian Air Force public relations branch is: 
Canberra - 
Director of Public Relations 2 Journalists 2 Clerical Assistants 1 Photographer, Grade 3 1 Typist 1 Squadron Leader 1 Sergeant  Clerk  1 Sergeant Photographer 
Sydney - 1 Journalist 1 Photographer, Grade 3 1 Stenographer 1 Sergeant Clerk 1 Sergeant Photographer 
Brisbane - 1 Journalist 1 Photographer, Grade 2 5 Stenographer 
Melbourne - 1 Journalist 1 Photographer, Grade 3 1 Clerical Assistant 1 Sergeant Clerk 1 Sergeant Photographer 
Butterworlh (Malaysia) - 1 Flight Lieutenant (Journalist) 1 Sergeant Photographer 
Vietnam - 1 Flight Lieutenant (Journalist) 1 Flying Officer Photographer. 
Details of travel by RAAF Public Relation  Stair  in RAAF aircraft, other than VIP aircraft, for the year ended 31st August 1971 areas follows: 

<graphic href="050232197110126_12_1.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="050232197110126_13_3.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="050232197110126_14_0.jpg"></graphic>

1 move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to implement a scheme for the stabilisation of returns to apple and pear growers for a period of 5 years commencing with the 1971 crop. Industry leaders, after consulation with the industry generally, have indicated their very strong support for the scheme to which legislative expression is now sought to be given through this Bill and the associated Apple and Pear Stabilization Export Duty Bill 1971, Apple and Pear Stabilization Export Duty Collection Bill 1971 and Apple and Pear Organization Bill 1971. 
As. honourable senators well know, this Government never seeks to impose an orderly marketing or stabilisation scheme on an industry. The proposals for such a plan must be developed through a  well tried and proven system of consultation and negotiations between the Government and an industry so that, when they are presented to the Parliament, it can be confidently affirmed that the proposals conform to the requirements of the Australian Constitution and to our responsibilities in the field of international trade, that they are legally and practically realistic and that their implementation is sought by the industry concerned. That it is possible today to bring down in the Senate a Bill to implement a scheme for the stabilisation of returns to apple and pear growers is a tribute to the common sense and spirit of co-operation which have marked discussions and negotiations between industry leaders and representatives of the Commonwealth for well over 3 years and which have led to the present position being reached. 
When, those years ago, industry leaders and officers of the Department of Primary Industry came together in this matter for the first time it was appreciated that there were many hurdles to be surmounted before a stabilisation scheme which would be fair to all parties and which could be presented to the Parliament could be evolved, but the parties set to with a very definite aim of reaching agreement on the basis of such a plan if it could be found to be constitutionally, legally and practically possible. After discussions at the level of industry representatives and departmental officers had gone as far as they could go the industry leaders met with the then Minister for Primary Industry, now the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony),  and subsequently with the present Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair),  and the outcome of all these deliberations is the Bill which is presently before the Senate. 
It has been estimated that the scheme is likely to cost the Commonwealth of the order of $10m over the 5 years of its life and this gives some idea of the unfortunate position in which this industry finds itself. Because of this unfortunate position it is true that this stabilisation scheme and the likelihood of the subvention by the Commonwealth under the scheme of this $10m over 5 years will not provide solutions to all the industry's problems. However, it is intended that the scheme will give a considerable measure of stability to the industry to assist it to examine its other problems and to take steps to meet them. 
It is unusual in speaking to a Bill which will have application to the affairs of an industry which is spread over Australia to elaborate, upon the particular circumstances of one State. However, I think that in the present context of the scheme proposed under this Bill I should perhaps draw attention to the particular importance of the apple and pear industry to Tasmania and in saying this I am not attempting to take away from the relative importance of the industry in some other States. 
However, when I point out that the industry has a history of over a century in Tasmania and has been developed, since the introduction of refrigerated shipping, principally for export and that the value of the industry to the State's economy has been in recent years between $16m and $20m annually, it will be appreciated just what the industry does mean to the island State. It is understood that the industry in Tasmania provides between 45 per cent and 60 per cent of agricultural earnings of the State and 12 per cent to 15 per cent of total income from rural primary industries including timber and mining. On average over the last 10 years Tasmania provided 36 per cent of Australian production of apples, but 71 per cent of exports; 7 per cent of production of pears, but 27 per cent of exports. 
The scheme outlined in the Bill presently before the Senate breaks new ground in some of its aspects. This is because it is specially framed to assist the most vulnerable section of the industry: That section engaged in export on open consignment, sales afloat, or on consignment against a guaranteed advance payment. These classes of exports are usually referred to as 'exports at risk'. Both the industry itself and the Government recognise that exports sold forward at firm prices, at or above the minimum prices set by the Australian Apple and Pear Board, are not in need of the same kind of assistance and the scheme has been framed accordingly. The scheme will be integrated with the industry's private enterprise system of marketing as regulated by the Australian Apple and Pear Board and the Board will be responsible for the overall administration of the scheme. 1 would now briefly explain the way in which the scheme proposed in this Bill will work. Separate stabilisation funds will be set up for the different varieties of apples and pears, and average export support prices will be set for each variety each season. In the determination of the average export support prices for a season other than the first season, regard will be had to established movements in cash costs. If the average export return of a season for a variety falls below, its average export support price, then a payment will be made from the relevant fund to the. owner of the fruit. If the average export return for a variety exceeds the support price, then owners will be levied to make a. contribution to the relevant fund. 
If, at any time, the balance in a stabilisation fund is insufficient to make the necessary payment to owners, the Commonwealth Government, will meet the deficiency. The contribution to the appropriate varietal fund by the owner of the fruit, where a contribution is called for, Will be on a sliding scale up to a maximum of 80c per bushel. The Commonwealth's aggregate liability in respect of the fruit of a season will be related to the total quantity of fruit of that season exported at risk. The basic limitation is a total quantity of 4.4 million bushels, which could attract a maximum payment of 80c per bushel. As the quantity exported at risk goes above 4.4 million bushels, the maximum rate of payment per bushel will be reduced pro rata - although the aggregate amount involved would remain at a fixed level, that is 4.4 million x 80c = $3,520,000. For example, at 6.6 million bushels the maximum rate of payment would be 53.3c a bushel and at 8.8 million bushels it would be 40c a bushel. 
I mentioned previously that the scheme now proposed breaks new ground in some aspects. 1 have already mentioned one such aspect, that is, that this scheme docs not cover all production or all exports but only particular classes of exports, that is, exports on consignment, sales afloat, or on consignment against a guaranteed advance payment, all of which classes we may refer to loosely as consignment sales. Firm sales made ahead of export are npt included in the scheme although - and this brings me to the second unconventional aspect of the scheme - proceeds from forward sales will be brought into the calculation of the rate of return per bushel from export sales against which the Government's guarantee on consignment sales is to be matched. 
The explanation for this arrangement is that the guaranteed price per bushel under the scheme has been set at a level - on the assumption of returns from all sources being brought to account to determine an average export return per bushel - that is higher than would have been the case if only proceeds from 'risk sales' were to be brought to account.' The arrangement adopted, while yielding the same overall results, is easier to administer than one under which both the guaranteed price and the average return of a season were established on the basis of consignment sales only. 
I would now comment on certain specific provisions of the Bill. I would remind honourable senators that the scheme covered by the Bill provides for the determination of an average export return for a season in respect of a variety by bringing to account proceeds from (a) forward sates, that is sales made before export and (b) sales of risk fruit, that is fruit sold after export. 
In respect of (a) the Australian Apple and Pear Board can and does control such forward sales by the powers given it already under the Apple and Pear Organization Act 1938-1966. Clause 18 of the present Bill provides that the Board, in exercising its powers in this regard under the Organization Act, shall comply with any direction of the Minister in making any minimum price determinations in respect of forward sales. Further, that the Board will take all action that it lawfully can to ensure that fruit to which such a determination relates is not' sold overseas at a price less than the price applicable under the determination. 1 must make it clear to honourable senators that there is absolutely no intention of the Government, through this section, involving itself in the affairs of the Board under normal circumstances. It would only be where the Commonwealth's liability under its guarantee to the industry appeared to be threatened by some action or failure to act on the part of the Board - and such a situation I cannot possibly envisage occurring - that the section would be used. Similar provisions exist in other legislation but, to the best of my knowledge, have not needed to be used in the case of those other industries. That the Commonwealth's position must be protected is beyond doubt and so clause 18 must be in the legislation. However, I would not anticipate that action would ever need to be taken under it. 
Complementary to clause 18 arc subclauses (4.) and (6.) of clause 6 which deal with a more complicated situation. Clause 18 covers the situation of fruit which is sold forward. Sub-clauses (4.) and (6.) of clause 6 have regard, on the other hand, to fruit exported on consignment. Again, these provisions, like clause 18, are to protect the Commonwealth's position under its guarantee and would not be used unless that position were threatened by some irresponsible selling of fruit by a party altogether out of line with the more responsible commercial selling of the bulk of Australian exporters. Sub-clause (5.) of clause 6 ensures that regard will be had to the views of the Australian Apple and Pear Board should any action be contemplated under sub-clauses (4.) and (6.) of clause 6. Clause 14 (1.) provides that the Minister may, on behalf of the Commonwealth, enter into an arrangement with the Australian Apple and Pear Board to perform the functions of making stabilisation payments on behalf of the Commonwealth and, while such an arrangement is in force, the Board may do all things that are necessary or convenient to be done by it in pursuance of the arrangement. 
In the Apple and Pear Stabilization Export Duty Collection Bill, which honourable senators are also to consider, authority is given to the Minister to enter, on behalf of the Commonwealth, into an arrangement with the Board to do all the things that are necessary or convenient to be done by it in respect of the collection of export duty and provisional export duty and associated matters. Hence it will be seen that it is intended that the Board will constitute the central body through which the stabilisation scheme will work, both in respect of collection of export duty and disbursement of stabilisation payments. 
I said previously that the Commonwealth's liability in respect of the fruit of a season will be related to the total quantity of fruit of that season exported at risk. That total quantity embraces both apples and pears and there are not separate specific quantities for each apples and pears. In the light of this fact the industry has asked for an assurance by the Government that should any major anomaly (such as an imbalance in the relativity between apples and pears) be so 'evident as to affect seriously the scheme at any stage in its lifetime the Government will be prepared to discuss the matter with the industry to see if it is necessary to amend the arranged ments under the plan and the legislation. I am happy to say that the Government is prepared to give the industry such an assurance. I said earlier that this stabilisation scheme will not solve all the industry's problems. However I believe it is a fair and just scheme and will give the industry considerable assistance. The industry shares that view. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Poke)  adjourned. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read  a  secondtime. 
The purpose of this Bill is to impose export duty, under certain conditions, on apples and pears exported on consignment. This arrangement is for the purposes of the stabilisation scheme referred to in my second reading speech on the Apple and Pear Stabilization Bill 1971. This Bill is complementary to the Apple and Pear Stabilization Bill 1971, the Apple and Pear Stabilization Export Duty Collection Bill 1971 and the Apple and Pear Organization Bill 1971. The Bill provides in clause 6 that, where the average export return for a season in respect of a variety of fruit exceeds the support price for that season in respect of that variety, export duty will be imposed on the exportation on consignment during the season of fruit of the season. 
Clause 7 prescribes the formula under which the export duty will be charged. Paragraph (d) of sub-clause (2.) of clause 7 provides that the maximum rate of excise duty which can be charged is 80c per bushel. 
Clause 8 renders the exporter of the fruit liable for payment of the export duty (but it might be noted here (hat clause 14 of the Apple and Pear Stabilization Export Duty Collection Bill 1971 provides that where an exporter has paid export duty in respect of fruit of which he is not the owner he is entitled to recover an amount equal to that export duty from the owner of the fruit as a debt due to the exporter from the owner). The stabilisation scheme is framed to operate on the basis of 5 succeeding seasons each of which shall commence on the 1st day of October in each year. Hence clause 9 of this Bill provides that export duty imposed by the Bill is not payable in respect of fruit that is not sold after it is exported and before the end of the season in which it is exported. Clause 10 of the Bill imposes provisional export duty in accordance with the Apple and Pear Stabilization Export Duty Collection Bill 1971.I shall refer to the operation of that provisional duty in my second reading speech on that Bill.I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Poke)  adjourned. 
-I move: 
Thatthe Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill is complementary to the Apple and Pear Stabilization Bill 1971, the Apple and Pear Stabilization Export Duty Bill 1971 and the Apple and Pear Organization Bill 1971. The Bill provides the machinery arrangements for the payment and collection of provisional export duty and export duly to be imposed by the Apple and Pear Stabilization Export Duty Bill 1971. Clause 4 ofthe Bill provides that the Minister is authorised to declare provisional export duty which shall be payable on the export of fruit on consignment. The clause authorises that a rate of provisional export duly may be fixed by regulation and prescribes the time limit in which the provisional export duty shall be paid. However, subclause (11) of clause 4 provides that where a person has made arrangements that, in the opinion of the Minister or an authorised person, are adequate to ensure that any export duty that may become payable by that person will be duly paid, the Minister or the authorised person, may, by writing under his hand, exempt that person from liability to pay provisional export duty. 
In practice, as explained in my second reading speech on the Apple and Pear Stabilization Bill 1971, it is proposed that the 
Australian Apple and Pear Board will act as the central body th rough which export duty will be collected from the industry and stabilisation payments made to the industry. To the extent, therefore, to which exporters in this industry may make satisfactory arrangements with the Board in respect of such collections and payments it is envisaged that provisional export duty will be waived. It is understood that all exporters will operate through the Board in respect of the stabilisation arrangements and thus secure exemption from payment of provisional charge. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Poke)  adjourned. 
Pursuant to section 25 of the Apple and Pear Organisation Act 1938-1966, I present the twenty-fifth annual report of the Australian Apple and Pear Board for the year ended 30th June 1971. 
 I would definitely not agree with the last portion of the honourable senator's question. I will have to get from the Minister for Primary Industry the detailed information that he is seeking and I shall do so. 
Pursuant to section 16 of the Chicken Meat Research Act 1969, I present the second annual report of the Australian Chicken Meat Research Committee for the year ended 30th June 1971. 
The suggestion put forward by the honourable senator would be a good one if the main portion of the Australian wool clip was wool that was used in the making of blankets. But not all of the Australian clip is suitable for the weaving of blankets. For this we need the stronger type of wool. I suggest to the honourable senator that I show his question to the Minister for Primary Industry and if he has any reaction 1 will give it to the honourable senator. 
I have not read the statement, but I know  Mr Carl  Rodgers. He is a Western Australian and was instrumental in bringing a stabilisation scheme into the Western Australian egg production set-up. I remember the call made by the honourable senator some time ago. I think I answered him by saying that this matter was brought up at an Australian Agricultural Council meeting and at that stage New South Wales was asked to put a submission before the Council. But I understand that Victoria has not agreed to it at the present time; and, until there is agreement by all States, the Commonwealth cannot take any action. 
-I do not think the honourable senator is right in saying that membership of the Citizen Military Forces is a protection against being sent to Vietnam. 
I was referring to what the honourable senator said. However,I do think that membership of the CMF is an alternative. Whilst I understand that some CMF officers go to Vietnam from time to time for further training, I would have to refer the remaining part of the question to the Minister for the Army for an answer. 
1 am not aware of any submission that has been made to 'he Commonwealth Government for the subsidising of interest rates on rural loans. It seems probable that such an arrangement would not provide the answer that the rural construction scheme was designed specifically to do. The honourable senator will recall that the rural reconstruction scheme provides for 2 main forms of assistance, the first of which is in respect of debt reconstruction for producers who have reached the end of their credit resources and are in danger of losing their properties. They are eligible for assistance provided they have prospects of carrying on and regaining commercial viability. The second form of assistance is in respect of farm build-up. Finance can be provided for the purchase of additional lands by producers whose properties are too small to be economically viable. Such producers can seek assistance under the rural reconstruction scheme. I am not aware of any 
20368/71- S.- 150) 
application that has been made to the Government for the subsidising of interest rates on rural loans. 
Ail I can say now is a repetition of what I said to  Senator Bishop  yesterday. Perhaps the only person who can truly evaluate the performance of the N2 aircraft is the pilot who is at present flying it. Representatives of my department and the Department of the Army are at present having discussions with representatives of the Defence Department on the evaluation of this aircraft. I am aware that a number of commercial firms are interested in the aircraft, but they are awaiting its evaluation to see whether it meets their requirements. 
1 think the honourable senator would be aware that in the Bill that was before the Senate, the Commonwealth Government laid down a general framework. The detailed operation of the rural reconstruction scheme lies with the States themselves They are responsible for drawing up the questions in the application form. As far as I understand, there is only one application form in both South Australia and Victoria that has to be filled in by the applicant. 
The only information I have here is that up to 2nd August there were 120,000 bales purchased from PAP operations and it was anticipated by the Commission that these bales would be transferred to PAP No. 3 pool. In regard to the cost of re-auctioning these bales, I cannot give that information to the honourable senator but I can say that at the time of offering, wool is allowed to stay in the brokers' stores for 4 weeks free of charge and from then on it costs 10c per bale per week. 
Arising from the Vietnam campaign the Royal Australian Air Force nas learned a number of lessons in the operation of helicopters in a permissive area. We have also learned a number of lessons from the Americans in the operation of helicopters in a nonpermissive area. At present those lessons are being studied by my Department, so we have delayed the procurement of the helicopters. I understand that in the main the helicopters will come from overseas so for the present the offset work available to the Australian aircraft industry will not be very great. 
1 have not seen a report of the comment made by  Sir Ewen,  but 1 worked with him for some years before I was elected to the Senate. 1 know his views on wool, wool marketing and wool promotion because he was in charge of the International Wool Secretariat for some time. I agree that there is still a lot to be desired in the marketing of wool. At present the Australian Wool Board is not able to proceed with more satisfactory marketing operations because these are not acceptable to the large majority of wool growers. Until such time as the majority favours an acquisition scheme or a similar scheme the Board, the Australian Wool Commission and the Government are unable to act further in this matter. 
Yesterday  Senator Poke  asked me a question as the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. He asked: 
Has the Australian Wool Commission decided that all superfine wools must be marketed through the auction system and not by negotiation outside the system? 
Has the Commission set price reserves for the whole of the season on this class of wool which comprises only 1.2 per cent of the clip? If so, what criteria were used in establishing the reserve price? 
The answer supplied by the Minister for Primary Industry is as follows: 
The Australian Wool Commission recently examined ways in which the marketing of superfine wools could be improved. After investigations which included personal interviews wilh the users of these wools in overseas countries and consultations with the growers concerned, the Commission decided that at this point of time superfine wools should continue to be submitted to auction. This decision does not, of course, preclude any grower of these wools who wishes to sell otherwise from doing so. 
Yes. The Commission has fixed minimum reserve prices for the various types of superfine wool which will be held throughout the current selling season. The wool trade has been advised of the minimum reserve price levels which have been fixed. 
In determining the minumum reserve prices for superfine wools the Commission had regard to the market prices which prevailed for these wools last season and also took into account the views expressed by users of superfine wools which were obtained during the recent overseas investigations. 
Pursuant to section 17 of the Meat Research Act 1960-1963, I present the fifth annual report of the Australian Meat Research Committee for the year ended 30th June 1971. An interim report of the Committee was presented to the Senate on 19th August 1971. 
The flight by the BAC111 to Iran was undertaken with the full authority and support of Ministers to enable the Governor-General to represent Australia fittingly at the celebrations of the 25th century of the Iran monarchy. Honourable senators will be aware that these celebrations are being attended by heads of State, heads of government and other distinguished representatives of many countries. Many of them will be travelling in their own aircraft. The Government feels that Australia, as a country with a significant standing in international circles, is fittingly represented by the Governor-General and that it is right and proper for the Governor-General to use the aircraft of the VIP flight. I am advised that under the existing cost formula for charging of VIP aircraft travel the estimated cost of the use of the BAC111 for the purpose is $23,347. The cost of civil fares for the same journey would be $7,431. 
I will have to read the report. Until that time I cannot give the honourable senator an answer. 
I understand that when the amount for each variety is worked out this information is handed to the Minister by the Australian Apple and Pear Board, I believe. The Minister then puts this information in writing and it is later published in the Gazette. lt does not come before the Parliament. It does not go into regulations. 
It would be a factual set of figures as handed to the Minister. 
I say again that as the average varietal return comes in the Minister makes a decision on it. It is then printed in the Gazette. It is my understanding that, with the operations of this Bill, should the industry or the State Ministers of Agriculture come to the Minister and say: 'We believe that this is not functioning as we understood it would', then the Minister will investigate the matter, make a decision and no doubt the Bill will be amended to operate in the way in which the honourable senator wants it to operate. 
 In reply to the honourable senators who have just spoken, I understand that there is no mention of this information being published by regulation. Clause 6 (I.) reads: 
As soon as practicable after the end of a season, the Minister shall, by instrument in writing, determine, in accordance with this section, in respect of each variety of fruit, the amount per reputed bushel that is the average export return for the season in respect of that variety. 
I understand that the Minister makes this determination in writing within his Department. Clause 6 (7.) reads: 
A determination under sub-section (1.) of this section shall be published in the Gazette. 
That is ail that happens, on my understanding. 
-I am advised that the figure referred to by the honourable senator relates to clause 1 7, which we have not yet reached. 
Clauses agreed to. 
Clauses 11 to 1 8 - by leave - taken together. 
I am glad that the honourable senator did not ask me to reply now. Most certainly I will direct the attention of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  in another place to what he has said and will obtain a reply either in writing or in a form that I can present  to the Senate as a whole. 
Remainder of Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
-I think it would be fair to say that there is a continuing flow into this country of representatives of aircraft manufacturers to discuss their aircraft in relation to the requirements of the Royal Australian Air Force. In all cases evaluations of these aircraft are made against the background of RAAF requirements. Recently we had an example of this in regard to the replacement for the Mirage aircraft. An evaluation of an aircraft type by the Department of Air is then discussed with the Department of Defence in the context of the timing within the 5-year rolling programme. The aircraft to which the honourable senator refers is one which will be evaluated and will be considered among others as a possible replacement for the Macchi jet trainer at some future time. I emphasise to the honourable senator and to the Senate that up to the present time no decision has been taken in any way in regard to this matter. 
BROCKMAN - I recall the honourable senator asking this question. I recall saying at the time that the matter was under discussion between the State Government and Federal Government departments concerned. I believe that this matter probably would rightly be in the province of the Prime Minister's Department at the present time. I shall seek information from the Minister representing the Prime Minister and ask him to give the honourable senator a reply. 
As the representative in this chamber of the Minister for Supply  I  am not well enough informed on this subject to be able to reply to the question.  I  shall seek the information from the Minister and supply it to the honourable senator. 
I  think  I  would need to have the honourable senator's question in writing and refer it to the Minister for Primary Industry before  I  would be in a position to answer it. 1 shall do that and then give the information to the honourable senator. 
In answering a question on this subject yesterday I think I said that they were officers. I have discussed this matter with the Minister for the Army who has advised me that they were officers and other ranks, that they were all volunteers and that the average weekly number of members of the CMF in Vietnam has been between 25 and 30 officers and men. At present 18 officers and 8 other ranks who are members of the CMF are serving in Vietnam. While I am speaking on this subject, may I take the opportunity to answer  Senator Cavanagh  who asked me a question yesterday? 
No, not quite. 
I well understand the honourable senator's concern, particularly when the Australian Agricultural Council is not due to meet until next February. I will pass his question to the Minister for Primary Industry and if the Minister has any comment I shall give it to him. 
I have been trying to indicate to my colleague on the Opposition side.  Senator Poke,  for some days that I believe that the Australian Wool Commission has done a very good job. I think this is expressed in the views of the leaders of the wool industry organisations and by members of the Australian Wool Industry Conference. If the honourable senator looks at the interim report of the Commission for 1970-71 there is no doubt-- 
There is no doubt that without the Commission's firm stand in the last wool selling season the price of wool would have fallen quite considerably.I think I expressed this view to  Senator Prowse  the other day when I said that wool which at present is not under the reserve price scheme had fallen by between 12 per cent and 34 per cent according to the type of wool. The report states that the action of the Commission avoided a loss of proceeds to wool growers of upwards of $30m in less than 6 months or an equivalent of$80m in a full year. Surely,  Senator Cant  would agree that the wool growers would have something to say in favour of saving that amount of money. 
On 12th October  Senator Cavanagh  asked me, as the representative in this chamber of the Minister for the Army, the following question: 
Can the Minister give any information on the figures incorporated in Hansard last Thursday evening by  Senator Wright,  who represents the Minister for Labour and National Service in this place, as to the number of casualties in Vietnam? The figures show that the number of national service casualties in battle was close to the number of casualties in battle of the permanent military forces, and that the non-battle casualties of the permanent military, forces are far in excess of the non-battle casualties of national servicemen. Is this an indication that the deployment of national service trainees in danger areas in Vietnam is greater than that of members of the permanent military forces. 
The Minister for the Army has provided me with the following information: 
No. National servicemen have been allocated to combat units in Vietnam in the approximate proportions of 50 per cent national servicemen and 50 per cent permanent military forces. The reasons for the higher non-battle casualties for the PMF would appear to include such considerations as more PMF service in base units than national servicemen. It must be realised that many of the tasks undertaken in support units require more specialised skills than can be learned by national servicemen with their shorter period of service. However an analysis is being undertaken to determine the types of injuries sustained by the PMF which are classified non-battle casualties. I will provide the honourable senator with this analysis when it is completed. 
in reply - I thank honourable senators who have participated in this debate. After listening to what they have said 1 fully realise that they are very concerned about the present crisis in the industry. I think all honourable senators will agree that any assistance the Government can give will be welcomed by apple and pear growers. Because of the serious situation in the industry the Government for the last 3 years has been negotiating with its leaders. Discussions have been held between officers of the Department of Primary Industry, representatives of the industry and officers from State Departments of Agriculture in order to form a plan which would be suitable to all concerned. 
Tonight we have 4 Bills before us which endeavour to implement a scheme for the stabilisation of returns to apple and pear growers for 5 years commencing with the 1971 crop. I said earlier that the industry negotiated with the Government for about 3 years. I believe that its leaders and the industry generally have indicated very strong support for the proposed scheme. I will remind honourable senators briefly of details of the scheme. Its purpose is to give stability to the section of the industry most in need of it; in other words, the section of the industry which is exporting at risk by selling free on consignment, on consignment against a guaranteed advance payment, or afloat. 
I do not think any member of the Senate, any Government supporter or any grower in the industry would regard the scheme as a cure for the industry's problems. However, at least it will give the industry some help for the next 5 years over which period it will be able to adjust itself to some of the difficulties confronting it. I will outline briefly the scope of the plan, lt is based on risk exports of 4.4 million bushels of fruit which attract a maximum payment of 80c a bushel. If exports at risk exceed that maximum quantity the rate for each bushel is reduced in proportion. The maximum Commonwealth liability is therefore calculated at 80c a bushel on 4.4 million bushels, or S3. 52m in a season. Over a period of 5 seasons the Commonwealth's maximum liability would therefore be about $17. 6m. However, acting on the advice of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics and the Department of Primary Industry the Government believes that the probable cost will be about $2m a year, or $10m over the life of the plan. f will touch briefly on the economics of the scheme. Varietal funds will be established for each variety of apples and pears. Varietal support prices have been negotiated and agreed with the industry. These will move each year in sympathy with the movements iti cash costs. At the end of each export season average varietal returns will be calculated from the results of all export sales. When the average varietal return exceeds the varietal support price growers will bc called on to contribute to the varietal fund. When the average varietal return falls below the varietal support price a payment will be made to growers from the fund. If insufficient money is available in the fund, the Commonwealth will contribute to the extent necessary. I remind the Senate that the maximum contribution of the fund is calculated on 4.4 million bushels at 80c a bushel. 
These are the mechanics of the scheme. I would like now to spend a few minutes in replying to some of the points raised by honourable senators. I will deal briefly with the point raised by  Senator Milliner  in his opening remarks. He expressed the concern of the Opposition at the fact that the Bill was introduced on one day and he and his colleagues were called upon to debate it the next day. I regret that this situation has arisen. However, I think the honourable senator will agree with me that the conduct of the business of the Senate from day to day is determined by the leaders of the various parties in the Senate. Unfortunately, although the Bills were in my hands and ready for introduction to the Senate, because of the arrangement reached between the leaders of the various parties as to what would be the business of the Senate, the Bills were not introduced in sufficient time to enable  Senator Milliner  to have 1 week in which to consider them. 
I think the honourable senator's view on that matter is something which he should bring up in his party room. 
I want to remind honourable senators that it is very important for this legislation to go through the Parliament because, as  Senator Wright  said in his remarks, the 1971 season has drawn to a close, the receipts from the sales of fruit are coming in and very shortly a payment must be made to the growers. I understand that the coming season's crop is in such a situation that it is now time for many growers to begin spraying operations and that if these spraying operations are not carried out when the time is ripe it could have a drastic effect on next season's crops. As many growers are dependent on the payment from last season's crop to make a down payment on their spraying operations, it is essential that there be no hold-up in the payment of this money to them. 

 Senator Milliner, who lead for the Opposition in this debate, believes that there should be a single national marketing authority. There are probably many people who agree with the honourable senator. Perhaps it is the best type of stabilisation plan to have. But it has taken the Government 3 years of negotiations to arrive at the present situation. Before a single marketing authority could be set up it would be necessary first of all to have agreement among all the States and I do not believe that such an agreement could be reached until the next meeting of the Australian Agricultural Council, which will be in February. It is obvious that there would be States at that meeting which would listen to the submissions put forward and then say: 'We cannot agree to that proposition at this stage. We believe that we must take it back to our own governments'. So the matter would have to be raised again at the next meeting of the Agricultural Council in the middle of the year, and perhaps at the subsequent meeting in February 1973. I do not believe that the industry can afford to wait that long. 
Those are some of the problems involved. Furthermore, it would be necessary not only lo have complementary legislation in all of the Stales but also legisla1ion passed by this Parliament for the setting up of a single marketing authority. I believe it would take time for this legislation to be prepared, introduced and passed. I also believe that considerably more than the amount of money which has been set aside under this legislation would be needed to acquire the whole of the apple crop. Such a proposal would require lengthy consideration by the Commonwealth Government. For the reasons 1 have stated, I do not believe that the industry can afford to wait so long for such a scheme to be introduced. 1 suggest to the Senate that it should support the 4 Bills which are before it and give the industry time to have a look at, thrash out and perhaps accept the proposal for a single marketing authority. Such a proposal could follow up the legislation now before the Senate. I am not condemning that proposal. Many industries have single marketing authorities at the present time. But they did not get their single marketing authorities overnight and they did not get them as a result of someone standing up in this Parliament and saying that they should have them. Single marketing authorities were established only after long and protracted negotiations between the industries concerned, the Department of Primary Industry, the Minister Primary Industry and the Ministers for Agriculture in the States. I believe such an authority could be established in this industry, but a lot of water will flow under the bridge before it is. 
One other comment I wish to make in regard to the remarks of  Senator Milliner  is in relation to his reference to having 2 Government representatives of the Apple and Pear Board. I believe that that is in the best interests of the apple industry. One representative will be there representing the Government and watching the interests of the Commonwealth and the other representative will be there as an independent  chairman.  Surely as an independent  chairman  he will act in the best interests of the industry itself. I believe that this will be a lot better than what has happened in the past. 
I wish to make a brief reference to the submission made by  Senator Webster.  I agree with his remarks about this stabilisation plan and how the Government tailors such a plan to suit the circumstances of an industry in consultation with that industry.  Senator Webster  went on to point out, as I have just done, the complexity of the plan and the negotiations that have been conducted between the Department of Primary Industry and the industry generally. He also made reference to devaluation. I do not want to debate that aspect at this stage.  Senator Webster  also spoke of the tariff position if the United Kingdom were to enter the European Economic Community and how we would go from a position where we have a slight preference to a position where the preference is against us. I agree with his remarks. He referred also to the performance over a long period of years of the Tasmanian ports and how the  Chairman  of the Tasmanian Fruit Board had this month expressed the industry's thanks lo the men at these ports for the work done by them! I could not agree more with him on that aspect. 

 Senator Devitt made a very useful contribution to the debate. He spoke from his experience of the industry in Tasmania. He also referred to the national marketing scheme in New Zealand.  Senator Wright  also spoke on this matter. I listened very carefully to their comments. I support  Senator Wright's  remarks on this subject. I point out to  Senator Devitt  that sometimes other fields look greener. New Zealand has one national government and no State governments. lt would be very much easier to implement such a scheme in that circumstances than it would be to implement one in Australia.  Senator Devitt  spoke of the difficulties experienced by the Australian industry. The Government has recognised these difficulties by introducing this plan. He spoke of how the freight situation at the present time is beyond the capability of the industry to manage. I remind the honourable senator that the Apple and Pear Board will be reopening negotiations with the shippers in London later this month on this matter. A special meeting is also to be held in Melbourne at the direction of the Minister for Primary Industry between representatives of the industry and representatives of the State agriculture departments and the  4  Commonwealth departments principally concerned.  I  know that  Senator Devitt  well understands the situation. 
He mentioned also the New Zealand marketing authority, and recalled the fact that the Tasmanian Government had asked for a Federal authority to acquire the apple and pear production and market it domestically and overseas; or secondly, a Federal export marketing authority; or thirdly, financial support for a State export marketing authority. 
We recognise all the points that honourable senators have made in this debate but the fact is that we have been able to reach this stage only after 3 long years ofnegotiation. The Government believes that by giving this assistance to the industry over the next 5 years the industry will beable to come to grips with some of the problems that face it. We hope that this will provide a breathing space. The Government cannot accept the Opposition's amendment. 
Question put: 
That the words proposedtobe added  (Senator Milliner's amendment)  be added. (The  President  -  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack) 
Ayes .. .. ..21 
Noes . .  . .  . . 25 
Majority . .  . .  4 
Question so resolved in the negative. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
Clauses 1 to 5 - by leave - taken together and agreed to. 
Clause  6  (Average export return). 
Under clause 6 (1.) the average return for a variety of fruit cannot be determined until all documents are received from the importers. This position may not always occur until after the end of a season. Clause 6 (2.) provides the method of determining the average export return. The returns to be brought to account are, firstly, those from sales of fruit exported on consignment; secondly, those from sales of fruit exported under a guaranteed advance contract and. thirdly, those from forward sales. Surely when all these are added up the price must be factual. One would not fool around with them. I think the honourable senator referred to sub-clause (5.) first. 
The honourable senator mentioned sub-clause (5.) and then referred to sub-clause (4.) afterwards. Under sub-clause (5.) the Board makes a recommendation in relation to the minimum price under the preceding sub-section; that is sub-clause (4.) Subclause (4.) provides for the prescription of a minimum price for a variety of fruit. But I understand that this regulation will be introduced when there are signs of irresponsible selling of fruit sent on consignment. In other words this sub-clause gives the Minister some basis on which  to  work out a minimum price when there has been some trouble within the industry. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 7 (Support price) 
The Government cannot accept this motion. As  Senator Milliner  has said, there is not a great deal of difference between the view of the Government and the view of the Opposition on this question. In framing this clause the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  recognised that, over the years, the Senate has said that it did not want the Minister to make regulations proclaiming things, or to make statements, as a result of which certain matters were determined. The Senate has said that it wanted the Parliament to prescribe various matters. This clause has been framed in this way to meet the wishes of the Senate that the varietal support price set for seasons subsequent to the first season may be examined by the Parliament. Surely this is the wish of the Opposition. If additional charges as set out in the motion are to be included, the concept of the Commonwealth's liability of $10m would have to be renegotiated because the charges for the transport, handling or storage of apples and pears have not been taken into account in arriving at this figure. 
The Commonwealth has offered the industry 81.0m for a period of 5 years. The industry has said that it wants 80c per bushel, which would provide maximum support for a total of 4.4 million bushels sold at risk. If the industry is willing to accept 60c per bushel a greater number of bushels can be sold in this way. I understand that this year about 7.6 million bushels will be available and that on this quantity the return to the growers will be about 47c per bushel. As I said a while ago when summing up, the growers are looking forward to receiving that 47c per bushel almost immediately because they want that money to enable them to carry on with their spraying operations for the crop which is coming on. If this Bill is delayed that money will not be available to the growers. I believe that the Government has tried to meet the wishes of the Senate by putting in this clause so that the Parliament shall prescribe the support price. At the same time the Government has offered $10m to support the industry over the next 5 years whereas the industry has asked for support to the extent of 80c per bushel. The industry's request puts a ceiling on the number of bushels that can come under the support plan. It is for these reasons that the Government cannot support the motion proposed by the Opposition. 
I think honourable senators will agree with me that in the past when dealing with primary industry Bills, particularly with clauses in the Committee stage, there has been criticism by the Opposition that quite often Parliament has been by-passed when it is sought to take certain action under those Bills. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  has been conscious of that criticism. In this Bill he has tried to introduce a clause which prescribes that Parliament can examine the varietal support prices set in seasons subsequent to the first- 
 In this clause. 
It says that in this clause. I went along with  Senator Cavanagh's  comments in the early stages. But then he started to deal with the theoretical part of it. He started to put to the Senate something that could happen in some way out case. I do not think that he was then dealing with a practical situation. I went along with the early part of his comments. I followed them closely and I agreed with them: but T could not follow and I could  not  agree with the latter part of his comments. 

 Senator Milliner said that Sl Om was a significant figure. 1 agree wholeheartedly with that. But, if he wants to include in this motion the transport, handling and storage of apples and pears, goodness knows what sum he will end up with. If that was the case, the Government would have to renegotiate the whole scheme because the Government has said to the industry, and it has agreed: 'Here is $1Om This is the support that we give you.' If  Senator Milliner  wants to include all those charges, he will finish up with goodness knows what sum. lt could be S15m or it could be $20m. I could not say what it would be. In that case the Government would have to say to the industry: 'We cannot go on with this. We have to have another look at this situation.' I do not think that  Senator Milliner  or his Party wants that.  Senator Milliner  wants some assistance to be given to this industry immediately. Then, having given that assistance to the industry, let us consult with it as we have been doing over the last 3 years and try to come to grips with some of these problems that are besetting the industry at the present time. For those reasons, neither I nor the Government can support the motion that  Senator Milliner  has moved. 
I wish to answer one or two points that have been raised. If I have offended  Senator Milliner,  I regret that. I did not argue the purpose of any delay. I argued the effect that any proposed delay could have on the industry. ] hope he accepts my comments in that way. I agree with the early part of  Senator Cavanagh's  comments. The Minister for Primary Industry will prescribe a varietal support price set in seasons subsequent to the first and the price that he prescribes will be in accordance with the movements in cash costs. 
This is what I am saying now. It would only be in accordance with the movements in cash costs. In that case it would be hardly likely that the Parliament would reject the change in the support price. On the other hand, if the matter were before the Parliament, it would have an opportunity of discussing and examining the whole situation. 
The Opposition has been critical of the Government because such a provision has not been contained in previous Bills of a similar nature. The Minister for Primary Industry has tried to overcome this criticism by inserting this clause in the Bill. Because he has tried to do this and because of the effect that possible delay could have on payments, the Government cannot support the motion moved by  Senator Milliner. 
Question put: 
That the clause be postponed. 
The Government cannot accept the amendment proposed by the honourable senator. As I said earlier, the Government is prepared to support the industry to the extent of $10m. The industry has said to the Government: 'We want support to the extent of 80c per bushel'. Over the 5- year period the support will amount to 4.4 million bushels. If the assistance were to be reviewed at the end of the season the industry could not possibly expect to receive the 80c per bushel it has asked for because if it did the Government would be up for twice the sum it has said it will give to the industry. What the Government is saying under this legislation is if the Industry wants more than the total of 4.4 million bushels it must take less support. 
A while ago I said that I understood that something like 7.6 million bushels had been sent overseas at the end of 1971 under this scheme. That quantity divided into the sum that the Government has said will be available over the next 5 years would mean that the growers would be entitled to something like 47c per bushel. If the Government were to go ahead in the manner the honourable senator has suggested and review the situation at the end of the first season and increase the quantity to be supported under the scheme and if it were to accede to the request of the industry for the payment of 80c per bushel it would cost the Government a lot more money. For that reason the Government cannot support the amendment moved by the Opposition. 
Question put: 
Thatthe words proposed to be inserted  (Senator Milliner's amendment)  be inserted. 
 Mr Chairman,  1 wish to make a short reference to the question asked of me a while ago by  Senator Devitt  in regard to clause S of the Bill, which establishes the stabilisation fund under the names specified in column 2 of the First Schedule to the Bill. If the honourable senator will turn to clause 17 he will find that it refers to column 3 of the First Schedule to the Bill, which sets out the maximum allowance allowed for each fund. When the amount in a particular fund gets up near the maximum amount of payment is made to the growers. 
The 
Minister for Supply has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
See Hansard, pages 1014-1015 of 30th September 1971 for my reply to this question. 
1 think I answered a similar question earlier in this sessional period along the lines that the deficiency payments would be paid through the broker to the producer. 
Yes. I also said that if there was a lien against the clip or something like that the broker would pay himself and the remaining money would be sent out with the sales accounts. 1 understand that that is the position. I will read the honourable senators question to see whether there is anything further to add. 
I understand the reason behind the honourable senator's question. The Western Australians attended a meeting that was held recently in Melbourne and put their case to the Board. I believe that they had 3 different proposals to put in the way of shipping and shipping freights, but that the Board adopted the view that as it is at the present time negotiating with the shippers on this matter it should not look at the Western Australian submission until it had thoroughly completed its negotiations. I understand also that the Western Australians want to bring representatives of the shippers into the meeting, but this was not accepted by the meeting and unfortunately the Western Australian delegates walked out of the meeting. 
I am quite sure that the honourable senator will be aware of the fact that under the rural reconstruction scheme the Commonwealth and each of the States agreed that moneys  should be paid to eligible producers engaged in the rural industries. The scheme stipulated that each State had to set up its rural reconstruction authority, and that authority was to make available to the eligible producers the money that had been provided to it by the Commonwealth. I understand that if the authority sees fit it may require that the moneys received on account of the property be received by the authority, by its agent or by some other authority or body nominated by the authority. I understand that under this plan payments within the approved budget are made through normal channels. 
I think the honourable senator is a little astray when he says that we are pouring money into the wool industry. I would like to remind him that, if the Australian Wool Commission had not come into being and used its reserve price scheme to protect the growers from receiving even lower prices, it is quite possible that the total return from the wool clip could have been down by 20 per cent. I think that is borne out by the prices received for those wools that are not under the protection of the Commission. In regard to the remainder of the question, I think the honourable senator meant SI 00m in his reference to the rural reconstruction scheme. All these schemes are brought in to play a part in the overall reconstruction of the rural industries. Each one of them cannot be taken separately and criticised; they must all be fitted into an overall picture. I will have a look at the question again and, if I have anything to add, I will do so on the next day of sitting. 
The 
Royal Australian Air Force has further plans for the houses in that area. However, I will have a look at the suggestion made by the honourable senator and, if 1 can do anything along the. lines he has suggested, I will do so. 
The 
Minister for the Navy has provided the following answers to the honourable senator's questions: 
The Federated Ship Painters and Dockers Union operates a daily 'pick-up* system for the supply of labour to waterfront employers and demands that the naval dockyards fill their requirements for Painter and Docker labour from this source. The Federated Shipwrights and Ship Constructors' Association also operates a 'pick-up' system but more flexibly than docs the Painters and Dockers Union. Occasionally the dockyards engage shipwrights through their normal recruiting processes and inform the Association afterwards. 
Dockyard managements do insist on their right to refuse employment to a person who is known to be unsatisfactory, but an undesirable feature of the 'pick-up' arrangement is that where nothing is known of him, management is unable to check a person's background before he starts work. 
Other Unions occasionally attempt to force dockyard managements to employ their members and sometimes exert direct industrial pressure to achieve this objective. The most recent case concerned the Federal Engine Drivers &amp; Firemen's Association. 
At least one official of the Federated Ship Painters and Dockers Union,  Mr Terry  Gordon, is known to be a member of the Communist Party. It is believed that some of the officials of the Federated Engine Drivers and Firemen's Association are communists. 
Although no official of the Shipwrights Association is known to be a Communist, there are indications that there is some communist influence active within the rank and file; this could also be said of many of the Unions with members employed in the dockyards whether Naval or otherwise. 
The honourable senator can be assured that the Minister and the Department of the Navy will take every step to ensure that problems such as these do not interfere with any shipbuilding programme allocated to Australian yards. 
The Minister for Supply has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
Although the lower priced drum conformed generally with the specified requirements, it had been found to have certain deficiencies in use. For example, the tensile strength of the head had not proved to be sufficient for the tensioning required for pipe band use. The selected drum which had also been purchased previously, had proved to be technically superior and longer lasting in Service conditions. 
The additional expenditure was regarded as justified in view of the technical superiority and greater durability of the drums purchased. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The cause of the accident was the failure of the undercarriage to lock down properly. 
No. 
The exact cost of repairing the damage to the aircraft is not yet known but it has been assessed as in excess of$1, 000. 
A public statement on this type of accident was not considered necessary particularly as none of the crew members was injured. 
The Minister for Supply has supplied the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
As requirements fluctuate it would not be practicable to guarantee any specific level of activity in respect of Government orders for defence equipment. This is particularly true in the defence aircraftindustry which suffers from troughs in demand between major production runs. 
It is recognised bythe Government that the present Australian aircraft industry relies on defence contracts for its basic workload, and a good deal of effort has been put into the development of projects for the industry in order to reduce the present troughin requirements. At the same time the industry is being encouraged to diversify its activities so asto broaden the workload base. The main purpose of the rationalisation studies now in hand at Fishermen's Bend is to achieve a more economic and effective industry. This course is considered to be in the best interests of the industry and those who work in it. 
It is stated policy to maintain a small viable defence aircraft industry in Australia and to support the 'industry with the available defence work which can be appropriately allocated to it: this is well known in the industry. 
The requirements of the Services which will result in workload for the industry are included in the Defence Programme. The industry, however, is normally aware of these requirements in advance of the Programme. 
Early knowledge of forward projects and their timing does not of itself permit elimination of employment troughs. The problem is a complex one. The aim is to reduce the troughs in activity by a combination of rendering the industry more flexible, economic and effective; broadening the workload base; limiting production peaks on major projects: and developing projects for attention between major production runs. 
-The Minister for the Navy has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Australian Security Intelligence Organisation has, over a long period of years, tendered advice and made recommendations concerning security in naval establishments,In1967 a Civilian Security section was established in the Department of the Navy, to reinforce the existing Service Security Organisation and a regular review of security measures is carried out and action (as may be practicable) taken to overcome such weaknesses as are revealed. 
It would be contrary to the national interest, for disclosure to be made of the contentsof security reports relating to naval establishments, or the times when such reports were made, or of action as a result thereof. 
The Minister for the Army has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
As at 7th October 1971 there were: 
29 members of the Royal Australian Army 
16 members of the Royal Australian Navy 
No members of the Royal Australian Air Force. being held at 1 Military Corrective Establishment, Holsworthy. 
For the information of honourable senators, I present Report No. 2 of the Atomic Weapons Tests Safety Committee entitled, 'Strontium 90 and Caesium 137 in the Australian environment during 1969 and some results for 1970.* 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill isto provide parliamentary approval for a scheme of deficiency payments to give wool growers an assured return during the 1971-72 season and to appropriate funds accordingly. The broad details of the scheme were provided in my statement to the Senate on 24th August last. This is not a short Bill and in order that honourable senators may be aware of its provisions it will be necessary to recapitulate on the earlier statement. It is common knowledge that wool growers' incomes have fallen markedly. Gross returns from wool declined from $839m in 1968-69 to $547m in 1970-71. During 1970-71 more than half of all wool growers were estimated to have less than $2,000 on which to live after servicing their debts. For a significant section of the Australian community this situation will be reflected in reduced standards of living; indeed it has been estimated that approximately one million persons are wholly or partly dependent upon the wool industry for their living. 
In these circumstances the Government decided to supplement market returns on wool for a period of one year. This will provide a much needed breathing space to enable adjustments to take place with a minimum of economic and social disruption. In addition the scheme will allow some payment of unsecured debts in the rural communities which are so dependent upon servicing the wool industry. During the course of the year it is anticipated that there will be a settlement of the international currency situation and other factors bearing on the price of wool, so that the market outlook will be seen with more clarity. So that there shall be no confusion I shall set out again the method for the determination of entitlement for deficiency payments. There will be a notional price schedule for all wool types constituting the Australian clip which would give an average price as near as possible to 79.37c per kilo greasy over the whole season for the full clip. This price is the metric equivalent of 36c per lb. 
Certain inferior wool types, making up about 10 per cent of the clip, will not receive deficiency payments. At the end of each auction week the Australian Wool Commission will calculate the difference between total proceeds realised for eligible wools ottered at all selling centres at which the Commission operated in that week and the total proceeds which would have resulted if the notional prices had been received for the same wool types. This difference will be calculated as a percentage and applied to the gross value of the eligible wool sold by a producer to determine the amount of the deficiency payment for each grower. For all wool sold during a week the same deficiency percentage will apply but the actual amount of deficiency payment received by each grower will depend on the market price of his wool. 
The scheme will cover wool sold and delivered by a producer in the period 2nd July 1971 to 30th June 1972. Wool which was delivered to brokers but not sold on 2nd July 1971 will be eligible for a deficiency payment when it is sold. Unsold wool on hand at close of business on 30th June 1972, will not be eligible. Wool purchased outside the auction system before 2nd July 1971, to be paid for before that date but not delivered until after that date, will not be eligible for a deficiency payment. However, where there was an agreement made before shearing to sell wool but payment did not become due until after 2nd July 1971 the wool will be eligible for a deficiency payment when it is delivered and full payment is made. For private sales made in the period 2nd July to 31st August 1971 the deficiency rate will be that established by the first week of auctions. 
For wool sold at auction brokers will forward to the Australian Wool Commission a list of their clients who sold wool at auction showing the amount of deficiency money payable. This will be calculated on the deficiency percentage for the auction week and applied to the sale value of the eligible wool sold on behalf of each client. The excluded wools will be identified during the normal pre-sale appraisement by the Australian Wool Commission. Before the prompt date the Commission, acting as an agent of the Commonwealth will make the payment to the broker for disbursement to his individual clients. Eligible wool owned by a producer which has been included in a price averaging plan pool during the period of this Act, that is pools 3 and 4, shall receive a deficiency payment. There will be a common deficiency percentage applied to the pool proceeds for each lot of wool sold from a pool, based on the average deficiency payments on wool sold from the pool. There is also provision in the Bill that the Commission may take interim deficiency payments on wool in a PAP pool. 
Merchants willing to make deficiency payments will be registered. A first sale to a merchant will attract a payment on the basis of the price in the wool shed on the property. At the time of sale the merchant and grower will sign a document attesting the sale. Registered merchants will claim on the Commission for a deficiency payment and then transmit it to the grower. In the case of an unregistered merchant, when the wool is delivered for resale either to a registered dealer, or at auction through a registered broker, the documents will accompany the wool and will be retained by the registered dealer or broker who will make the claim on the Commission and subsequently pass the deficiency payment directly to the producer. The whole of the Government's deficiency payments scheme and the market support by the Commission is based on the auction system. The calculation of deficiency payments for private sales on an 'on farm' basis as against deficiency payments calculated on a gross value basis for wool sold at auction should have the effect of encouraging merchants to increase the prices they are prepared to pay to growers which in turn will reinforce the auction floor prices. 
For privately sold wool it would not be practicable to have a Commission appraisement to determine for each sale the amount of inferior wool excluded from deficiency payments. Much of this wool loses its identity before it reaches a capital city. The only practicable means of estimating the amount of such excluded wools is by taking account of the average price paid to a producer by a wool merchant. The proportion of the sale proceeds on which the deficiency payment will be calculated for private sales will be progressively reduced as the average price falls below the market price for eligible wools. When the price of any private sale falls below the average market price of wools excluded from deficiency payments it will be regarded as containing only excluded wools and there will be no deficiency payment. The adjustment to take account of excluded wools will be made in accordance with a conversion table contained in the Second Schedule to the Bill which is calculated to have the same average effect as if the wool were appraised by the Commission. Provision is made to vary the conversion table by regulation to take account of changes in the market price on which the table is based. 
Where wool is exported by a producer, sold by tender or used by the producer in manufacture the value for such wool for the calculation of deficiency payment will be the current market value as determined by the Commission on an Australian auction floor basis and the inferior wools will be excluded on the basis of the appraisement. I referred earlier to the inferior wool types which make up approximately 10 per cent of the clip. The aim in excluding these wools was to withdraw support from wools which do not bear the full cost of the disproportionately high sale and handling costs they involve. The Government considered that it would be undesirable to encourage delivery of such wools by increasing their value through the mechanism of deficiency payments. 
It will be seen from the First Schedule to the Bill that the excluded wools are primarily locks, crutchings and similar wools which are common to the whole clip and the incidence should be equitable as between growers. Honourable senators will note that some change from the list tabled in the Senate on 24th August last has been made in the wools to be excluded, to ensure that in the present apparent over supply situation of wool, all growers would share in the exclusion. These wools are easily identifiable by growers and are difficult to mix with eligible woo! without being readily detected. Growers who fail to class out these types of wool will be penalised either by having their wool re-classed at their expense or by the lower price received. 
In general, the intention is that the deficiency payment will be paid along with the proceeds of the wool and there will be the same legal rights in the deficiency payment as in the sale proceeds unless there is  a  separate agreement between a producer and a creditor covering the direction of  a  deficiency payment. Accordingly it is necessary for the legislation to provide who is to get the payment and what are the rights of persons for the payments. This is set out in Clause  9  of the Bill. In my earlier statement reference was made to the exclusion of wool on sheepskins from deficiency payments. In this situation the scheme may provide some inducement for shearing of sheep before slaughter. Such a practice could interfere with the local fellmongering of skins and Australia's overseas trade in sheepskins. Accordingly the Bill provides that wool received from butchers, who purchased the sheep for slaughter, will not be eligible for a deficiency payment. This whole matter will be kept under review. 
The payments mechanism will depend upon the active co-operation of persons carrying on business as brokers, registered classing houses, wool merchants and agents who export wool, or who sell wool by tender on behalf of producers. Such persons will be registered on application to the Department of Primary Industry and will undertake certain responsibilities in the documentation of sales, the provision of information and calculations relating to deficiency payments and the passing on of such payments from the Commission to eligible producers. It is not intended that such persons will be paid for their services as all sectors of the wool industry will benefit directly or indirectly from the scheme. However the wool industry has in recent years become increasingly geared to computers in the calculation of accounts and where the Government is satisfied that a significant cost has been incurred in reprogramming these facilities for the purpose of the scheme it may make some reimbursement. The Government will also meet the costs incurred by the Commission in the administration of the scheme. 
The Bill contains the necessary provisions to protect public moneys by way of penalties for fraudulent activities and the recovery of moneys. The measures provided in this Bill give effect to a scheme which is as fair to all growers as can be devised, having in mind the objective of lifting the average price of the Australian clip of wool and the need to preserve equity between growers. At the same time the Government has been mindful to ensure that, as far as practicable, the position of the various persons who service  the  industry has been protected. Coming at a time when the Commonwealth and the States are deeply involved in rural reconstruction this is a most appropriate measure. While substantial restructuring and readjustments in the industry are inevitable the scheme now before the Senate will provide some cushioning of these effects and will be a steadying influence on those lenders who are concerned to realise on their security. It will allow necessary changes to take place in a more orderly manner. 
The Government recognises that the present crisis in the wool industry calls for a number of measures which in aggregate represent a concerted approach to the urgent problems affecting wool growers. The deficiency payments scheme should be viewed in the context of this total approach. While marketing, research into industry problems and farm reconstruction are being pursued with all urgency, these are essentially longer term in their effects. Immediate assistance is clearly needed in the present situation. The combined effect of the Commission's marketing activities and the deficiency payments scheme will be to lift wool growers' returns by some $100m over last year's market place realisations. This will go far towards preserving the wool industry's viability and the beneficial effects will be widely felt throughout the whole Australian community of people, particularly in the rural areas.I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Wilkinson)  adjourned. 
Sitting suspended from 4.32 to 10.15 p.m. 
I am only the representative in this chamber of the Minister for Supply. I will have to approach the Minister and obtain an answer to the question asked by the honourable senator. 
Pursuant to section 7 of the Tobacco Industry Act 1955- 1965, I present the sixteenth annual report on the operation of the Act for the year ended 30th June 1971. 
Pursuant to section 82 of the Repatriation Act 1920- 1971, I present the reports of War Pensions Entitlement Appeal Tribunals Nos 1, 2, 3 and 4 for the year ended 30th June 1971 and No. 5 in respect of the period 1st July 1970 to 21st June 1971. 
I am sure that the honourable senator will recall that in the Fraser-Laird agreement of last year it was agreed between Australia and the United States of America that certain static and fatigue tests should be carried out and that the results of these tests should be made known by October of this year. Some of these tests have fallen behind schedule and information in regard to them is still coming through. Other tests have been completed, and officials of my Department at present are studying reports of those tests. I hope that very shortly a submission will be placed before the Cabinet so that early in December a decision can be made about whether there is sufficient evidence to go ahead with the ordering of the Fill. 
I mean to take delivery of them. I stand corrected. The amount for storage has not been finalised yet; so I can give the honourable senator no information beyond that which I gave him the last time he asked a similar question. 
I have seen the article referred to by the honourable senator and I am quite sure that he, as well as many other honourable senators, will be aware of the views of  Mr Pedlow  on the private buying of wool in Western Australia. The wool deficiency payments scheme has as its sole purpose the payment to growers of a price support through registered private buyers or through the brokers. I believe that it would be much more costly and clumsy to operate the scheme in any other way. I remind the Senate that the price support scheme is based on the average price obtained for wool at auction. The Australian Wool Commission uses statistical information which is obtained through the auction system. Therefore this scheme has been introduced to meet a present problem facing the wool industry. It will give the wool industry a breathing space to look at these problems and try to use methods to overcome them. 
I assure the honourable senator that no discrimination is necessarily made against those who sell wool privately. The private buyer who is not undercutting the market should be able to pay to the grower an amount which with the deficiency payment would result in the grower receiving the same net amount as he would receive if he had sold at auction. In regard to the amount of money cited by the honourable senator as the sum that will be made available in this respect, the Secretary of the Department of Primary Industry has, with the approval of the Minister for Primary Industry, the power to make payments on behalf of the Commonwealth to registered persons for the performance of certain functions. The second reading speech on the Bill states that brokers will need to re-programme their electronic data processing equipment, so payments will be made available for this purpose. However, at this time I cannot give the honourable senator the total cost because I do not know how many pieces of equipment will need to be re-programmed. No payment will be made to the brokers for doing the work carried out with deficiency payments. 
Yesterday  Senator Cavanagh  asked me a question and 1 promised to seek further information regarding the availability of houses in the Tindal area. There are 1 14 transportable houses at Tindal which were provided for use by the Airfield Construction Squadron when the airfield was being constructed. The Royal Australian Air Force has a continuing need for a number of these houses but is currently negotiating to dispose of the remainder. These negotiations have not yet been finalised. 
The houses are designed so that they can be re-located and if agreement is reached for their disposal it will be the RAAF requirement that they should be removed from the Tindal Air Base. The reason for this is that Tindal is used for operational exercises and it would be inconvenient and undesirable for security reasons to have these houses occupied by other than Service personnel in what is a RAAF secure base. 
in reply - In responding to the debate on the motion for the second reading of this Bill I should like, firstly, to thank honourable senators for the attention they have given to the debate. Also I am appreciative of the fact that no honourable senator wants to oppose the Bill. I propose briefly to summarise the purpose of the Bill by saying that it is to amend the Livestock Slaughter Levy Act 1964-1968 to provide for the extension, for a further period of 3 years from 1st January 1972 to 31st December 1974, of the special levy on livestock slaughterings to provide finance for the operations of the meat industry service and investigation section of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation Meat Research Laboratory at Cannon Hill. 
The levy was introduced originally in January 1969 at the request of the Australian Meat Exporters Federal Council, the Australian Meatworks Federal Council and the Meat and Allied Trades Federation of Australia. These organisations have agreed to an extension of the levy for a further period of 3 years. This extension has been supported by the Council of Australian Public Abattoirs Authorities. The levy is payable by the meatworks and may not be passed back to the vendors of the livestock. I should like to point out that in this respect the levy differs from another levy that has been mentioned during the debate. The rate of levy is to remain unchanged at lc per head on cattle which are over 200 lb dressed weight and 0.1c per head on sheep and lambs. The expenditure of funds raised by the levy is matched on a $1 for $1 basis by the Commonwealth. 1 propose to refer briefly to the type of research which will be financed by the levy. The industry section of the Meat Research Laboratory in the CSIRO Division of Food Preservation has set up schools to investigate the ageing of meat and to ascertain the best time to package meat; that is, whether it is best to package meat 1 day, 2 days or 14 days after the meat has been killed. Finance is made available also for demonstrations in various States of cleaning and sanitation procedures and to advise on the best detergents to be used in meatworks. Also, as  Senator Webster  mentioned, finance is made available for studies of the use of X-ray equipment to detect cysticercus ovis, to assist meatworks experiencing spoilage problems and to help with microbiological and quality control procedures. In other words, after the meat is killed it is affected by microbes, and the meatworks want to know why microbes enter the meat and what is the best action to take to overcome the problem. Then there is the issue of technical reports relating to the matters I have mentioned. Finance is available also for the distribution of a newsletter. Information contained in the newsletter relates to the storage of meat, the packaging of chilled meat, the process of foam cleaning of CLA, or cheesy glands as it is commonly called, and also problems of cysticercus ovis. This is the type of purpose for which money raised by the levy is used. 
In opening the debate on behalf of the Opposition  Senator Drury  referred to synthetic meats and the importance of watching carefully the development of them. He pointed, as an example, to the inroads that synthetics have made into the fibre market and their effect on the wool industry. He suggested that if a close watch were not kept on the production of synthetic meats inroads could be made into the market for meat. I should like to take the matter a little further and repeat what I said to  Senator Drury  in answer to a question asked in the Senate some time ago. On that occasion I said that the Australian Agricultural Council had had the matter of synthetic meats under review since 1969 and that the Animal Production Committee, the Australian Meat Board and the Department of Trade and Industry had been requested by the Australian Agricultural Council to keep this matter under review. 
If we refer to the Australian Meat Board's annual report, which was tabled in this place on 28th September, we see the position clearly set out. The report states that the Board is conscious of the threat being posed by the development of synthetic or imitation meats, that every endeavour has been made to alert the industry to the dangers and that legislation is desirable to prevent the use of the word 'meat' in connection with the importation, manufacture or sale of any product other than a recognised meat product. 
I remind the Senate that in April last year, at the request of the Meat Board, the then Minister for Primary Industry wrote to all State Ministers asking them to examine their legislation concerning the labelling and description of such products to ensure that misdescription did not occur. The latest information on this matter is that the States are currently reviewing their legislation.  Senator Drury  spoke also about the export of meat to the United States of America. I understand that the fall in the shipments of mutton to the United States in 1970-71 compared with 1969-70 was a direct result of the United States ban on mutton from Australia which was imposed in the middle of 1970. It was not until March that a significant number of works which formerly had prepared mutton for the United States were reinstated to prepare mutton for that market. Hence the 13,000 tons exported in 1970-71 was a reasonable achievement. The slight fall in shipments of beef and veal to the United States arose because of a strong demand from other markets. In particular, shipments of beef and veal to Japan rose from 16,000 tons in 1969-70 to 29,700 tons in 1970-71. Shipments to the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics increased from 15,000 tons to 24,000 tons. These 2 markets, which represent a total increase of about 23,300 tons, more than compensate for the fall in exports to the United States. I shall make one other comment in relation to brucellosis about which  Senator Primmer  and  Senator Georges  spoke. I recognise the importance of this matter. The Australian Agricultural Council has dealt with it on a number of occasions and work is being done on it. I shall certainly convey the remarks of the honourable senators to the Minister. If there is any further information which I can give to them on this matter 1 shall do so. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without requests or debate. 
At a later dale I will be introducing in this place legislation dealing with this matter. At present I do not have information as to which States passed legislation and the amounts made available. I shall seek that information and give it to the honourable senator. 
I regret to say that I did not hear all of the honourable senator's question. I think that he asked me whether I would make an investigation into the formulation of uniform transport laws in the States and that he referred to the cost of transporting wool from the shed door to the factory door. I recognise that a number of States have laws which force up the cost of wool transport. That happens because of the insistence of those States that the wool be transported by rail. I understand that the Australian Wool Board has reported on that matter and that the Bureau of Agricultural 
Economics is at present studying wool handling and transportation costs. 1 believe that the Bureau of Transport Economics, which 1 understand is a part of the Department of Shipping and Transport, is also conducting an investigation into this matter. I will have a look at the remainder of the honourable senator's question. If I have any further information to add I will do so. 
I have seen the reports to which the honourable senator referred. There is a great deal of misunderstanding in this matter. The Commonwealth made available to the States $100m over 4 years. The money was made available in 2 parts and it was set down that the States would make half the money available for farm build-up and the other half for debt reconstruction. I understand that up to 25th October about 1,700 applications had been received in New South Wales. Of these 1,548 were for debt reconstruction. There were 152 applications for farm build up, which is only about 9 per cent of the total applications received. Therefore the honourable senator can see that most of the money is wanted for debt reconstruction. New South Wales was allocated $4m last year and it is to receive $1 1.98m this year. That State also had a total of about $2.5m in pre-war funds. This makes a total of $18m available to New South Wales, most of which is wanted for debt reconstruction. The State claims that if it services all of these applications it will use more money than is allocated for debt reconstruction. This is where the difference of opinion lies. There is not a shortage of money but there is a difference of opinion as to where that money is to be directed. 
It is the practice of the Royal Australian Air Force to work in with State authorities. If there is a flood we work in with the civil defence system. If a ship is lost we work in with the Department of Shipping and Transport. In the case of fire, which is what the honourable senator is referring to, I should say that if the authorities concerned asked the Air Force for assistance it would make assistance available. 
Yes, only if asked. We do not go about telling other authorities what they should do or how they should do it. If a request is made to our appropriate authorities we investigate the matter and, if we are able to assist, we endeavour to do so. 
The Minister for Supply has furnished the following reply: 
Enquiries so far made by the Commonwealth Police Force indicate that some film was removed without authority from the Weapons Research Establishment. The film in question was not included in a film editing machine sold at public auction. On 18th October 1971 in the Adelaide Magistrates Court a charge of receiving certain film knowing it to have been stolen was found proved but the Magistrate dismissed the charge pursuant to section 1 9B ofthe Crimes Act. The defendant had pleaded gulty. Police enquiries are continuing. 
Following an anonymous telephone call to the Commonwealth Police, the film was sought at the Adelaide East Parklands barbecues. No pieces of burned paper were removed for identification. 
The Minister for Supply has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The capital investment in new factories and establishments of the Department of Supply was as follows: 

<graphic href="050232197110281_10_0.jpg"></graphic>

The capital investment in extensions and modifications, including Plant and Machinery, for existing factories and establishments was: 

<graphic href="050232197110281_10_1.jpg"></graphic>

The cost of the new clothing factory in Victoria, including cost of land, buildings and plant, will be $1.765m. Approximately 800 people are currently employed at the factory. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
Under the existing cost formula for charging RAAF VIP aircraft travel, the estimated cost involved is$A23,347. 
The flight by the RAAF BAC1-11 to Iran was undertaken with the full authority and support of Ministers to enable the Governor-General to represent Australia fittingly at the celebration of the 25th century of the Iranian Monarchy. 
These celebrations are being attended by Heads of State, Heads of Governments and other distinguished representatives of many countries of the world, many of whom will be travelling in their own aircraft. The Government feels that Australia as a country with significant standing in international circles is fittingly represented by the GovernorGeneral, and that it was right and proper for the Governor-General to use an aircraft of the VIP flight. 
Pursuant to section 30 of the Honey Industry Act 1962-1966, I present the eighth annual report of the Australian Honey Board for the year ended 30th June 1971, together with financial statements and the AuditorGeneral's report on those statements. The interim report of the Board was presented to the Senate on 8th September 1971. 
Pursuant to section 10 of the Royal Australian Air Force Veterans' Residences Act 1953-1965, I present the annual report of the Royal Australian Air Force Veterans' Residences Trust for the year ended 30th June 1971,  together with financial statements and the Auditor-General's report on those statements. 
by leave - The statement I am about to make was made today in another place by the Minister for the Navy  (Dr Mackay).  The statement is couched in the first person and honourable senators will understand that the use of the first person personal pronoun relates to the Minister for the Navy. 
The Senate will recall my statement on 28th April when I announced that I had asked  His  Honour Judge Rapke, Q.C., of the Victorian County Court, to consider and report to me: (a) Whether there is evidence of the existence of any forms of initiation or similar practices in HMAS Leeuwin which involve organised physical violence, degrading or bullying behaviour, (b) 
Whether there is evidence over recent years of any pattern of undue physical violence or bullying among junior recruits. Subsequently, on 30th April, I stated that in view of the increasing interest which had centred around the particular case of Junior Recruit Connolly, I had asked  His  Honour to examine this case first and without prejudice to his wider inquiry. On 6th May I issued a statement on the preliminary report presented by the judge on that case, and this was made available to all senators and members. 
I have recently received from the Judge his report on the wider inquiry in accordance with the terms of reference given to him on 28th April. The Judge has stated that the material on which his report and findings are based may be summarised as follows: 
The testimony of 467 witnesses interviewed at HMAS 'Leeuwin', in Melbourne, Adelaide, Sydney and Brisbane, and on board HMAS 'Sydney', between 30th April and 3rd July 1971; 
Written memoranda handed to him by witnesses or communicated to him by various authorities particularly in answer to requests by him for special assistance on specific matters. 
A detailed examination of the medical records of and from 'Leeuwin' relating to traumatic injuries treated in sick bay at that establishment and at hospitals ashore; 
Seminars and information discussion groups conducted at 'Leeuwin' and Nirimba' and on board 'Sydney'; 
Civilian witnesses called mainly from those who responded to requests for anybody having any information on the subject of the inquiry to communicate with the Judge, and also from persons who bad been reported in the Press as the authors of information reported by the Press; and 
Experts in criminology and social sciences specially approached by the Judge. 
As honourable senators will recall, this inquiry was conducted in camera, for the reason explained by me in a previous statement. I said: 
The preliminary inquiry will be strictly privateas though the Judge were talking with people in chambers. It would defeat the whole concept if the public or Press were present and these persons felt that they were speaking on the record. 
As in the case of the first report dealing with the Connolly case, and for the same reasons, I do not consider that it would be desirable to make this report public. I shall, however, continue my practice of making a copy available in confidence to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  and the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  so that it may be known that nothing of importance is hidden which should be made public. 
Before proceeding to the conclusions and recommendations of the inquiry I should like to recall to the Senate the great spate of national publicity - invariably in highly critical and condemnatory terms - which was given in late April-early May to various specific allegations published at that time. The Judge investigated all these reports and interviewed the persons stated to have been the authors of information reported by the Press. It is worth referring to his findings on some of these cases in particular. One was the case of Leading Junior Recruit J. R. Russell, which I referred to in a statement in Parliament on 27th April last. The Judge examined this case in depth, and though for good reasons I shall not repeat the detail from his report, I quote his finding. He said: 
The Russell case is therefore unrelated to any organised violence. It is a case of a squabble over trifles getting out of hand and unexpectedly an unintentionally leading to disastrous results. Such an incident could arise at any place and at any time. The Junior Recruit who committed the main assault was punished. I saw him and he is a very sorry and chastened lad who wrote his regrets to Russell who proudly showed me the note. Both boys are good types of recruits. 
Another allegation which received wide publicity in early May was that 'sadism is rife on HMAS "Sydney"'. The Judge examined this accusation in great depth, and has reported as follows: 
The suggestion that the ship is in any way distracted by the juvenile activities occurring at Leeuwin' is a figment of the imagination. As far as I have been able to discover in what I regard as a very comprehensive research into the matter under discussion there is not a shred of evidence to support the suggested sadism, or whatever other expression emanates from a journalist's emotive mind, to describe the conduct referred to. I give the 'Sydney' a clean bill of health in the problem under survey. 
Though not strictly related to the 'Leeuwin' inquiry, the Judge investigated a Press story on 28th April which reported that a former naval officer had claimed that a bastardisation' ceremony at the Royal Australian Naval College, Jervis Bay, had hampered the 'Voyager' rescue operation on 10th February 1964. The article reminded its readers that 82 men had died in this disaster, and the inference was obvious and powerful. His Honour has reported on this allegation as follows: 
I find as a fact that the headline ... of 28th April reading - 'Initiation Hampered Rescue Craft', and the subsequent report that i hour's delay was caused to the rescue operations is entirely baseless and incorrect. I am not prepared to find that the person responsible for the . . . report was the author of a fiction not given to him by his informant, or whether the informant in his communications with the Press left a reasonable reporter with the impression conveyed by the dastardly headline and story. All in all it is illustrative of the bias against the good name of the Navy that marred so much of the journalistic contributions to the matters under investigation by me. 
I come now to Judge Rapke's findings on the terms of reference of his inquiry. As I have stated these were: 
Whether there is evidence of the existence of any forms of initiation or similar practices in HMAS 'Leeuwin' which involve organised physical violence, degrading or bullying behaviour. 
Whether there is evidence over recent years of any pattern of undue physical violence or bullying among junior recruits. 
I quote the relevant passages from the report: 
Organised initiation ceremonies, a formal pattern of bastardisation, or any form of patterned violence or misbehaviour have never been, a part of the programme, official or otherwise, at 'Leeuwin'. 
The strict answer to the two questions which are contained in my terms of reference should therefore be no. 
The inquiry revealed that in 1970, of ail the cases of physical injury reported, and relating to more than 650 boys, 22 could be held to be caused by fighting or bullying. Again in 1971 nine such cases had been identified to date, of which 3 were minor, and in 2 cases the incidents were reported and the offenders punished. This tends to support the initial assessment I gave of the proportion of such occurrences. The report then goes on to discuss the damaging effects of 'unorganised and repetitive acts of bullying, violence, degradation and petty crime' when they occur. Although these incidents apply only to a small minority, nevertheless they 'are pernicious in their deep effect on the young sailor at an early and impressionable time in his naval career' and 'the physical and mental damage to the victims was and is deplorable'. The judge felt that losses by discharge could be greater than normal because of bullying; also because these practices could provoke some junior recruits to commit offences in order to obtain discharge, the formal reason for discharge in some cases reflected unfairly on the junior recruit involved. The judge declared 'the condemnation which you gave expression to is in my opinion well justified and the warnings of the action to be taken were necessary'. 
His Honour has devoted a considerable portion of his report to a discussion of both the problem and ways arid means of improving the position. I do not propose to discuss in detail the many suggestions proffered by the Judge in his report. They cover a wide range of matters, directed to every phase of activity that has a bearing on the question. His proposals include: 
Increase in the complement and continuity of the training and divisional staffs at the establishment, and improvements in their selection and training. 
Increased supervision of junior recruits and greater participation by the staffs in junior recruit activities. 
More intensified organisation of the  reoreation  time of junior recruits and the provision of considerably increased recreational facilities. 
Segregation of new intakes during their first 2 or 3 months. 
Changes in the training programme with a view to providing the less studious recruits with more physically demanding activities. 
Assignment of responsibilities to selected senior junior recruits for maintenance of good behaviour and order under a prefect type system. 
All these matters, and others that have come to notice, will receive urgent study by the appropriate Navy directorates and authorities. Some of the proposed measures for effecting improvements will be brought into effect quickly. Others are of a more long term nature and some, regrettably, will be dependent on the provision of additional resources, both financial and manpower, which may not bc readily available. 
I have stated on previous occasions that physically violent, degrading or bullying behaviour will not be tolerated in the Navy, especially towards its junior members. I am determined that every possible effort will be made to stamp it out where it is found to occur, and to introduce effective measures to ensure its detection and eradication. 1 entirely concur in the following view expressed by Judge Rapke in the concluding remarks of his report: 
It will bc noticeable that no-one has suggested that the remedies can ever include the total eradication of the appetite for self-assertion that many lads possess. A check of this view with experts whom I have consulted and whose writings I have read supports this. But the alternative view was that bullying, like the poor, will always be with us. I prefer the view that a quality of  selfassertiveness  (unless it has developed to the stage where serious criminal behaviour results) can be re-orientated and directed into useful and even leadership value for the Navy. 
I was pleased lo read in the report the Judge's commendatory remarks about the sponsor system which has been in operation at 'Leeuwin' for some time. Under this scheme local families generously extend their hospitality and friendship to individual junior recruits from other States. This has been highly valued by the naval authorities and the boys. The Judge has stated: 
Its maintenance, extension, organisation and supervision should bc encouraged. Much good can come from an early contact with suitable families in the Perth area and the meeting of junior recruit and sponsor should take place as soon as practicable after entry. Some evidence in this inquiry was commendatory of 'Leeuwin' - when the media rejected the informants they turned to me and 1 was glad to hear them - and these witnesses included people who were sponsors as well as those who had cause to be grateful to their sponsors. 
Finally, I would be remiss if I did not pay a tribute to His Honour Judge Rapke for the thorough and painstaking investigation he has undertaken, and the thoughtful and helpful suggestions he has offered. I assure the House that these will all be fully and carefully examined, and wherever practicable measures will be introduced to achieve necessary improvements. 
In compiling his report the Judge has carried out faithfully my requirement - not so much to assess HMAS 'Leeuwin' or its role in junior recruit training as to investigate fully and impartially the prima facie evidence relating to a number of unfortunate incidents. In so doing, he scrupulously avoided any action which might even have appeared to be collusion with the command at 'Leeuwin'. Commodore Ramsay may have felt that, in this way, he in particular was being treated with suspicion or was even under accusation. I want to take this opportunity of saying that, from first hand knowledge, I believe the Commodore to be a dedicated and conscientious officer who has become a respected 'father figure' in his command. That he has had to cope with a small minority of lads who have caused trouble is no fault of his and no more reflection on him than on the rest of our community. Every parent, every schoolmaster* indeed every responsible citizen shares his problems. The Commodore is, I hope, compensated by the greater privileges and pleasures of his successful endeavours which see the vast majority of young men emerge every year disciplined, enthusiastic and mentally and physically fitted for service of their country. 
I am seeking information already on some aspects of the matter raised by the honourable senator. I think that this question should therefore go on notice so that I can obtain further information. 
As the 
Leader of the Australian Democratic Labor Party knows, I am responsible for the approval of applications by Ministers and the Leader of the Opposition and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition for the use of VIP aircraft. All applications to me must contain the date and the time of departure and arrival, the reason for the flight and why commercial aircraft cannot be used. Details of the passengers carried must also be shown. One other requirement is that the next of kin of each passenger on the aircraft has to be given. On this occasion  Mr Whitlam  applied for the use of an aircraft. He had a requirement to be at a function in Albury at a certain time and at a further function in Brisbane later in the day. No commercial aircraft was available that would suit his requirement to be at the 2 places. As his application complied with all the requirements laid down for the use of VIP aircraft, I had no alternative but to give him approval to make the flight. From the time it left Canberra to go to Albury and then to Brisbane before coming back to Canberra the aircraft was away for 7 hours and 5 minutes. The cost of a VIP HS 748 flight works out at about $205.50 an hour. If one multiplies that figure by the time taken to complete the journey, which was just over 7 hours, one gets just over $1,400, which is almost the amount the Leader of the Democratic Labor Party mentioned. 
I do not know whether I would agree with the honourable senator that there is discontent throughout the rural community because of the matter to which he refers. There is some discontent because of the prices rural producers are receiving for their products. However, I will ask the Minister for Primary Industry to have a look at the honourable senator's question and to give him a reply. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
The Royal Australian Air Force establishment at Regents Park is No. 2 Stores Depot, a functional storage facility for bulk stocks of equipment. In accordance with recommendations by the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works (3rd Report of 1971), the area owned by the RAAF at Chester Hill, which is in close proximity to Regents Park, is to be developed to provide domestic accommodation for Service personnel employed at No. 2 Stores Depot and at other RAAF units in the Sydney metropolitan area. Work at Chester Hill is planned for construction in the financial year 1972-73. Redevelopment of storage facilities at the Regents Park site has also reached an advanced stage of planning and proposals will in due course be submitted for consideration by the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works. 
Recently a review was made of the amenities available to civilian staff at the Regents Park Depot. As a result approval was given for the erection of five pre-fabricated portable buildings to provide lunch and change room facilities. Three of the buildings have already, been completed and the other 2 will be erected within the next few days. A locker is available on request to each member of the civilian staff employed at the Regents Park Depot and there is no need for any employees to share lockers. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
The land proposed for acquisition by the Commonwealth for air traffic control, communication and navigational aid purposes is that land above the 300 ft contour on Many Peaks Range. The Department of the Interior is at present arranging a survey of the area to determine the details; it is estimated that the area involved will be in the order of500 acres. 
Installations are planned for construction on the eastern and western extremities of the Range. Access to that on the eastern end will be by road approximately¾ mile in length from the existing quarantine station on Commonwealth land on Cape Pallarenda. Subsequently, the road will require extension by approximately 2 miles to the western end of the range; the location of both sections will be subject to the survey referred to above and will be determined in conjunction with the Queensland Lands Commission and the Townsville City Council. The whole of the area concerned will not be fenced, the requirement for fencing will be limited to the immediate site for each facility; maximum fenced areas envisaged at any installation will be 500 ft square. 
1 would have to seek details of the points raised by the honourable senator. 1 shall do so and supply him with an answer tomorrow morning. 
Pursuant to section 29 of the Wine Overseas Marketing Act 1929-1966, I present the forty-third annual report of the Australian Wine Board for the year ended 30th June 1971. 
I did read the report. I have taken note of what the honourable senator has said. I most certainly will talk to the Minister for Customs and Excise. But I point out to the honourable senator that the Prime Minister established an interdepartmental committee comprising representatives from the Prime Minister's Department and the Departments of the Treasury, Customs and Excise and Primary Industry to examine this situation in the wine industry with specific reference to the effect of the excise duty. This examination has been carried out already. The committee reported that comparative statistics were incomplete but that there appeared to be a sales drop in some sectors of the industry. The causes of this drop in the main seem to lie in marketing problems, and excise could not be said to be solely or even largely the reason for this drop as represented by the industry. Having said that. I will convey the sentiments of the honourable senator to the Minister. 
The 
Minister for Primary Industry did not take action to call a special meeting of the Agricultural Council. I understand that legislation to control egg production already exists in Western Australia and that the governments of Queensland and New South Wales are thinking of implementing such legislation. The Tasmanian Government has stated that if excess egg production occurs it will introduce control measures. At present Victoria will not agree to introduce control measures. Until Victoria agrees to come in, a Commonwealth set-up cannot be established, but perhaps control legislation will be operating in 4 States. 
The gentleman referred to by the honourable senator is entitled to his own views. He has had considerable experience in many aspects of the wool industry. However, I take issue with him when he says that payments totalling over $20m do nothing to help the wool industry. 
You may have said that but 1 am talking about the facts. The emergency scheme to help the wool industry provided for assistance up to $30m but a sum of just over $20m has been actually paid to wool growers. The matter was complicated because of certain restrictions applied to wool growers. Many cases which otherwise may have been considered worthy of assistance were declared ineligible and not entitled to assistance after the application of a sort of means test. Now that the issue is closed anyone can comment on what has happened and can say that the scheme was not helpful to the industry, but at the time the industry had to meet a crisis quickly. The Government had to get money quickly into the hands of the growers and the way to do it was to avoid a long rigmarole in establishing entitlement under involved and drawn-out legislation. That is why the Government acted as it did. I do not think that the Government would take that action again, in view of the experience it has gained, but the fact is that it did take that action. I repeat chat  Sir Norman  Giles is entitled to his own opinion. 
1 have not held the portfolio of Minister for Air for 2 years yet, and I think that the honourable senator is stretching my memory a little with his question. I will have inquiries made into the matter he has raised and let him have an answer. 
All the people that the honourable senator named are entitled to use a VIP plane if they have to meet a commitment. As to whether they have used the planes, I cannot keep all the various applications in my head. I shall check and find out for the honourable senator who used the planes, and when, and the other information be seeks. 
From time to time flights have taken place within the curfew hours. Because of their type some of these aircraft are entitled to fly within the curfew. 
We endeavour not to be any rowdier than possible, according to the type of aircraft used. 
If the honourable senator likes to impress on his own leader, for instance, that he should not use a plane after hours, I will be quite happy about it. He has made applications and wc have talked about this but he has taken the aircraft because he was committed and was required to be at a certain place. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The North West Wheat Research Institute at Narribri is a New South Wales Wheat Industry Research Committee project which was commenced in 1958-59. Income available to the Committee is derived from the Wheat Tax of1/4c per bushel of wheat levied on New South Wales growers under the Commonwealth Wheat Tax Act. Allocations of funds available to the Institute from the State Committee and from the Commonwealth Wheat Industry Research Council for the five years ending 1971-72 are: 

<graphic href="050232197111036_16_0.jpg"></graphic>

I have been given to understand that the New South Wales Wheat Industry Research Committe has commenced to retrench both its research effort and the staff at the Institute. 
At my request, the Commonwealth Wheat Industry Research Council has appointed a specialist sub-committee to investigate all aspects of the situation at the North West Wheat Research Institute. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Six thousand four hundred and fifty-one. 
Crushers' current expectations of contracting growers for 1971-72 and 1972-73 are about 9,600 and 12,800 respectively. 
 The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Australian Oil Seeds Conference is a meeting which brings together representatives of growers and processors of oil seeds and Commonwealth and State officers who are concerned with the industry for the purpose of exchanging information and discussing matters of general concern to the industry on a factual and technical level and not of a political nature. When the agenda for the Conference held in Canberra on 12th August 1971 was being considered by the Working Committee, a request was made on behalf of margarine manufacturing interests for the inclusion of an item on the subject of margarine quotas. With my approval the  Chairman  of the Working Committee, who is an officer of the Department of Primary Industry, informed the Committee that it was considered inappropriate for this subject to be discussed at the Conference. As State Government policies were involved it was suggested that thematter was one for discussion in industry organisations rather than at a meeting in which Commonwealth and State officers participated and where a Commonwealth department was providing the  Chairman  and the secretariat. The Working Committee accepted this view. I addressed the Conference myself and spent a little time there. There was no criticism from any of the large number of industry representatives present about the attitude taken by my Department, with my support, on this question. 
The 
Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The total production of vegetable oilseeds, in long tons, for each of the last five years, and for each State, was as follows: 

<graphic href="050232197111036_17_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="050232197111036_17_1.jpg"></graphic>

The most recent forecast of production of all vegetable oilseeds for each State for 1971-72 is: 

<graphic href="050232197111036_17_2.jpg"></graphic>

This forecast is very preliminary as some crops such as soya beans have not yet been sown whilst others like sunflower are at present being sown. The actual production level will depend very much on the final sowings achieved and the seasonal conditions prevailing during the growing period. The tentative value of this production forecast - if achieved - could be around $35 million, on the assumption that present domestic and export prices levels are maintained. 
 The Government will not support this amendment because it believes that the motion, if agreed to, would be premature in view of the 2 inquiries presently being conducted. One of the inquiries is into the feasibility of the establishment of a farm loan insurance corporation, and the other, which is being sought by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  through the Bureau of Agricultural Economics, is into the supply of or the demand for credit in rural industries. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be added  (Senator Kane's amendment)  be added. 
I shall deal with the last aspect first, f understand that the document or the brochure to which the honourable senator referred is being printed at the present time and that it will be made available to all registered persons for distribution to their clients. In other words, anyone who handles deficiency payments will be able to send one of these brochures to the people for whom they handle the deficiency payments. The honourable senator raised a point in connection with clause 4(3.). I have given an assurance that wherever possible the deficiency payment will be passed on except in the special cases where there is not so much an outstanding debt but a client has not been playing the game by the broker. Perhaps that is understandable. As the honourable senator knows, there are persons who do these things at times. I turn now to the query which the honourable senator raised in connection with the definition of 'producer'. If the honourable senator looks at that definition he will see that it states that, a person who, for the purposes of that definition, has rights in the nature of an equity of redemption in respect of wool or sheep the subject of a mortgage or other security shall be deemed to be the owner of the wool or sheep. Is that satisfactory,  Senator Wilkinson? 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
The honourable senator referred this matter to me and I promised to obtain some information. Currently there is much uncertainty about the seasonal wheat crop estimates, particularly in New South Wales, because of drought conditions. If early rain eventuated it will alleviate the position. If dry conditions continue then adverse circumstances must prevail; Against that background, the projected production could range from 290 million bushels to as high as 315 million bushels from a planted crop of 17.4 million acres. Deliveries to the Australian Wheat Board could range from 270 million bushels to 290 million bushels. If the honourable senator looks at last year's conditions he will find that 16.3 million acres produced 294 million bushels, of which 254 million bushels were delivered to the Australian Wheat Board. In the previous year  -  1969-70  -  a total of 23.4 million acres were planted producing 387 million bushels, of which 358 million bushels were delivered to the Australian Wheat Board. The yield per acre in the 5 years ended 1970-71 had been 22.4 bushels, 12.4 bushels, 20.3 bushels, 16.5 bushels and 18 bushels respectively. 
The carry over stocks are expected to be between 130 million and 135 million bushels. As the honourable senator will know, the wheat season ends at the end of November. I think I stated previously that the carry over was expected to be 150 million bushels. This level has been exceeded only in 1942, 1969 and 1970. It represents a very substantial carry over level, although its composition is not the most desirable since there is very little prime hard wheat or other types for which the demand is somewhat stronger than for fair average quality wheat. 
 Sir 
William Gunn has been  chairman  of either the Australian Wool Bureau or the Australian Wool Board, as it is now known, for the past 13 years. I believe, from my knowledge, that  Sir William  Gunn has done an excellent job for the industry. 
If the honourable senator wants to answer the question I will sit down. It is true that over the years  Sir William  has created a number of situations and has been in a number of situations in which he has had a lot of opposition, not only from the industry but also from people outside the industry. But if a man is doing his job properly he will always run into criticism. What  Sir William  Gunn does outside his job as  chairman  of the Australian Wool Board is his business. If the industry wants to put him out of that job it is up to the industry to do so through the representatives that it appoints to the Australian Wool Board. 
Yesterday  Senator Cavanagh  asked me the following question: 
At the time of the closing of the Tindal air base in the Northern Territory, was a large amount of shelving and lockers, including new lockers, put through a fire and subsequently bulldozed into a dump and covered with earth? Have inquiries been made about the purchase of some of these lockers? What was the purpose in destroying these articles? 
I have obtained the following information for the honourable senator: 
No new or nearly new shelving and lockers were burnt or buried at Tindal. Certain old shelves and lockers were assessed by authorised officers of the RAAF and the Department of Works as being uneconomical to repair and having no resale value. These were burnt or buried. A further quantity considered to have some resale value was sold at public auction. 

 - Senator Cavanagh also asked me the following question yesterday: 
Is it true that some years ago either one or two machines for the emptying of cement bags were purchased by the Department of Air at a cost of some$1m and housed in a shed built for the purpose at Tindal air base? Is it a fact that such machine or machines have at no time been used and that the Department has no further use for them? Has it been found that at present a purchaser cannot be found for the machine or machines? Finally, what was the reason for the original purchase? 
I have obtained the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The cement de-bagging equipment was purchased early in 1969 at a cost of $83,000 as part of the normal RAAF inventor of equipment for the Airfield Construction Squadron. Construction tasks performed by the RAAF since the debagging equipment was procured have been in areas where supply of bulk cement was an economic proposition and the equipment has not yet been used. Several thousand tons of bag cement was used in the construction of RAAF Tindal airfield and was de-bagged by similar equipment. The RAAF does not always expect bulk cement to be economically available and, therefore, expects to use the equipment on future projects. No attempts have been made to sell or otherwise dispose of the equipment and for convenience it is now stored at Tindal in a hangar that was vacated by No. 3 Airfield Construction Squadron after completion of airfield construction works in the area. 
 Senator Douglas  McClelland, who has just resumed his scat, made a number of charges against the Government, one of which was about a lack of money for the New South Wales rural reconstruction programme. The honourable senator knows as well as I do that the Minister who is in charge of that programme in New South Wales has available to him approximately $18m to spend in the forthcoming year. If he has spent that money, let him say so. But he has not said it. A good deal of what the honourable senator said could be dealt with along similar lines. 
J thank the Senate for its consideration of the Wool (Deficiency Payments) Bill 1971, and particularly those honourable senators who contributed to the debate. We have had a very lengthy debate on this legislation, commencing last night and continuing all this afternoon. Most honourable senators have indicated during their speeches their very deep concern for the present situation within the rural industries. It is true that the rural industries are going through a very trying time. I believe that a good deal of the situation can bc attributed to the prices received by the producers for their goods. This legislation is of the utmost importance to everyone in the Australian community. Not only are 1 million people directly concerned with the production of primary industry, but another 2 million people arc concerned with the prosperity of the rural industries. 
The scheme before the Senate is the result of a decision taken by the Government to supplement market returns on wool for a period of 1 year. The Government has taken this decision to enable the wool industry to make adjustments with the minimum of economic delay and without social disruption. The purpose of the scheme is to ensure that the returns to growers during the 1971-72 season are at least equivalent to 36c per lb over the whole of the clip. The Government proposes to implement the scheme through a wool deficiency payment, the operations of which  Senator Wilkinson  claims the growers will never bc able to understand. I admit that the scheme is pretty involved. I was hoping that this afternoon 1 could take honourable senators through the scheme in a very much more abbreviated form than that contained in the second reading speech. But I have been informed since the honourable senator spoke that the Commonwealth is preparing a simple explanatory brochure so that growers will be able to understand the scheme. Even if the growers were not able to understand the full operation of the scheme, I believe that all they need is a knowledge of the deficiency percentage, which will be publicised widely in the Press. 
I now return to responding to honourable senators who have spoken in the debate. I make the point that the Opposition has moved an amendment to the motion for the second reading of the Bill, which is in 2 parts. The first part suggests that a means test should be imposed. I would have thought that the experience gained last year, when an assistance scheme involving up to $30m was introduced by the Government in the form of wool emergency grants, would have shown what a means lest can do. Honourable senators will recall that in last year's legislation a limit was placed on the amount of grant that each grower could obtain. The limit was $1:500. To avoid giving a grant to wealthy farmers or wealthy producers, as the Opposition likes to call them, the legislation stated that at least half of the applicant's income must be received from wool if he was to obtain the full grant. Smaller grants could be obtained down to 33 1/3 per cent of the income derived from wool. A further limiting factor was then imposed on this grant. It was stated that a grower applying for it must have had a fall in income of at least 8 per cent compared to the previous year's income. 
We ail know the history of that scheme. Many people received assistance. Many people who perhaps did not need assistance received it. But the more alarming situation was that many applicants who were worthy of assistance were not able to obtain it because of the means test imposed by that legislation. I believe that we could run into the same situation again. Surely the larger grower needs assistance more than the smaller grower in certain cases, particularly where the smaller grower is more of a mixed farmer and receives income from beef and other production. In any event, the deficiency payment will be subject to income tax. Those persons with the largest surplus of income over expenses will have to pay the most tax. Surely that is a limiting factor in this situation. 
This assistance is being given to all those who are genuine wool producers. The second part of the amendment refers to the establishment of a single marketing authority to acquire, appraise and market the entire clip. This is something with which I agree personally. In my first speech in the Senate in 1958 I suggested the same thing because I came from Western Australia as the former president of the wool section. This had been the policy of the wool section in Western Australia for as long as 1 can remember. This policy goes to the Australian Wool and Meat Producers Federation where it becomes the policy of that body. But the other side of the federal body has not expressed its policy in regard to the acquisition of the clip as a whole. 
Admittedly many people in New South Wales and Victoria who are associated with the Graziers Association would like acquisition. But the whole point is that this is a short term measure.  Senator Wilkinson  talks about the establishment of a single selling authority which surely is a long term measure. The Government hopes that the growers will look at this matter. If they wish to have an acquisition scheme, we hope that they will come to the Government and tell it that this is the sort of marketing operation that they wish to be implemented. The only other point that I make in regard to this legislation is that it could well be, that if no international currency crisis existed today the price of wool would be approximately 36c a lb and the industry probably would be over some of its problems. For those reasons, the Government rejects the amendment moved by  Senator Wilkinson  on behalf of the Australian Labor Party. 

 Senator Wilkinson then referred to clause 4. 1 believe that this is a most important clause and one that takes a good deal of understanding. Nearly every honourable senator who has spoken in this debate has referred to clause 4. I have been informed that the holder of a lien over wool or of a mortgage over sheep is not the producer within the meaning of the definition. It is true that under the State laws relating to mortgages and liens a mortgagee or a holder of a lien owns the wool immediately after it is shorn and so comes within the meaning of paragraph (a) of clause 4(1.). Referring to paragraph (c) of this clause, we see that the definition in the words following this paragraph provides that a person having equity of redemption is deemed to be the owner of the wool or sheep and this person is the farmer who has given the lien. Although as has been said the holder of a lien or a mortgagee is not the producer, he may have the right to receive a deficiency payment in accordance with the provisions of clause 9 of the Bill. 
The purpose of the scheme is to ensure that the returns to growers during the 1971-72 season are equal to at least 36c a lb over the whole clip by supplementing the market price. In doing that, the deficiency payment should thus be regarded as an integral part of the proceeds from the wool. I say this because the wool deficiency payment scheme has as its whole purpose the payment to growers of price support through recognised traders, namely the brokers and others registered for this purpose. Any other way of operating the scheme would cost more and the scheme would become unwieldy. This scheme is based on the average price obtained at auction. The statistical information that is used in operating the scheme is available to the Australian Wool Commission and is based on the auction system. 
Clause 9 of the Bill safeguards the rights of secured creditors by directing that the deficiency payment moneys shall be treated in the same manner as the sale proceeds of the wool. I have just dealt with that matter. If the Bill provided that the deficiency payment was to go to the grower, a problem would be associated with the establishment of the rights of creditors. It is considered that the persons with the security over the wool could expect that the security would extend to all moneys derived from the wool. This expectation would be unfounded and they would be placed in the same position as unsecured creditors with no preferred position. This would cause a loss of confidence on the part of traditional lenders to the industry. The function of the scheme is dependent particularly on the co-operation of the brokers who service the industry. Without this assistance the scheme could not function in its present form. The brokers are not being reimbursed for the increased administrative costs involved in making the deficiency payments. Accordingly, the scheme is designed to keep these costs to a minimum. The making of the deficiency payments separately from the sale proceeds would involve substantial additional costs as well as delay in getting the money into the hands of the people. 
I have had a further look at this matter. I have considered also some of the other schemes. The Acts relating to the cotton bounty and the dairy industry bounty provide that the bounty shall be paid by the gin or by the dairy factory to the producer. A producer could assign his right to the bounty as security for a loan. Looking at the Acts relating to the apple and pear stabilisation scheme and the dried vine fruits stabilisation scheme we see that they provide that money may be retained by an exporter or a packing house only where the producer has authorised such retention. The provision of a different nature was included in the Wool (Deficiency Payments) Bill because wool subject to security had already been delivered to the brokers and sold before the introduction of the legislation and thus before the Act will become operative. The position of producers where there was a security over the wool needed to be clarified so that each party would be aware of his rights. 
With respect to wool delivered before the Bill becomes law, it would not have become possible for brokers to ensure that their security extended to the deficiency payments. As the deficiency payment is intended as an increase in the price of wool, it was considered that the holders of the existing securities were normally entitled to have the payments on wool sold after 2nd July included in the scope of their security. With respect to wool delivered after the Bill becomes law, brokers in any case could retain the money when authorised to do so by a producer. This happens with respect to payments under the dried vine fruits stabilisation scheme. 
I recognised that many honourable senators on both sides had a problem concerning this provision, so I spoke to the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  about the Senate's problem and the concern of honourable senators regarding clause 9. The Minister informed me that it was his wish that the brokers and private buyers acting as agents of the Commonwealth should pass the proceeds of the deficiency payments to the wool growers. Before this debate resumed in the Senate, as honourable senators know, the Minister proceeded overseas. Last night I approached the Acting Minister for Primary Industry, the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon).  I again expressed on behalf of some honourable senators their concern about this matter. The Acting Minister then contacted the  President  of the National Council of Wool Selling Brokers,  Mr Anderson,  and told him of the concern of honourable senators in this matter. He asked him if he would give an assurance that the brokers would pass that part of the proceeds from the support price plan, or the deficiency payment, on to the growers.  Mr Anderson  said that naturally he could not contact some 20 members of the Council at that time but that he believed he could give an assurance that where there was a lien on the wool clip all such cases would be dealt with sympathetically by the wool brokers. With the exception of some very bad clients,  Mr Anderson  was prepared to assure  Mr Nixon  that at least the equivalent of the deficiency payment would be passed back to the growers for carry-on expenses. By mentioning those 2 cases of assurance by the Minister and the Acting Minister I hope I relieve some of the concern expressed here by honourable senators. 
I shall refer briefly to a matter mentioned by  Senator Little.  He was kind enough to give me a look at the amendment he proposes to move later. All I can say to him is that the Government is aware of the situation in regard to rural credit. I am sure honourable senators are aware that the Government has been investigating the feasibility of establishing a farm loans insurance corporation. It is hoped that a report on this matter will be available shortly. In view of the complexity of the whole field of rural credit the Minister for Primary Industry has asked the Bureau of Agricultural Economics for a thorough review of the supply of and demand for credit in rural industries and possible methods of meeting the situation. Pending receipt of these reports the Government would regard the proposed amendment as being premature. If carried it would affect the future of rural industries for many years ahead without real knowledge of what is needed. I hope  Senator Little  can see his way clear to recognise the problem before the Government. 
I inform  Senator Jessop  that during the period when the deficiency payments scheme was being formulated approaches were made by representatives of the skin buyers, skin exporters and fellmongers suggesting that, if the scheme was not extended to sheepskins, growers would shear sheep before the sheep were slaughtered. This is recognised. As  Senator Jessop  mentioned, the Minister said in his second reading speech that he would watch the situation carefully. Some comment on this matter by  Mr F.  J. Walker appeared in the SydneyDaily Telegraph on 30th October. He referred to the same sort of approach as that suggested bythe honourable senator in his contribution to the debate. I asked for some information about this and it seems that the major reason for the decline in fellmongering activity is the reduced price for wool, scoured wool and sheep skins. Pelts without wool or with wool of short staple are not economic to process and increasing numbers are reported to be dumped. So at the present time it is a matter of economics. I assure  Senator Jessop  that his concern will be brought to the notice of the Minister. As the Minister said, he will watch the situation carefully. 

 Senator Sim expressed some concern about private sellers. All I want to say is that there will not necessarily be discrimination against wool grower who sells privately to a private buyer who is not undercutting the market.  Senator Sim  indicated how in a particular case the private buyer is not undercutting the market. The private buyer should be able to pay the grower an amount which together with the deficiency payment would result in the grower receiving the same net amount as if he had sold at auction. I have some figures which bear this out but, as  Senator Sim  said, figures can tell all sorts of stories. I believe from the inquiries I have made since honourable senators expressed concern to me about this matter that the grower who sells his wool to a private buyer who is not undercutting the auction system will benefit the same as will the producer who sells his wool on the auction system. 

 Senator Cant referred to rural reconstruction. The Government never mentioned the period of grant and never said how much was available. I have in my hand the States Grants (Rural Reconstruction) Act 1971. The time period is mentioned in that Act. The grant will end in 1975. The Act stipulates that$100m will be available over that period and it indicates how much each State will receive.  Senator Cant's  remarks were not fair. 

 Mr President, 1 support this Bill. The Government believes it will assist the wool producers of Australia this year. It will enable the leaders of the industry to think deeply about the future of the wool industry and what action they suggest the Government should take to overcome some of the many problems that are looming in front of them at present. The amendment moved by the spokesman for the Labor Party will not overcome the problem. In the long term some parts of the amendment could go a long way towards solving the problem but at this particular time I do not think it would suit the position. The Government rejects the amendment. I ask that the motion for the second reading be now put. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be added  (Senator Wilkinson's amendment)  be added. 
I believe that what the honourable senator says is correct: This is a very contagious and dreadful disease and over the years Australia has had some very stringent laws against the importation of cattle. I canot detail those laws at the present time but I will look into the matter and give the honourable senator an answer. 
I understand that only recently the United States Government reallocated about 44 million lb of shortfalls in its imports of meat. This is according to practice. Under United States legislation the United States Government can penalise countries which fall short by redistributing their quotas. However, I point out to the honourable senator that Australia was at the peak of its meat exports to America when the dock strike took place there. That was why Australia was unable to reach its quota.I understand that under the United States agreement there is no reason to suspect that a shortfall in a particular year would be used against a country concerned when arrangements for the following year were being determined. 
I have seen certain material on the points that the honourable senator raises but I would have to consult the Minister for Supply on the suggestion that the honourable senator puts to me. I shall do this and let  Senator Willesee  have a reply. 
The honourable senator has covered a tremendous amount of ground in that question. I would like to look at it before I reply to it. 
1 have not seen  Mr Anthony's  statement in full. I shall read it and I shall convey the honourable senator's point of view to  Mr Anthony.  If he has any comments, he will direct them, through me, to the honourable senator. 
The 
Government has been very conscious of the increase in freights, not only in the fruit industry but also in all other export industries. Recently a committee from the Australian Apple and Pear Board went to London to try to renegotiate a lower freight rate than that asked by the shipping companies. I understand that it has returned and that at a special meeting of the Board - last Friday, 1 think - it presented its report to the Board. The proposals are not very much different from those originally sought by the shippers. 1 am aware also that the West Australian growers have 3 propositions before the Australian Apple and Pear Board at the present time and that they hope the Board will see its way clear to granting one of those propositions. The Minister for Primary Industry has kept in close contact with the Board, and the Board has kept in close contact with the Minister, on this matter and negotiations are still going on in an endeavour to reach a satisfactory conclusion. 
I saw the latter statement to which the honourable senator refers. Surely the honourable senator does not want me as the representative in this place of the Minister to comment on policy at this moment. I suggest that the honourable senator put the question on notice. 
Only recently in answer to a question asked by the honourable senator I said that 1 hoped that the Royal Australian Air Force would release its specifications for a replacement for the Mirage aircraft. The Air Force did so the other day. The present indications are that the Mirage aircraft will be progressively reaching the end of its fatigue life towards the end of the 1970s. The matter of a replacement for this aircraft has been under consideration by my Department for some time. I want to make the position clear. The honourable senator will appreciate that the selection of a major item of equipment such as an aircraft takes a considerable amount of time. The evaluation of various types of aircraft which are available has to be made in great depth. Invariably further information from and discussion with the manufacturers is necessary. Not the least important aspect to be taken into consideration in these evaluations is the question of local manufacture. 
It is the normal practice in the case of major aircraft equipment proposals to issue Air Force staff requirements. That we have done. These requirements have been issued to manufacturers who may be able to supply the desired equipment. The issuing of Air Force staff requirements and a subsequent evaluation does not, of course, in any way commit the Government. However, should the approval of the Government for the procurement of the equipment be obtained the prior evaluation will have reduced the period between the time of the approval and the date of the placement of the order and will have provided essential information on which the Government's decision must be based. The honourable senator will be aware also that a number of years may elapse after the placement of an order before the first aircraft is delivered. It is for the reasons that I have mentioned that approval was given last Friday for the release of the Air Force staff requirements for a replacement for the Mirage aircraft. This action was in accordance with the normal procedure and there is no intention to pre-empt or in any way commit the Government. 
-] should think that that would require a detailed examination of the Repatriation Department's files. 1 will ask for that to be done and supply to the honourable senator the information that is obtained as a result of that examination. 
-I do not know what the honourable senator is trying to make out of the stockpile of wool. The stockpile of wool at present is no higher than it has been in years past. The point is that the industry itself holds the stockpile at present, instead of the speculators and manufacturers having the wool in the pipeline. 
Yes, at give away prices. I suggest that the honourable senator puts the remainder of his question on notice. 
The Minister for the Navy has provided the following answers to the honourable senator's questions: 
Three Destroyers (DD) 
Three Guided Missile Destroyers (DDG) 
Six Destroyer Escorts (DE) 
There are also 2 destroyers near the end of their useful lives operating in the training role. 
The effective life of the ships as in (1) above is between 20 and 25 years. 
Ships would phase out as follows: 
Destroyers - early 80's 
Guided Missile Destroyers - mid to late 80's 
Destroyer Escorts - mid 80's to early 90's 
It is planned to introduce new Destroyers from about 1979 but a decision on whether such ships will be acquired has not yet been made by the Government. 
Yesterday the honourable senator asked me a question - in fact he has asked me a few questions - about the Australian Wool Commission. One part of his question yesterday dealt with the amount that the Commission has borrowed from banks and the interest rates charged. Yesterday I said that I would seek from the Minister for Primary Industry information about that matter. I have not the answer at this stage, but I make one point: The honourable senator spoke of the Commission having 700,000 bales of wool. I do not know from where he got that figure. Any figure other than that given by the Commission can be only an educated guess. The last figure given by the Commission, on 2nd August this year, was that 339,000 bales had been bought in by the Commission up to that time, and that it had on hand another 120,000 bales of price-averaging-plan wool which would be transferred into the No. 3 and No. 4 pools. Those are the official figures at present. Any other figures are pure supposition on the part of various people. 
I understand that the State authorities have suggested that some primary producers have walked off their properties, but no State authority has been able to supply official figures to show how many have in fact walked off their properties.. There is evidence that a number of farmers and graziers have taken up outside jobs with the intention of earning money so that when conditions in their industry improve they will be able to go back to their holdings and take up where they left off. In regard to the final part of the honourable senator's question I remind him that the agreement with the States made under the States Grants (Rural Reconstruction) Act sets out the purpose of farm build-up as being: 
To supplement, without discouraging, the normal processes under which properties which are too small to be economic are amalgamated wilh an adjoining holding or are subdivided anil the subdivided portions are added to adjoining holdings, or to assist a farmer wilh a property too small to bc economic to purchase additional land to build up his property to at least economic size. 
That is the whole purpose of the rural reconstruction scheme which we have to keep in mind. However, as to the first part of the question, I know of no official figures which would give any indication of of how many people have walked off their properties. 
There has been great concern in the wine industry over a number of factors. One matter which has been bandied about quite commonly is the Government's policy with regard to excise on table wines. I think it would be fair to say that the Government realises that there has been an impact on the industry through the imposition of the excise, but an examination of the situation by the Government reveals a number of other factors which also should be taker into consideration. The position of the wine industry has been concerning the Australian Agricultural Council. At its last meeting, the Council set up a committee known as the Commonwealth Grape Advisory Committee. I understand that this Committee will be investigating mat ters when it meets in December and will present a report on the situation to the next Council meeting. The major topic to be discussed at the next Australian Agricultural Council meeting in relation to wine will be the 1972 crop. This is what concerns the honourable senator. I understand that the statistics for 1970-71 show that the level of sales of wholesale wines is not very much different from that of 1969- 70. There are no official figures available for sales of wine in the type of container to which the honourable senator referred. I can also tell the honourable senator that the Department of Customs and Excise has figures which show that the sales of wine for 1971-72 are picking up. 
-BROCKM AN -I think that towards the end of October last  Senator Little  asked me a similar question, among a series of questions that he put to me. I asked him to put the question on notice. I have not obtained a reply from the Minister for Supply. As soon as I do,  1  will let  Senator Brown  have a copy of it. 
I understand that the incident to which the honourable senator has referred happened in 1964. I therefore ask the honourable senator to place his question on the notice paper and ( will obtain the information he seeks. 
1 have seen the newspaper report of what  Mr Vines  said. 1 have not read his speech in full. 1 should think that the honourable senator would realise that the Government is doing something to meet the situation in the rural industries. Firstly, it has provided a $ 10Om loan to the States for reconstruction purposes. Also a feasibility study is being carried out at present by the Department of Primary Industry into the possibility of establishing a farm loans insurance corporation. Further, the Minister for Primary Industry has asked the Bureau of Agricultural Economics to do a study into the supply of or the demand for credit in the rural industries. When these 2 reports come to hand the Government will have a much better idea of the situation obtaining in the rural industries at present. 
When 1 saw these reports I sought some information on the matter. I have been informed that the reports mentioned by the honourable senator are grossly misleading. The correct situation is that when the Commission withdrew its support from low grade wools at the start of the current selling season the price of these wools dropped very substantially. This is what I have been saying in the Senate. I have said that the price had dropped by from 12 per cent to 34 per cent. Despite the recent increase in the prices for these wools they have not yet recovered to the levels which ruled at the close of last selling season when they were protected by the Commission. The claim that the Commission has been trying to hide the recent improvements in the price of low grade wools is completely untrue. The Commission has published the closing price quotations for last week, and these show an improvement of 4c a kilogram cleaned for merino carding wools compared with the close of the preceding week. In the price quotations for the 2 weeks prior to this, rises of 3c and 2c a kilogram respectively are shown. The joint wool selling organisation which represents selling brokers, wool buyers and wool growers, and which co-operates with the Commission in issuing market reports, highlighted in its report of last week the strong demand for carding wools and the marked improvement in the price for these wool1:. I think thai the continual questioning of me by the honourable senator in an attempt to place the Commission in a bad light is doing a lot of harm to the wool industry, and this highlights the Labor Party policy in regard to the Commission. 
I will bring to the attention of the Minister for the Navy the points made by the honourable senator and obtain some information for him. But I point out to him that the Navy, as well as the Air Force, has patrols right around Australia, and they are continually on the watch for shipping. If a ship is seen acting in a suspicious manner or if a patrol sees a ship that it does not recognise, it immediately reports that ship to whoever is in charge of that particular area, and investigations are then made into the matter. I do not want the honourable senator to be under the impression that Tasmania and the waters around it are not under patrol, because they are. I will take the action that I have said I will take. 
I do not recall the incident to which the honourable senator is referring. I know that 8,000 bales of wool have been or are being sent overseas by the Australian Wool Commission. I do not know whether they are the 8,000 bales to which the honourable senator is referring. I shall seek information and give him an answer tomorrow. 
The answer is no. 
We are dealing with a very serious matter and therefore I shall ignore the last part of the honourable senator's question. I point out to the honourable senator that the sum he refers to is $30m, not $300m. The principal aim of the Australian Wool Commission is to use its reserve price scheme to protect woolgrowers. The Government has considered this matter in full and has decided, as announced by the Acting Minister for Primary Industry, that a further $30m will be provided, if necessary, to enable the Commission to continue its present reserve price policies.  Mr Nixon  then went on to say that it was very disappointing that tho Commission had had to continue purchases in order to hold its reserve price but that the Government had reaffirmed its belief that this was the best course in the present circumstances of the wool industry. This decision was made after seeking information overseas through the International Wool Secretariat as well as from the Australian Wool Board. It was not made on the hearsay that has been read in the Press. 
-I am not sure whether I understand all of the honourable senator's question. A statement has been made by the Acting Minister for Primary Industry setting out the deficiency payments from the beginning of the season on 2nd July. I do not know whether the suggested 21 per cent less than the average of 36c per lb is correct but I point out to the honourable senator that the figure of 36c per lb is the average price of greasy wool over the whole of the clip for the 12 months. Therefore some of the deficiency payments for a particular sale could relate to a price less or, on the other hand, more than the average of 36c. I wouldlike to have a look at the remainder of the question, and if I can give the honourable senator any further information I shall do so. 
I think it would be fair to say that low grade wools have been of great concern to the Australian Wool Commission and the wool industry generally because of the quality and quantity of wools of this grade being put on the market and the price being obtained. Last year the lower grade wools came under the protection of the Wool Commission, but since the beginning of this wool selling season they have not received that protection, with the result that early in the season there was a substantial fall in the price received for wools of this type. In recent times there has been some uplift in price, but it has not equated that which was obtained at the end of the last wool selling season. In view of this I shall place the honourable senator's suggestion before the Minister for Primary Industry with a view to his examining the situation and, if I have additional information which I can pass on to the honourable senator, I shall do that. 
I have seen a report relating to the return from the People's Republic of China of a delegation from the Australian Wheat Board.I read that the delegation attended the Canton Fair at the invitation of the Cereals Corporation. I have read very closely a statement made by the  Chairman  of the Australian Wheat Board. Substantially it was in line with what the honourable senator said. I point out to the honourable senator that the Government and particularly the Minister for Primary Industry have contended all along that the delay in sales of wheat to China is probably due to commercial factors. There is evidence of a large grain crop in China and of a satisfactory position in stocks of cereals in that country. 
I am dealing with China at the moment. There is another factor also which makes the Chinese position a lot more satisfactory.I refer to the fact that there are reduced exports of rice. Those exports in the past have been used as a major source of foreign exchange. This is the situation that the Australian Wheat Board delegation found when it was there. The Board has made record sales this year. The carry-over from 30th November will be in the vicinity of 132 million bushels, which is one of the smallest carry-overs that the Board has had for some time. In view of the crop coming in. wheat growers would like to see sales made to China very shortly. I am not going to say anything today that could upset the conditions prevailing at present. This is a job for the Australian Wheat Board and I hope it has success. I point out that since the time of the last sale - that was in December 1969 for delivery of wheat in 1970 - there have been constant communications with the Corporation and those communications have been on a very friendly basis at all times. 
I well understand the situation to which the honourable senator refers. I am very sympathetic to the growers' problems, especially in the present situation of over production of canned fruits. However, I point out to the honourable senator that it has been the policy of the Government developed over a long period that where problems of such a nature affect a State the remedy is a matter for the State. Only recently the Commonwealth, on a $1 for$1 basis with the State governments, made money available both in New South Wales and South Australia. In regard to the problem at Griffith, at the present time a sum of $200,000 is being mentioned. This is a matter which the Commonwealth believes is well within the capabilities of the State Government to attend to. I can point out to the honourable senator that a committee comprising representatives of the Commonwealth, the States and the industry itself is presently investigating the long terms problems of the industry. I understand that this committee has been set up by the Australian Agricultural Council and will be reporting to the Agricultural Council. I shall convey the honourable senator's question to the Minister and if there is anything further to add I shall ask the Minister to do so. 
The Acting Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Lesions of sheep measles are not identified as such by United States import inspectors in the records of their inspections. Details of the quantities of Australian mutton rejected for this cause are therefore unavailable. However, the following tabic compiled from departmental records gives approximate figures for the rejection by United State inspectors of mutton in which pathological lesions of all kinds have been found, compared with total imports of mutton from Australia. 

<graphic href="050232197111235_23_1.jpg"></graphic>

No information is available on the disposal of rejected meat or on the price at which it was sold. 
The Minister for the Navy has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Whenever a Commanding Officer has occasion to render a report on one of his officers or sailors it is normal practice for him to seek the opinion of those officers and senior sailors for whom the person being reported upon works. This practice will normally be followed in considering nominations for Peter Mitchell Prizemen. 
The Acting Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable Senator's question: 
The commercial butter equivalent of butter, butteroil and ghee produced in Australia in 1970- 71 was 199,881 tons. 
and (3) Sales of butter to markets outside the United Kingdom are made on a trader to trader basis and there are no reliable records of the extent to which overseas orders and enquiries made either direct to private firms or throughthe Australian Dairy Produce Board were filled. 
Trader to trader exports were curtailed in the last quarter of 1970-71 because of the need to ensure that adequate supplies were available for the domestic market. 
Butter shipments to the United Kingdom are made by the Board on a consignment basis and not against orders. Australia supplied 56,443 tons of butterto the United Kingdom against its import quota entitlement of 67,600 tons for the year ended 31st March 1971. All milk sales to overseas countries are made by private traders and as in the case of butter there is no reliable record of orders received and how they were processed. 
According to the Commonwealth Statistician imports of milk powder including dried buttermilk, skimmed milk and whey in 1970-71 were as set out in the following table. The average unit values of imports from the respective countries are also shown. 

<graphic href="050232197111235_26_0.jpg"></graphic>

According to the Commonwealth Statistician imports of cheese in 1970-71 were as set out in the. following table. The average unit values of imports from the respective countries are also shown. 

<graphic href="050232197111235_26_1.jpg"></graphic>

The Minister for the Army has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
In general, the Army uses private contractors in cases where the repair work involved cannot be handled, firstly in its own workshops, or secondly by, making use of any spare capacity in other Commonwealth Department Workshops. 
I should like to make it clear that the fullest co-operation exists between officers of my Department and the Commonwealth Department of Works (CDW) in Townsville. In fact, a Resident Trade Repair Supervisor on the staff of the Department of the Army Workshop at Townsville is located at the CDW workshop for purposes of liaison, inspection and acceptance of completed jobs, and determination of the parts to be supplied by the Army. 
Clearly the Army Supervisor is aware, on a day to day basis, of the capacity of CDW to undertake Army repair tasks. Similarly, CDW is aware of the volume of repair work to be done for the Army. In this situation it will be apparent that the capacity available within CDW is taken fully into account by the Department of the Army before work is let out to private contractors and that CDW is aware of the nature and extent of the Army's repair commitment. 
The Minister for the Army has forwarded to  Senator Keeffe  a detailed schedule of the expenditure and nature of work undertaken on vehicle trade repair in Townsville for the period from 15th October 1970 to 15th October 1971. 
I will have to obtain the details because, as the honourable senator will understand, 'service' does not mean for one day or one week. Under the Repatriation Act a certain time is required for a person to be eligible, first of all- 
No; I would much rather seek the information. 
I understand that the federal bodies of the wool industry are meeting this week in Sydney where this matter will be discussed, and that the Australian Wool Industry Conference will be meeting later in the week. No doubt this matter will be discussed there loo.If representations are made by the Australian Wool Industry Conference to the Government along these lines the Government will give every consideration to the views expressed by that federal body. 
I shall have to make some inquiries and obtain the information for the honourable senator. 
Pursuant to section 8 of the Fishing Industry Act 1956, I present the fifteenth annual report on the operation of the Act during the year ended 30th June 1971. 
Pursuant to section 19 of the Fishing Industry Research Act 1969, I present the second annual report on the operation of the Act during the year ended 30th June 1971. 
-Pursuant to section 84 of the Wool Industry Act 1962-1970, I present the annual report of the Australian Wool Board for the year ended 30th June 1971, together with financial statements and the Auditor-General's report on those statements. An interim report of the Board was presented to the Senate on 6th October 1971. 
 Mr 

 President, you would be one of the first to agree that animal husbandry can be a rewarding way of life and yet a discouraging way of life because of many factors, not the least of which are finance and climatic conditions, which tend to make stock management rather difficult. 1 am disappointed indeed to hear that the unions should see fit on this occasion, particularly when primary industries are going through a period of such low returns for their produce, when some farmers band together to do each other's shearing - 
There is a continual flow of aircraft manufacturers' representatives who come to Australia to discuss with the Department of Air the requirements of the Royal Australian Air Force. In each case the RAAF carries out an evaluation of the manufacturers' aircraft. It is true that towards the end of the 1970s or later the Macchi jet trainer will have to be replaced. Knowing this, many of the manufacturers' representatives make continuous representations to the Department of Air. In due course an air force staff requirement will be issued in the same way as one was issued the other day for the Mirage replacement. Until that time arrives no final discussion can take place. 
As the honourable senator indicated, the Commonwealth Government still has a financial responsibility to some of the States under the Commonwealth war service land settlement scheme. He will recall that at the beginning of the scheme Queensland, New South Wales and Victoria supplied the capital and the Commonwealth shared the losses with those States. There was a different set-up in Western Australia, South Australia and Tasmania under which the Commonwealth supplied the capital and the States shared some of the losses. Because of our responsibilities under this scheme money is made available each year. Last year, according to the records I have here, $3,360,000 was made available and $2,973,000 was spent. The balance of the money allocated was not spent. The honourable senator asked what is to be spent in the coming year. The figureI have is $3,483,000. 
I do not have any embarrassment in answering a question on repatriation in a general manner. But the honourable senator is asking me for details of repatriation benefits applying to a special area where the limiting factor to the entitlement is the period of service. 
No, I am not going to. I am not embarrassed about answering this question. If a serviceman serves in a special area for more than the specified period he is entitled lo a full repatriation benefits.  Senator Murphy  asked me a question and I said that T would get the information for him. I will do so because I believe that this can be a tricky question in regard - 
As I was saying, this can be a tricky question in regard to how long a member has served. Every time  Senator Georges  asks a question he tries to embarrass someone. He does not seek information as he should do. 
The honourable senator has asked me a question in my capacity as Minister representing the Minister for the Army. I shall seek the information for  Senator Murphy  and I shall see that  Senator Georges  receives a copy of it. 
There is to he a replacement for our C130A aircraft in the next 5 years or perhaps even less. A study is being conducted at the present time by my Department and the Department of Defence as to whether the aircraft about which the honourable senator speaks would be a suitable replacement, bearing in mind that it could be used as a transport tanker aircraft. This study is still continuing. It will continue for .some time. The honourable senator asked what happened to cause the order to be abandoned. The order has not been abandoned; there was no order. Until I see a report of the examination being carried out by the 2 departments I cannot add anything further. 
I think that the question which the honourable senator asked shows that he does not understand the situation. 
I do not know. Recently he quoted to me a report by  Sir Norman  Giles. He quoted only the portion that suited his point of view. He did not quote what  Sir Norman  said about those who criticise the Australian Wool Commission and how they base their criticism on uninformed premises.  Sir Norman  Giles is a member of the Wool Production Research Advisory Committee. 
I would rather hold the honourable senator in suspense. The Government has made its decision, having been furnished with information from the International Wool Secretariat, from the Australian Wool Board and from the Bureau of Agricultural Economics. Surely that advice is more substantial than the advice that  Senator Poke  is trying to give the Senate at present. 
I recall giving the honourable senator that information and I think at the time I said that this was a matter which had to be discussed between the Commonwealth Government and the State governments, with the emphasis on the State governments. However, I am not aware of the continued situation of which the honourable senator speaks. I shall make some inquiries of the Minister for Primary Industry and when I have some information I shall convey it to the honourable senator. 
Since being asked the 2 previous questions- 
No. [ have found in my files an answer to a question on notice asked by  Senator Cavanagh  some time ago in which the Minister for Repatriation states: 
Both discharged national servicemen and members of the Regular Army are eligible for repatriation benefits under the same conditions, provided they served on special service in  a  special area as defined by the Repatriation (Special Overseas Service) Act. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
See answer to 3 and 4. 
RAAF VIP Jet Aircraft departed Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport during the hours of 11 p.m. and 6 a.m. during the period 1st January 1971 to 3rd November 1971 as follows: 

<graphic href="050232197111246_17_1.jpg"></graphic>

Yesterday  Senator Kane  asked me the following question: 1 ask the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry why 8,000 bales of wool were offered for sale by tender in the week ending 12th November L97 1 . Why were they nol offered for sale by public auction? Why were not th:se offerings guaranteed by the Australian Wool Commission as to type and micron? What quantity was sold and by whom?  1 gave him some information and promised him that I would get more details. I  now  inform him that the Australian Wool Commission offered S.600 bales of wool for sale by tender in Brisbane during the wed ended 12 th November. The wool auction sale scheduled for Brisbane in that week had been cancelled as a result of industrial unrest. At the request of woolbuyers, the Commission therefore decided to offer some of its Brisbane wool out of stock to assist buyers who were short in their buying orders of particular types as a result of the cancellation of the Brisbane auction sale. All the wools offered were guaranteed as to type and micron. Only about 1,200 bales of wool were sold in this instance but it should be borne in mind that some of it may have filled orders that otherwise  could  have gone to competitive fibres. 
If I could answer that question there would not be a problem in the wool industry at the present time. 1 shall refer the honourable senator's suggestion to the Minister for Primary Industry. 
I was not aware that I had not realised that very grave problems face the wool industry. I think all members of this chamber are aware of the position. The Government made an annoucement that, for this year only, it would make a deficiency payment to wool growers. It said that this would enable the industry to have a look at its problems and at the same time allow the Government to delve further into the information and to continue the examination that it has been carring but. The committee mentioned by the honourable senator only takes further the policy of the Government. A former senior public servant has been put at the head of a committee. The other members of the committee will be 2 representatives of the Department of Primary Industry and the Department of Trade and Industry' and an official of the Prime Minister's Department. They will examine thoroughly and discuss with representatives of the wool industry and the community as a whole the problems of the wool industry, and then put a report before the Government. 
I am a firm believer in the idea that, where a person works in and earns his livelihood from a particular section of industry and there is an organisation working for the welfare and benefit of those in that section of industry, thai person should be a member of that organisation. But it is abhorrent to me that, if a person because of conscience or some other reason does not want to join that organisation or union, he should be compelled to do so. I find it scandalous that, on an island like Kangaroo Island where there are people with small holdings whose income from rural commodities has diminished considerably and whose sons find that they have to go out and take jobs with neighbours to supplement that income, the unions should see fit to black ban their produce. That is scandalous, and I hope that it will not extend throughout the Australian mainland. In regard to the matter of speaking to the leaders of the union, I hope that common sense will carry the day with them. 
 I remind the honourable senator that an excise charge of 50c per gallon on domestic wine was imposed by the 1970 Budget. The industry has claimed that not only has the excise halted the strongly rising trend in wine sales but that it has reversed that trend, as the honourable senator pointed out in his question. The Prime Minister established an inter-departmental committee composed of representatives from the Prime Minister's Department, the Treasury, the Department of Customs and 
Excise and the Department of Primary Industry to examine the situation in the wine industry with particular reference to the effects of excise. The committee reported that comparative statistics were not complete but that there appeared to be a sales drop in some sectors of the industry. The causes seem to lie, in the main, in marketing problems and it could not be said that the excise was, as represented by the industry, solely or even largely the reason for the drop. Perhaps the worst affected sector is that of the co-operative wine makers in the River Murray region of South Australia, in respect of which the honourable senator has made representations. Their production of bulk wine has lost the traditional outlets to other wine makers and to the United Kingdom market where there has been a very severe drop in sales of bulk fortified wines. That is all the information I have. However, I will refer to the Minister for Primary Industry the points made by the honourable senator. If further information is made available to me about them I will convey it to the honourable senator. 
The 
Minister for the Navy has provided the following answers to the honourable senator's questions: 
Bands of the RAN are provided primarily to meet the ceremonial and training requirements of the Royal Australian. Navy ashore and afloat. As a secondary role and when service commitments permit, Bands are able to undertake other engagements. 
Because of the high standard of musicianship maintained, RAN Bands are in constant demand to support a wide variety of non-service functions throughout Australia The numbers of requests received are such that if they were all to be accepted, the prime role of meeting ceremonial and training commitments of the Fleet and HMA establishments would inevitably suffer. It is frequently not appreciated that to meet the requests for Bands to support non-service functions, it is sometimes necessary for the Bands to travel considerable distances and be accommodated overnight locally. The cost for travel and accommodation for 30 men with their instruments is quite considerable and is a charge against Naval funds. While there is a certain element of Public Relations benefit and goodwill to be gained through participation in such events, it cannot be said that participation in such non-service activities is essential, or that they should receive priority in allocation of Naval funds for expenditure. As the honourable senator will be well aware economies have become necessary in all government departments this year and since March, funds available for travel and accommodation have been significantly reduced. Only essential travel has been authorised. In these circumstances the nonservice commitments which can be accepted by the shore based bands of the RAN have been restricted to the local areas around Sydney and Melbourne which will not involve the use of nonservice accommodation overnight. 
Two exceptions to this general ruling occurred earlier in 1971. To avoid a late cancellation and to enable the band from HMAS Cerberus to attend a festival at Bright, the township of Bright provided overnight accommodation. Recently to meet a commitment in Portland, it became necessary for the Band to travel by coach and be accommodated locally, after arrangements to travel and live in. HMAS Vendetta fell through when the ship was required for operational duties in connection with the Rabaul earthquake. 
Details of public occasions and functions at which the shore based Bands have performed are listed below: 

<graphic href="050232197111250_14_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="050232197111250_15_0.jpg"></graphic>

Engagements for public performances accepted for the 6 months commencing 1.10.71 are as follows: 

<graphic href="050232197111250_15_1.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="050232197111250_16_0.jpg"></graphic>

The Minister for Supply has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Vampire aircraft were advertised in Australia, United Kingdom and United States of America for sale by public tender. 
Forty two (42) Avon Sabre fighter aircraft arc still listed on the Royal Australian Air Force aircraft register. 
No aircraft have yet been declared to my 
Department for disposal. 
The Minister for Supply has providedthe following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Although the Woomera and Salisbury establishments operated as integrated parts ofthe Long Range Weapons Establishment when the Long Range Weapons Project commenced in 1947, the  interests  at Salisbury have gradually broadened overthe years. Following re-negotiation of the UK/ Australia Joint Project agreement in 1968 only a small proportion of the Salisbury workload is related to the support of the Woomera trials; the major workload of the Salisbury establishment is now in support of the Australian Defence needs.It is  thus  necessary to considerthe Salisbury and Woomera establishments separately in answering the honourable senator's questions. 
While  the  launches carried out on behalf of European Launcher Development Organisation European Space Research Organisation and National Aeronauticsand Space Administration represented a significant contribution to the activities of the Woomera Range in the 1960's launches for third parties are now a minimal percentage of the workload. 
The main function of the Woomera Range is to conduct trials of weapons and launch rockets for Australia and the United Kingdom. In conjunction with the United Kingdom  we  have an agreed and satisfactory trials programme up  to  1974 to retain staff levels and capability. Beyond this the programme is naturally less firm but again there is no reasonto expect thata satisfactory workload will not continue. 
As  a  result of the increasing number of Australian initiated research and development tasks, Salisbury is now a viable establishment. Whilst continual  review of  procedures and organisational structures and updating of equipment and techniques have rendered replacement of staff wastage in some categories unnecessary in recent years, the workload is expected to continue  at  least  at  the present level. 
I can assure the honourable  Senator that  there is no need to anticipate any reduction in staff at the Salisbury laboratories, and no retrenchments are contemplated 
Yesterday  Senator Douglas  McClelland asked mc the following question: 
My question to the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation follows on the questions asked of- him by Senators Murphy and Georges. Can the Minister say whether full time educational training is available to servicemen returning from Vietnam, should they desire it, to enable them to qualify completely for a trade or profession in the same way as servicemen from the Second World War when not only those who served abroad but also those who served within Australia were able to receive such educational training and assistance? If- not, what type of educational training will be made available to servicemen returning from Vietnam? Will the Minister include that material also in the information which he bas undertaken to make available to the Senate? 
The Minister for Repatriation has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Educational and vocational training is available, either on a full time or part time basis, for all national servicemen, regardless  of  whether they served only in Australia or outside Australia. Periods of training are limited to one year full time or two years part time. Members of the permanent forces do not qualify for these benefits through the Repatriation System, but there are certain training benefits available to members  of  the permanent forces through the Service departments. 
Yesterday  Senator Murphy  asked me the following question: 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation tell us whether all soldiers and other military personnel who have served in Vietnam are entitled to all repatriation benefits, covering particularly such matters as rehabilitation training, war service homes and total and permanent incapacity benefits? If not. can he tell us in what way the position of those who served there is different from that of others who served in previous wars? 
The Minister for Repatriation has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Ex-servicemen, both permanent Forces and national servicemen, who served in Vietnam on special service' as defined in section 3 of the Repatriation (Special Overseas Service) Act qualify for war pensions, service pensions and medical treatment in the same way as members who served in previous wars and war-like operations. These ex-servicemen are also eligible for assistance under the War Services Homes Act. National servicemen qualify for re-establishment training under Part IV of the Defence (Re-establishment) Act. They and their dependants also qualify for most of the miscellaneous benefits that were available to members who served in earlier wars and war-like operations and to their dependants, the exceptions being: 
Grant of fares to take . up employment, in certain cases (Repatriation Reg. 77); 
Grant of up to $150 for' household furnishings to certain blind and permanently incapacitated members, and to certain widows (Reg. 80); 
Provision of tools of trade etc., by way of gift or loan to permit members or widows to engage in their callings or to obtain employment (Reg. 81). (NB A similar benefit is now available to certain trainees on completion of their courses); 
Transportation to Australia of widows who married members overseas, and of their children (Reg. 95); 
Transportation to Australia, of certain ex. servicemen who served -in forces of other dominions, and were domiciled in Australia pre-war (Reg. 96); 
Transportation overseas -of certain incapacitated members for their own benefit (Reg. 97); 
Transportation overseas of certain dependants for their own benefit (Reg. 98); 
payment of removal expenses of certain members who were trainees under the Commonwealth Reconstruction Training Scheme (Reg: 102a); 
Payment of removal expenses of certain members transferring to new localities in connection with land settlement, business undertakings or employment (Reg. 103); 
Payment  of  removal expenses of certain dependants  of  deceased members (Reg. 103a); 
Payment of a sustenance allowance to members waiting to enter into occupation of land or into possession of business (Reg. 178). 
I am aware of the apprehension of the fishing vessel to which the honourable senator has referred, but I am not aware of the details which the honourable senator has sought. I shall seek them for the honourable senator and let him have them. 
 Senator Jessop  spoke to me about this matter some weeks ago andI have been endeavouring to get for him some information which, if I may, I will give now. The controlled atmosphere storage of apples has been developed in Australia in recent years by State Departments of Agriculture and the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisaiton Division of Food Research. The technique is essentially one of storage in a low oxygen atmosphere at low temperature. I understand that Commonwealth Industrial Gases Ltd, using liquid nitrogen, has developed one of several commercial applications of the technique for producing the low oxygen atmosphere required in the storages. It is considered that no special Government measures are required to encourage the provision of controlled atmosphere storages because the economic advantages of this form of storage have already led to a rapid adoption of the practice. Virtually all controlled atmosphere storages have been built in the last 5 years, and statistics show that in June 1969 there were 44 controlled atmosphere stores with a capacity of 900,000 bushels, and in June 1970 there were 98 stores with a capacity of 1.5 million bushels. 
I think it is fair to say that within the limits of the money which is made available for this purpose, the Department of the Navy endeavours to plant stands of trees on shore bases. I understand that the Newington Armament Depot is trying to establish a stand of shrubs at the depot but because it is trying to establish a particular stand it is not being successful. One has to look at the particular types of trees and shrubs which one is endeavouring to establish at a base.I think that also one has to take into consideration whether armament depots are involved because one cannot have trees which will shed their leaves and create a fire hazard too close to such a depot. All these matters have to be taken into consideration. But in the main the answer is yes. 
I think ii is fair to say that I heard  Sir William  Gunn saying on television the other night that he had such an otter of money that could be used to finance a single selling authority. But I think the honourable senator has to remember that this offer was as  a  result of an Australian Wool Industry Conference motion which was . adopted in principle and in relation to which no details have been made available. I doubt whether at this stage details have been worked out by the Wool Industry Conference itself as to how the single selling authority is to operate. 1 am afraid that until the Government is approached with details by the Wool Industry Conference the honourable senators cannot have an answer to the question he asks. 
The Acting Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
It is an exaggeration to speak about a collapse of the Japanese wool yarn futures market. There was a fall in the prices of worsted yarn futures on the Nagoya Textile Exchange in late September and early October, however, by the third week of October the prices had recovered to midSeptember levels. 
This recovery took place despite the fact that during the same period, stocks of wool held by the Australian Wool Commission increased through further purchases. In these circumstances, it seems difficult to connect the preceding decline in worsted yarn futures at Nagoya with the stockholdings of the Australian Wool Commission. Moreover, since the Nagoya futures decline in question, there has been an improvement in the demand for wool by buyers, including Japan, at Australian auctions. 
The Minister for the Army has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Negotiations on the release of land in the Sydney Harbour foreshore area between the Prime Minister and the Premier of New South Wales have been proceeding for sometime. Some of this land is under the control of the Army. 
With regard to Moore Park I am advised that the Prime Minister is still awaiting a reply from the Premier to a letter which invited the Premier to provide details of the requirements and the development proposed by the Sydney Cricket and Sports Ground Trust. 
-T he Acting Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Yes. An appreciable decline occurred in the prices of worsted yarn futures on the Nagoya Textile Exchange in late September and early October. By the third week of October, however, prices had recovered to mid-September levels 
Since the fall in futures referred to, there has in fact been an improvement in the demand for wool at Australian auctions, as evidenced by improved clearances at auction sales in recent weeks. This fact demonstrates that the relationship between prices on futures markets and commodity prices in physical markets is by no means simple, and that a price shift in future does not necessarily presage a corresponding price movement in the physical commodity market. Indeed, studies have shown that it is not possible to rely on futures price trends to predict prices at wool auctions. Even more than wool auction prices, futures prices are influenced by a great variety of factors, including psychological ones, and show unpredictable fluctuations. 
The Minister for the Navy has provided the following answers to the honourable senator's questions: 
Yes. 
Yes. Vice-Admiral Peek, who was reporting the views of a regional group of a symposium he had recently attended, in fact used the words There is nothing necessarily ominous about the presence of a Russian fleet in the Indian Ocean. 
The Prime Minister has presented the Government attitude in his statement to the House on 23rd November, 1971. 
I think the facts are as slated by the honourable senator, and as I have answered 3 questions on this subject I have no further information to add. 
Apparently the honourable senator believes that most people should have increases in their incomes when they believe that they are due but that when it conies to the primary industries increased costs are- not to be incorporated in the wheat stabilisation plan. 
That is what the honourable senator is indicating. He will understand that under the Wheat Industry Stabilisation Act at the- beginning of each wheat season the Cost Index Committee, made up of the Director of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics, a representative from the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation and a representative of the Slates, looks at the increases that have taken place in the costs of the wheat industry over the past 12 months. The Committee l'-en suggests to the Government that an increase be made in the home consumption price of wheat and that portion of the wheat crop - 200 million bushels - in respect of which the Government guarantees the cost of production. This is something that has happened year after year since the introduction of the stabilisation scheme. Yet when the rural community is going through its toughest period ihe honourable senator questions whether allowances for these increased costs should be passed on to the wheat growers. 
I think what the honourable senator says is very true. 
I do not know what the honourable senator is trying to ask. I have no detailed information of any action that has been taken by honourable senators or other people in protesting against the increased price of flour. However, I did note this morning that someone is reported to have said that the price of bread will have to be increased by lc a loaf. To warrant that increase the price of wheat would have had to be increased by at least 34c a bushel. 
1 am well aware of the position of the apple and pear industry and particularly the matter of freights. Some time ago the Minister for Primary Industry visited. Hobart where he had discussions with the Apple and Pear Growers Federation of Tasmania, growers, exporters and Ministers for Agriculture from Western Australia, South Australia, Victoria and Tasmania in relation to this matter. Later on the Australian Apple and  Pear  Board had a special meeting and sent a deputation to London to try to negotiate a freight rate lower than that proposed by the shippers. On another occasion the Board considered a special request from Western Australia which put forward 3 proposals in relation to freight rates. All these matters are being investigated very carefully by the Minister and by the Apple and Pear Board. At this time I cannot say what the outcome will be. I shall give the honourable senator more information as soon as I find out anything further. 
I said that to justify a rise of lc per loaf of bread would require an increase of 34c a bushel in the home consumption price of wheat. That is so. In regard to the rest of the question, I think this comes within the responsibility of the States and has nothing to do with the Commonwealth. If the honourable senator wants me, through the Minister for Primary Industry, to write to his. State Premier, I will see what we can do about it. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. This Bill provides for the raising of loan moneys amounting to $4m for war service land settlement in the States of South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania during the 1.971-72 financial year. As honourable senators are aware the Commonwealth is responsible for the provision of the whole of the capital moneys required for the scheme in those 3 States. It is anticipated the money will be made available in the following approximate amounts: South Australia $ 1,683,000; Western Australia$1,600.000; Tasmania $717,000. 
As has been stated in previous years when similar Bills were introduced to Parliament, the greater proportion of this money is required to make advances to settlers to cover current working expenses and the purchase of stock and replacement plant. Most settlers under the war service land settlement scheme started on their holdings with little or no capital of their own. Adverse seasonal conditions have, from time to time, affected income in various areas where settlement has taken place. Some have experienced, and are still experiencing a cost price squeeze. It will be appreciated these various factors have operated against a proportion of settlers, particularly those on the later allotments, being able to build up sufficient financial reserves and working capital to enable them to carry on without further borrowing. Consequently, under prevailing economic conditions in the rural sector generally, the demand for financial assistance from settlers affected is expected to be not less than in the previous year. Access to the credit arrangements of the scheme is a great . advantage, particularly the concessional rate of interest applying to advances. 
Expenditure on development is mainly on continuing work on block drainage for irrigated horticultural holdings in the Upper Murray region of South Australia and on the irrigation headworks, including channels and pipelines, which supply water to settlers on holdings at Loxton in South Australia. Some drainage work is also to be carried out in Tasmania. Developmental work on farms in Western Australia has been completed. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debute (on motion by  Senator Drury)  adjourned. 
Recently  Mr Packard  was out here and the Department of Defence and the Department of Air had discussions with him. These matters, among others, were brought up and discussed. No final decision has been reached on the points to which the honourable senator refers. There can be no final decision until delivery of the aircraft is made and the total costs are taken into account. 
1 shall have a look at the question and discuss it with the Acting Minister for Primary Industry to see what I can do. 
It is quite obvious that I would have to approach the Minister for Repatriation to find out whether the committee has commenced hearings and, if so, how many witnesses have been heard. 
-BROCKM A N - It would not be true to say that all tests have been completed or that all information from the tests that have been completed has been evaluated because further information is still coming in both to the Department of Air and to the Department of. Defence. However, most of the tests have been completed and evaluated. It is hoped that the Minister for Defence will put a submission before Cabinet next week. When Cabinet will decide to examine that submission and make a decision, I cannot say. I do not think a report will be presented to the Parliament before the end of this session, but a decision will be taken by the Government as soon as possible. 
The 
Minister for the Navy has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The concept of the naval light destroyer project (DDLs) was based on the need to meet defence strategic requirements and to fulfil the specialist destroyer role of a fleet unit. I cannot concede that these ships "would be easily eliminated in time of war'. 
The RAN has 20 patrol boats in service and in addition to normal fleet tasks, these vessels patrol Australian and Territory of Papua and New 
Guinea waters to deter the incursion of illegal fishing boats. The recent apprehension of the Kuang Nam off the the north Queensland coast by the patrol boat HMAS Barricade illustrates my point. 
On the broader question of coastal surveillance generally, and the possible formation of a coastguard service, this matter is being investigated by an inter-departmental committee representing all interested departments. This committee is considering the organisation and material requirements necessary to ensure adequate protection of the Australian coastline and waters against various illegal activities, including fishing. 
The 
Minister for Supply has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
It is considered that there is some scope for rationalisation of the activities of the defence aircraft industry, particularly in. relation to the operations of the Government Aircraft Factories and Comonwealth Aircraft Corporation Pty Ltd at Fishermen's Bend. 
The aim would be to achieve a more stable and effective organisation that can develop with Australia's needs. It is believed 'that this course would be in the long-term interests of the industry and those who work in it. 
An in-depth study of the practicability of a merger of the two organisations is now in progress The study is a complex one, however, and it is not expected that any firm recommendations will be made to the Government until the early months of 1.972. At this stage it is loo early to say how the matter will be dealt with following Government consideration. 
I support what the Minister representing the Minister for Defence has said. The Services have been made very much aware of this project. At present a defence committee, on which the Department of Defence, the Department of Supply, the Department of the Army and the Depart- ment  of Air  are represented  is  studying the project  in  depth and the requirements that the Service might have. 
I shall not bring the matter before Cabinet but I shall certainly direct the honourable senator's query to the Minister for Repatriation and if he has any comment to make I shall provide it for the honourable senator. 
Recently, in reply to a question asked by the honourable senator I said that 1 thought there would be a record sale of grain this year. This has been so and, as has been announced by the  Chairman  of the Australian Wheat Board, at the end of the wheat season we had a carry-over of 126 million bushels. Altogether, we have sold 331 million bushels which is greater than the sales during the previous record year, 1966-67, of 313 million bushels. To this sale must be added the amount of wheat that we have used on the domestic market - just over 60 million bushels. The indications for the coming season are that the crop will be about 300 million bushels, of which 290 million bushels is estimated as being delivered to the Australian Wheat Board. 
It is well recognised that the wool industry has many problems before it. The Government, as well as wool growers, recognise those problems. The Government has made every effort to assist the growers overcome these problems, firstly, by setting up the Australian Wool Commission with its reserve price scheme; and secondly, by the introduction for one year only of a deficiency payments scheme. 
There are other matters of policy which  Senator Poke  and other honourable senators must look at, namely, the reconstruction and rehabilitation schemes. Obviously if a reconstruction scheme is to be carried out properly, there may be some people who will leave the industry - some because they have been in it for a long time and would like to leave it with some equity, and others because they cannot make a go of the present proposition. At this stage, I do not know - no-one knows - how many people will have to leave the industry. Only recently T was asked whether I had any figures on this matter. [ indicated then that even the State governments which are conducting the reconstruction scheme have not at this stage any detailed figures that can give us an indication of how many primary producers will have to leave the land. This adds nothing contrary to what I have already said. 
In due course we will see these figures, but at this stage T cannot give an indication. 
The Acting Minister for Primary Industry has supplied the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The honourable senator's question is understood to relate to rural loans made available under the Defence (Re-establishment) Act to national servicemen. The answer to his question is as follows: 
and (2) The number of applications for rural loans from discharged national servicemen who served in Vietnam is 328. Of these applications, 97 have either been withdrawn or have lapsed. Sixty applications did not meet the conditions laid down under the Act and hence have not been approved. A total of 104 applicants have received the full amount of $6,000 by way of loan. Eight applicants have received loans of less than $6,000. A further 12 applications have been approved for the full loan of $6,000 and the monies are in the course of being paid to the former national servicemen concerned. Forty-seven applications are currently under consideration. 
$659,723. 
The total number of applications from discharged national servicemen for rural loans under the Defence (Re-establishment) Act exceeds 650. 
 The Acting Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
No. 
The stocks of wool at present held by the Commission as announced by theActing Chairman of the Commission to the meeting of the Australian Wool Industry Conference on 25th November 1971 are 782,000 bales. 
No. 
The honourable senator's question on 3rd November 1971 raised the matter of the emergency assistance grant to woolgrowers made in the financial year 1970-71, and the reply, given was directed to that matter. The 1970-71 emergency grant bad nothing to do with the Australian Wool Commission and hence no question of conflicting statements arises. 
Pursuant to clause8 of the Sugar Agreement 1969, 
I present the report on the operation of the Fruit Industry Sugar Concession Committee Cor the period ended 30th June 1971, together with the Committee's financial statements and the Auditor-General's report on those statements. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to implement a scheme for the stablisation of returns to dried vine fruits growers for a period of 5 years commencing with the 1971 crop. The scheme to which this Bill and the associated Dried Vine Fruits Levy Bill 1971 and the Dried Vine Fruits Levy Collection Bill 1971 now seek to give legislative expression has been overwhelmingly supported by a referendum of growers recently conducted by the Commonwealth. The degree of rank and file support is evidenced by the voting figures. Of the 5,004 growers enrolled 4,616 or 92 per cent cast their votes: and of these 4,560 or 98 per cent voted in favour of the scheme offered by the Government. It is therefore with considerable pleasure that I bring down on behalf of the Government legislation so obviously desired by the industry. 
To assist honourable senators to appreciate what the scheme contained in this legislation means to the industry I would propose to look briefly at the history of the industry over the last decade. In the 1961- 62 season world prices for dried vine fruits fell to a catastrophic low. In the light of the then circumstances representatives of the various countries which exported dried vine fruits came together and, as a result, the International Sultana (Raisin) Agreement was achieved in June 1963, largely through the efforts of the Australian Dried Fruits Control Board and particularly through the efforts of its then  Chairman, Sir Eugene  Gorman. The original signatories to the Agreement were Turkey, Greece and Australia - Australia participated at industry level with the endorsement of the Australian Government - and while the United States was not a signatory it adhered from the outset to the terms of the Agreement in every way. The imple mentation of the International Sultana (Raisin) Agreement had an impact on world prices which picked up remarkably and the Australian industry was further helped by the implementation of a stabilisation scheme which covered the seasons 1964 to 1968 inclusive. This scheme was introduced by the Dried Vine Fruits Stabilization Act 1964 and auxiliary legislation following acceptance of the scheme by a majority of growers at a referendum. The Government made it a condition of this stabilisation scheme that in its closing stages and, if the Government were willing to continue the scheme, another ballot should be taken to determine whether growers wished its continuation - with or without amendment - for a further period. 
In the event negotiations with industry leaders were opened by the Government towards the end of the former plan and in March 1970, a further plan was submitted to a referendum of growers but was not accepted by the industry. This plan, if accepted, was to have had retrospective application to embrace the 1969 season and to obtain for 5 years from and including that season. Of the 3,745 growers of sultanas, raisins and currants who registered to vote only 2,437 voted. Of these 1,578 recorded 'yes' and 859 'no'. Of those voting therefore 65 per cent favoured the plan but, since the criterion for the acceptance of the plan was that there should be a majority of those eligible to vote and since those who vote 'yes' represented only 42 per cent of all eligible voters, no mandate for the plan was in effect given to the Government. Within a matter of weeks only of the industry failing to accept the offer of a new plan there came news ofthe generally unexpected possibility of the collapse of the International Sultana (Raisin) Agreement. It has been argued by some responsible industry leaders that had the referendum been held no more than 2 or 3 weeks later than it actually was the deteriorating circumstances of the industry which developed might well have brought a completely different result to the referendum. This can of course be regarded only as a matter of personal judgment but it might well be argued that the overwhelming 'yes' vote at the recent referendum, held only 18 months after the earlier poll, does give support to this viewpoint. 
In April 1970, only weeks after the referendum was held, a delegation from the Australian Dried Fruits Control Board, including a senior officer from the Department of Primary Industry who is the Government representative on the Board, rushed to London at very short notice for an emergency meeting of the parties to the International Sultana (Raisin) Agreement. World prices for dried vine fruits were falling dramatically and some of the sales practices of member countries were being fiercely challenged by other members. Further meetings of the parties followed - in Madrid in June 1970, in Capetown in November 1970. and in April of this year in London. It was obvious at the conclusion of this London meeting that the Internationa! Sultana (Raisin) Agreement which had been achieved in 1963 was finished and there was no chance of its surviving, certainly in its then form. In June of this year, representatives of the signatory countries, which had included South Africa from 1970, met for the last time as parties to the Agreement and formally resolved it out of existence. The only ray of light at all in this matter is the fact that the parties have agreed upon the likelihood of their coming together in June of next year to review the events of the 12 months which will have passed by then without international agreement. 
During its lifetime the conferences held under, the Agreement were all chaired by  Mr Setrakian  of the United States of America which is the world's largest producer of dried vine fruits and which, as explained previously, while not a signatory to the Agreement faithfully adhered to its terms during its lifetime. In a letter which  Mr Setrakian  wrote to the General Manager of the Australian Dried Fruits Control Board at the beginning of last year he said: 
I fully agree with you when you say that unless some miracle or strong action is taken it looks as though the Agreement is finished. I think you will agree that the death of the Agreement will, using the words of Eugene Gorman, impose upon the sultana and raising producers all over the world incalculable economic harm. Unless the position is corrected the whole Agreement could well collapse and in a good year we could see prices tumble to 1961-62 levels. 
Events have now caught up with the prophesies of  Mr Setrakian;  the International Sultana (Raisin) Agreement has collapsed and world prices are down around the 1962 catastrophic levels. 
Late last year the Board of Management of the Australian Dried Fruits Association, known generally as the ADFA, made a submission seeking to re-open with the Commonwealth negotiations for a further stabilisation scheme for this industry. The scheme which has just been so overwhelmingly accepted by the industry is the outcome of those discussions. The framework of the scheme and its machinery are broadly the same as in the 1964-68 scheme although there are one or two new features to which I will make specific reference later. It has been estimated that the cost of the scheme to the Commonwealth over the 5 years of its life and under such conditions as can be anticipated now will be of the order of $6m. 
The principal features of the scheme may be summarised as follows: 
Separate funds will be maintained for currants, sultanas and raisins. 
An average overall base price for the first season of the plan, 1971, of $273 a ton will be adopted. The base price will be adjusted for each season according to movements in cash costs, including family labour, as assessed by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics. 
The average base price for sultanas will be the same as the overall base price, $273 a ton for 1971, while currants will bc S40 per ton above the average overall base price and raisins $30 per ton below. 
When the average realised return to the grower - that is, gross return less costs necessarily incurred - is within the range of $10 a ton above or below the base price, no payment will be made into or out of the fund. 
When the average realised return is more than $10 a ton above the base price, all of the excess over the $10, with a limitation of $20 a ton, will be paid into the fund, subject to no payment being made unless the total pack exceeds the minimum tonnage limitation referred to below. 
When the average realised return is more than $10 a ton below the base price, a stabilisation payment equal to the shortfall below the $10 will be paid out of the fund, subject to a maximum of $23 a ton if  a  Commonwealth contribution is involved and to this ceiling and- the rate per ton being reduced pro ratatothe tonnage in excess of the maximum tonnage limitations referred to below. 
Tonnage limitations will be: 

<graphic href="050232197112075_22_0.jpg"></graphic>

The Commonwealth will underwrite the funds. 
Ceilings to the funds of$750,000 for currants,$4m for sultanas and $750,000 for raisins will apply. Any excess will be applied first to repay any past Common wealth contribution within the plan period andthen in refunds to growers on a proportionate basis. 
Where a stabilisation payment is payable, advances will be made by the Government when realisations are largely known. Bounty will be payable, based on statistics available at 25th February, to the extent of 90 per cent of the then estimated bounty with the remaining 10 per cent payable following final assessment of realisations. 
In the above outline will be noted . 3 new features of importance, as distinct from changes in details, of the proposed scheme as compared with that which obtained for the period 1964-68. These features are: 
A maximum rate of bounty of $23 a ton is applicable if a Commonwealth contribution is involved. This ceiling did not form part of the earlier scheme. 
Where bounty is payable in respect of a season's transactions the Government will make advance payment against the industry's bounty entitlement. I know that industry leaders are particularly apprecia- tive of this new arrangement which should prove to be of considerable assistance in helping to finance growers' seasonal operations. 
Repayments to growers of excess moneys over and above the ceilings to any of the stabilisation funds or moneys standing to the credit of any of the funds at the end of the scheme will be made on the basis of proportionate payments being made to all persons who have contributed to the funds prior to that point and not on the first-in first-out basis as obtained under the previous plan. This change has been at the request of the industry. 
I should point out that the tonnage limitations provided for in the dried vine fruits legislation, as well as the limitations onthe per ton levels of producer pay-in and Government pay out are designed to protect both grower and Government interests. For example, if growers' incomes are reduced drastically by production falling below a certain level, provision is made for no levy to be collected even though prices may be high. Moreover, there is a limit of$20 a ton on growers' contributions to the varietal stabilisation funds so that the grower pays in only a limited amount even if a large price increase should be experienced. On the other hand, the Commonwealth's financial liability is protected by the provision in the legislation for a maximum payout of $23 a ton up to a certain tonnage limit. The scheme contains certain maximum tonnages beyond which payments from the stabilisation funds, whether from grower or government money, are reduced. I should emphasise that maximum as well as minimum tonnage provisions are included because the purpose of the scheme is to maintain viable returns to producers at stable levels, and not to encourage unlimited expansion of production. 
During the negotiations which led up to the achievement of the scheme now given legislative expression in this and the complementary Bills presently before the Senate the industry leaders sought as assurance on the part of the Commonwealth that the operation of the scheme, if accepted by growers, would be kept under review and appropriate action taken bythe Government if necessary.I am happy to state on behalf of the Government that should the ADFA. because of significant changes in circumstances, seek duringthe life of the scheme a review of its operation such an approach will be considered bythe Minister of the day. This Bill and the associated Dried Vine Fruits Levy Bill 1971 and the Dried Vine Fruits Levy Collection Bill 1971 seek to provide the machinery under which the proposed stabilisation scheme will operate. As in the previous scheme if. during a season, calculations indicate that a charge is likely to be payable to the end of a season, a provisional levy may be imposed and later adjusted when sales for the season have been completed. Moneys collected from these charges will be paid to the appropriate stabilisation fund and payment from the funds will be made to growers when necessary. 
Although, as I have stated, a procedure is established for the imposition and collection of provisional levy it is anticipated that, as was the experience of the 1964-68 scheme, there will be no need to implement this arrangement since a special provision will be found in sub-clause (10) of clause 4 of (he Dried Vine Fruits Levy Collection Bill that provides 'where a person has made arrangements that, in the opinion of the Minister or of an authorised perron, are adequate to ensure that any levy that may become payable by that person will be duly paid, the Minister or the authorised perron may, by writing under his hand, exempt that person from liability to pay provisional levy'. Under the previous scheme, the Austraiian Dried Fruits Association incorporated a company, the services of which were available to any grower of dried vine fruit whether he was a member of the ADFA or not, which accepted on behalf of growers the liability for payment of charges and the responsibility for distributing bounty. The operations of this company were so successful that it would be envisaged that exactly the same machinery would obtain in respect of the new scheme and the Bills presently before the Senate have been framed wilh thi-; in mind. 
Rural industries in general are today going through difficult times. However,  1  think it fair comment to say that the dried vine fruits industry is being particularly hard hit by the ill winds of adversity. A huge question mark hangs over what the future holds for this industry; the International Sultana (Raisin) Agreement has collapsed and world prices are at a painfully low level with some of Australia's competitors not only showing no desire to see those prices lifted but even tending to adopt measures to drive them even lower with the mistaken thought that the Australian industry can be driven out of existence. This stabilisation scheme which is being now so eagerly sought by the industry offers no panacea for the industry's ills b it it will provide some measure of security to growers over the 5 years of the scheme and will enable them in that time to examine the problems of the industry in the light of the developing circumstances. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. - 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Drury)  adjourned. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to impose a levy, under certain conditions, on dried vine fruits received for packing. This arrangement is for the purposes of the stabilisation scheme referred to in my second reading speech on the Dried Vine Fruits Stabilisation Bill 1971. This Bill is complementary to the Dried Vine Fruits Stabilisation Bill 1971 and the Dried Vine Fruits Levy Collection Bill 1971. The Bill provides in clause 5 that, where the average return for a season in respect of a variety of dried fruit exceeds the base price for the season by more than $10, a levy is imposed on that variety of dried fruit received for packing during the season. However, if varietal tonnage does not exceed 8,000 tons in the case of currants, 60,000 tons in the case of sultanas or 6,000 tons in the case of raisins, no levy will be imposed, irrespective of the level of the average return. 
Clause 6 prescribes the formula under which the levy will be charged. Sub-clause (2) of clause 6 provides that the maximum rate of levy which can be charged is $20 per ton. Clause 7 of the Bill provides that the levy, if imposed, is payable by the packer of the dried fruit in certain circumstances with provision, under clause 1 1 of the Dried Vine Fruits Levy Collection Bill, for the packer to recover the levy from the grower. In other circumstances, namely when the grower receives the proceeds of sales of fruit other than through the agency of the packer, the grower is liable for the payment of the levy. Clause 8 imposes provisional levy in accordance with the provisions of the Dried Vine Fruits Levy Collection Bill 1971. I shall refer to the operation of the provisional levy in my second reading speech on that Bill. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Drury)  adjourned. 
1 move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill is complementary to the Dried Vine Fruits Stabilisation Bill 1971 and the Dried Vine Fruits Levy Bill 1971. The Bill provides the machinery arrangements for the payment and collection of provisional levy and levy to be imposed by the Dried Vine Fruits Levy Bill 1971. Clause 4 authorises the Minister to declare provisional levy which shall be payable within a prescribed time limit pending the establishment of final rates of levy. Sub-clause 10 of that clause, however, provides that where a person has made arrangements that, in the opinion of the Minister or an authorised person, are adequate to ensure that any levy that may become payable by that person will be duly paid, the Minister or the authorised person may, by writing under his hand, exempt that person from liability lo pay provisional levy. 
In practice, as explained in my second reading speech on the Dried Vine Fruits Stabilisation Bill 1971, it is proposed thai the Commonwealth will again substantially operate the scheme through the Dried Fruits Stabilisation Committee Ltd, which was the company which was established under the 1964-68 scheme by the Australian Dried Fruits Association, the major indus:ry organisation, for the purpose, among other things of facilitating the payments and collection of the levy. To the extent to which packing houses and selling agents in the industry may make arrangements with the proposed company on behalf of the growers, for such payments and collections, it is envisaged that provisional levy will be waived. It is thought that practically all, if not all, sections of the indus:rv will operate through the company for stabilisation purposes and thus secure exemption from payment of provisional levy. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Drury)  adjourned. 
I did see a Press report on this matter but I have no details. 1 will put the suggestion to the Minister for Primary Industry and if he has any comment to offer I will conveyit to the honourable senator. 
 The answer is no, I will write to the honourable senator and give him the information. 
Yesterday  Senator Poke  asked me a question along lines similar to the earlier part of the honourable senator's question. I gave an answer to his question, and I have nothing further to add to that. In regard to the matter of finance, at the present time the Government has set up 2 committees. One is looking into the feasibility of setting up a Federal Farmloan Insurance Corporation and the second committee which has been set up within the Department of Primary Industry, is looking at the supply and the demand for rural credit. When the reports of these committees come to hand the Government will study them and then make a decision. 
BROCKMAN - 1 understand that there are reasonably accurate export forecasts available, in respect of certain oil seeds, particularly maize, oats and barley. The forecast for export to Japan is reasonably good for rape seed, sunflower and sorghum, I understand. But I point out to the honourable senator that this does not mean that growers should rush into increased production, because the market may fall. On the other hand, if they were offered a guaranteed price the market could be quite good.  I  understand that the outlook in the European Economic Community is not bright at present. 1 have a good deal of information which, if the honourable senator would come to my office later, I will show him. 
A large proportion of the total number of people who were sent to the United States of America for training under the Fill programme! - both ground crew and air crew - on returning to Australia were posted to different units throughout Australia when delivery of the Fill was deferred. A number have left the Service; a considerable number have gone to higher posts, so that of the total number trained few would be available now to work on the FI 1 1 programme. This means that if the Government should make a decision to accept the Fill aircraft, crews will have to be sent to the United States for training. Included in those crews there could be a number of men who had previous training under the Fill programme, but they would be very few. If the decision should be taken a number of men, both ground crew and air crew will be sent to the United States for training. I cannot say when this would happen because 1 do not know when the decision will be taken. As to the detailed information sought by the honourable senator as to numbers, I shall have to get that information and provide it to him. 
The honourable senator knows as well as I do that when he asked me the question recently I asked him to put it on the notice paper to enable the Minister to give him an answer. That was not saying that the information was not available. 
That is true, but the honourable senator has only just asked the question. All I propose to do in relation to the question he has asked today is to ask him to put it on the notice paper, too. 
I agree with the honourable senator that the aircraft is a very good one because, like him, I have had an opportunity of seeing it and of having its potential explained to me. The honourable senator asked whether orders have come from the Department of Defence. At the present time a committee in the Department of Defence on which the Departments of Supply, Air and Army are represented is studying this matter in relation to the possible requirements of the defence Services. 
The honourable senator also asked about commercial ventures which might be interested in this plane. 1 know of a number of commercial people who are very interested in the aircraft, but 1 do not think that any firm orders have been placed at this stage. From the little knowledge that I have of the aircraft and from viewing it today 1 think that in many respects it would be an ideal aircraft for commercial airlines in country areas. 
The Minister for Supply has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The form of any new organisation which might arise out of the current studies of the possiblity of a merger of the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation Ply Ltd and Government Aircraft Factories is yet to be decided. Neither Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation Pty Ltd nor any of its shareholders is. to my knowledge, demanding a 51 per cent equity,. The studies being carried out jointly with the Corporation are proceeding but do not extend at this stage to negotiation for amalgamation? 
The identification and valuation of assets is one of the tasks included in the current studies. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to provide financial assistance to the State of South Australia to enable that State to make moneys available to Jon Preserving Cooperative Limited and Riverland Fruit Products Co-operative Limited. The cooperative canneries in South Australia and in New South Wales which take fruit grown in irrigation areas have been in financial difficulty for some time. The increasing indebtedness of the cooperatives had reduced returns to growers to- the point where serious hardship was experienced. In these circumstances a . thorough examination of the long term problems of the canned deciduous fruit industry was made by an interdepartmental committee during 1970. 
This examination showed that the position of the industry in certain irrigation areas could . not - be corrected and would be likely to deteriorate seriously unless the canneries were provided with some assistance to overcome the problems of servicing their long term debts. These debts were at an abnormally high level in each of the canneries for several significant reasons. In the first place, devaluation of sterling left each of the canneries with a considerable loss on sales made forward without exchange cover. In the second place, the last 2 years have seen adverse crop yields. These have seriously affected the through-put, the average production cost and thus the profitability and  cash flows of the canneries. In the third place, high capital cost of new equipment and inadequacy of old plant and machinery has seriously affected the profitability of both canneries. 
Following discussions between the Commonwealth and the South Australian Governments, it was assessed .hat for the Jon Preserving Co-operative relief from commitments to service long term debts to the extent of $780,000 would be required and for the Riverland Co-operative similar relief in respect of long term debts of $1.8m was necessary. The Commonwealth and State Governments agreed to share equally in providing this assistance. The Bill authorises financial assistance to the State of South Australia to an amount equal to the amount expended by the State in making advances to Jon Preserving Cooperative Limited and Riverland Fruit Products Co-operative Limited up to $390,000 in the case of Jon Preserving Cooperative Limited and $900,000 in the case of Riverland Fruit Products Co-operative Limited. 
The Bill provides that payment of the amount is subject to such conditions, if any, as the Minister by instrument in writing determines, and the conditions may require payment of the whole or part of the amount. The intention is that the advances made from Commonwealth and State funds lo the canneries will be made on terms which will relieve the cooperative of debts servicing obligations for the time being, but the money will be provided by way of loan rather than grant. The Commonwealth and State Ministers concerned will review the affairs of the canneries from time to time and, if circumstances should make this possible or appropriate, repayment can be required. 
Both the Commonwealth and State governments would of course have preferred that the need for this ' assistance had not arisen. The facts were, however, that the growers and communities on which these canneries depend would be faced with grave disruption and severe personal hardship if some way of relieving the canneries from the effects of their long term indebtedness commitments had not been found. This Bill seeks Parliament's authority for measures decided upon in consultation with the State concerned to meet a critical situation in the most appropriate way. In addition a Canned Deciduous Fruits Advisory Committee has been set up by the Australian Agricultural Council. This Committee has membership from the Commonwealth, from the States and from growers and canners. It is charged with the responsibility of inquiring into the means by which the long term problems of the industry can be resolved and making recommendations to the Australian Agricultural Council. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Donald  Cameron) adjourned. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be  now read  a  second  time. 
 The content and purpose of this Bill are similar- to those of the Bill which I have just introduced. The Bill provides for the provision of financial assistance to the State of New South Wales to the extent of $874,000 conditional upon the State making an advance of an equal amount to Leeton Co-operative Cannery Limited to enable that co-operative to reduce its financial indebtedness. The circumstances and reasons, for the high indebtedness are similar to those which I have explained in respect of the South Australia Grant (Fruit Canneries) Bill 1971. The Canned Deciduous Fruits Advisory Committee to which reference was made in introducing the South Australia Grant (Fruit Canneries) Bill 1971 will also report to the Australian Agricultural Council with respect to the long term problems of the industry in New South Wales. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate "(on morion by  Senator Poke)  adjourned. 
 Senator Cant  has made some very hard charges against the Government and against certain members of the Government. 1 think it is rather unfair of him to do so, particularly when he has very small knowledge of the facts of the case. Lel me point out to the honourable senator that air facilities have been at Learmonth since World War II. 
I want  Senator Cant  to listen to what I am about to say. Plans for the further development of the Royal Australian Air Force base at Learmonth were first discussed early in 1965 when it was proposed that extensions similar to those now proceeding should be started, but this proposal was suspended or deferred in September 1966 pending a subsequent review of the whole situation. I stress that  Senator Cant  should remember those years, 1 965 and 1 966. 
In 1969 the Department of Air suggested that the matter again be looked at.  Senator Cant  may recall that at 11th November 1969, and for some time thereafter, the Minister for Defence was  Mr Malcolm  Fraser. On 12th August 1969 the Government announced approval of the extensions. 
1 2th August. 
It was 1969. At that time the Minister for Defence was  Mr Fairhall.  Let us now turn to Kailis Gulf Fishery Pty Ltd. This business commenced operations on Linden Location 49 at Learmonth in 1963. 
A lease of the land was considered by the Western Australian Government, which is the owner of this land. That is the body which decides who shall have a lease of the land. Due to some departmental difficulties the lease was not formally approved until 1964. 1 have already told the honourable senator that the RAAF was not even interested in extensions at Learmonth until 1965. For Air Force operational reasons it was decided !o acquire the freehold interest in an additional area of land at Learmonth between the present boundary of the airfield and the coastline at Exmouth. This was decided as the Government wanted to upgrade Learmonth airport for operational purposes. In other words, it was decided to bring Learmouth up to operational base standards and to increase the length of the runway. 
We have not acquired the freehold. 
No, I did not. I said it was decided that it would acquire the freehold interest in the land in 1969. Included in this area was the prawn factory of Kailis. The trawlers came in each night to that prawn factory and thousands of seagulls congregated there because of the fish and the waste thrown overboard from the trawlers. The RAAF was establishing an operational base there, where aircraft would be taking off. We would have a bird nuisance there. So the Air Force believed that it should acquire the area in the interests of the safety of the aircraft and the personnel who fly them. Approval was given for acquisition of the land in question, at a . total cost of §343,000. The amount was made up as follows: The cost of the land about which  Senator Cant  was talking was §1,479, for 600 acres. That is a little different from $343,000, which  Senator Cant  was suggesting. 
The compensation for Kailis Gulf Fishery Pty Ltd was §335,000. This amount was agreed after the Chief Property Officer of the Department of the Interior in Western Australia and his officers had conducted detailed examinations of the factory itself and of the amount involved to replace the factory or to pull it down and erect it in another area. The officers relied not on Kail is' s figures alone; they spent a great deal of time in Western Australia talking to representatives of similar industries and to all kinds of businessmen about their view of the cost of pulling down this factory, transferring it some distance up the road and re-erecting it ready for the opening of the next season. There was involved a further charge of §6,521 for the disconnection of the telephone service to the factory and for installing it in the new factory. Approval of the Department of the Treasury and the Department of Defence had to be obtained. This was done. Both departments agreed that the final amount decided on should be approved. The amount paid to Kailis was §335,000. 
That has been paid to Kailis. 
A requisition amount of §343,000 was forwarded to the. Chief Property Officer in Perth on 11th October 1971. Of that amount Kailis has received §335,000. All this has been done in a very careful manner. I have watched this carefully. During the course of discussions I believed that the amount was very high. I required my Department to investigate the details of the total amount and why Kailis should have received that amount. I have been assured by the Chief Property Officer in Perth that the amount was the very least that Kailis could expect as compensation for the removal of his factory. 
Why has the Department resumed that land? It has resumed the land because it wants to make Learmonth an operational base, lt hopes that when Learmonth is updated it will be able to take operational aircraft to that base and conduct a series of exercises out of that base from time to time. What happens if the factory is left where it is? It is right in the way, in the take-off or landing path, of outgoing and incoming aircraft. Only one or two birds need to get in the air intakes of the jet bombers or fighters, whichever they may be. and an aircraft is lost. Not only is an aircraft lost but a crew is lost as well. I believe that this is an insurance against a possible disaster. Therefore, despite what the honourable senator has said, I believe that this has been examined very carefully. Although the sum may be large, I believe that in the long run it could be little to pay to prevent a possible future tragedy. 
I oppose the motion moved by  Senator Cant.  It is all very well for the honourable sena tor at this stage of negotiations to stand up in this place with hindsight and to talk about what should have been done, what has not been done and everything else. The honourable senator began his remarks by saying that in 1965 the Department of Air made a decision to bring the Learmonth base to operational standards, and he asked why the Department did not go on with that work at that time. I remind the honourable senator that the Department of Air makes many recommendations but that the recommendations must first be approved by the Department of Defence and then by Cabinet. It was not until 12th August 1969 that Cabinet finally gave approval to the recommendation to upgrade Learmonth to operational standards. 
I point out that Kailis Gulf Fishery Pty Ltd had a lease from the Western Australian Government which it wanted to convert to freehold. That lease continues in operation until 1975. If. the Commonwealth had not wanted to pay this money it could have waited until 1975, hoping that the Western Australian Government would decide not to renew the lease held by the company. But to the Western Australian Government this project is very important as an export income earner and it would not want to do anything that would place difficulties in the way of the company. If we had not made an agreement so that Kailis would move his factory voluntarily we could have found in 1975 that the Western Australian Government would say that this was a very important industry to the State, that it was a big export income earner and that it saw no reason why it should not renew the lease. In that situation the Department of Air, and particularly the Royal Australian Air Force, would have had this installation right in the path of aircraft which were taking off or landing. 
It is all very well for the honourable senator who knows that if his Party were in office it would use every power to push this or that chap out of his business. But this Government does not operate that way. The honourable senator is talking about the Government bypassing the Parliament. No such thing has been done. Parliament approves and allocates certain funds to a department. The expenditure of those funds on individual items is a matter within the prerogative of the Minister concerned. In this particular case $275,000 was allocated under a Supply Bill, the additional funds for the item coming from the Treasurer's Advance. This is norma practice which is carried on by departments and which has been carried on for a very long time. The other point raised by the honourable senator is on the matter of telephones. The Postmaster-General's Department, at the company's request, installed telephones in its factory. Is the honourable senator suggesting to me that when this factory was moved not half a mile, as he suggested, but some 12 miles up the road, Kailis should have said to the Postmaster-General's Department: 'I have no telephone. 1 did have one telephone system and I suggest that the PostmasterGeneral put in a new telephone system at the expense of the taxpayers'? ls the honourable senator suggesting that? 1 did not think he was, and I did not think that anyone as a taxpayer would suggest that having been given one set of telephones the taxpayers should be responsible for giving Kailis Gulf Fishery Pty Ltd another set. 
The Government believes that Kailis should pay for the new installation of his telephones. But he has already had them installed and. therefore, should be compensated for the cost of the installation of the new telephone setup in his new factory. That was why the payment was made. I know it is a large sum of money to be paid out to a particular industry. I know also that if one looks back over the history of this matter and seeks to associate all kinds of people with the firm, one can think of all sorts of wonderful stories which will indicate a considerable amount of favour. But those are not the facts. The facts are as I have given them. I believe that the amount of money approved for this venture is the lowest amount that we could get away with to move this installation from the site where it was to 12 miles up the road. We should bear in mind too that Kailis had until 1975 before anyone could kick him out. 
 Let me say that  Senator Cant,  who has just sat down, is rather confusing the issue because he is talking, about the Department of Supply all the time. No-one mentioned the Department of Supply; I was talking about the Supply Bill. 
All right. The passage of the Supply Bill is the normal action taken by the Parliament to give the Government carry-on money until the Estimates are passed. The Estimates have not yet been passed; but the government of the country has to go on. People have to be paid and claims have to be met; so money must be made available. Therefore there is no by-passing of the Parliament. 1 want to make that clear. 
On the matter of Learmonth, I have explained the position. I do not think there is anything there that really troubles us. The amount involved, as  Senator Cant  says, is not a great deal of money. I believe it is a fair sum of money, but I believe it is a sum of money that has been approved after a thorough investigation has been carried out by the Department of the Interior. The chief property officer in Western Australia and his officers carried it out after information had been sought from businessmen in Western Australia who have a thorough knowledge of what is involved when a business is uprooted, transferred about 12 miles and then reerected. 
I do not know that the Parliament has not agreed to this. It has been agreed to in another place. It has now come before this chamber and we are discussing it.  Senator Cant  made a number of statements as to what he thought had been involved in this action. I have told him the facts. 
And the facts line up with what he said. Finally he said that he did not think this amount was a great deal of money. 
All right. Those were the only points on which we were arguing. We have come to a decision and agreement on them. So why go off at a tangent and say that the whole setup of parliamentary accounting is wrong? We have an Auditor-General who watches expenditure very carefully. In addition we have a committee from both Houses of the Parliament and all parties in the Parliament which carefully watches the expenditure of the various departments of government. I believe that there can be no misappropriation of funds under that scrutiny. I think honourable senators know from past experience that the Auditor-General on many occasions has pointed the finger at certain departments and their expenditure and that the Public Accounts Committee has done the same. No department wants that finger pointed at it; so departments are most careful in the way they go about approving claims. In addition to that, the Department of Air has received the approval of the Department of Defence and the Treasury. I do not see how there can be any misappropriation of funds in those circumstances. 
I think  Senator Brown  would agree that he has covered a pretty wide field and I will give him as much information as 1 can now and, if he is agreeable, make inquiries of the Repatriation Department about the other information he seeks and write to him about it. I hope the honourable senator accepts that suggestion. He spoke about anticipated expenditure under the national service re-training scheme. As he pointed out, this expenditure is for recreation transport allowances, medical rehabilitation, funeral expenses, etc. 
The honourable senator may be a little wiser if I give him details about some of this expenditure. He will note that the estimate for 1971-72 is up by $180,357 on the expenditure for last financial year. These increases are made up as follows: Firstly, under the recreation transport allowance, the increased number of allowances is estimated to require $25,118. In respect of funeral expenses, the estimated increased cost is $18,949 and the increased number of recipients is expected to require a further $4,852, making a total under this heading of $23,801. For medical rehabilitation it is anticipated that a small increase in the cost per aid will need $7,849 and that an increase in the number of rehabilitees will need a further 825,161. The total increase under the heading of medical rehabilitation is $33,010. It is estimated that the increase in the number of cars, driving devices and allowances will cost a total of $18,768. 
Under the heading of small business loans it is anticipated that the increase in the average amount per loan will require a further provision of $30,765 and that the increase in the number of loans will require $29,865, making a total increase of $60,630 under this heading over the expenditure last year. Recoverable expenditure this year is expected to increase by 
Si 6,476 over that of last year. Other incidental expenses require a minor increase and the Department has anticipated it will cost $2,554. The grand total under this item in the Estimates is estimated to increase by $180,357. Those are the matters dealt with in item 10 of this Division.  1  cannot supply any further information to answer the honourable senator's questions at this point but I will seek the information from the Department and supply it to him in letter form if that course is agreeable to him. 
 Senator Cavanagh  has been quoting from a prepared reply which he received from the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth).  Is that not correct, senator? 
I have not had the opportunity of seeing or studying that prepared reply. I think that I should refer the honourable senator's remarks to the Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Holten)  for comment in relation to the subject matter which the honourable senator has raised. Firstly, let me make one point clear in relation to artificial limb and appliance services. In each State the Repatriation Department maintains a limb and appliance centre which supplies a wide range of artificial and surgical aids and appliances. It is Government policy to have such centres. Cabinet has approved that the centres provide limbs and appliances for eligible departmental patients and other Commonwealth departments and agencies. Provision has also been made for such service to be made available to State government departments, philanthropic organisations and private persons who cannot be fitted satisfactorily elsewhere. If this facility is made available to a private patient the Department recovers the full cost. The Department has established in Melbourne a central development unit which carries out research into and the development of artificial limbs and appliances. The director of this unit is a medical officer with a world-wide reputation. In fact, this officer has only recently returned from Malaysia where for some time he has been advising the Malaysian Government on the manufacture of artificial limbs. A pretty solid reputation has been built up by this organisation. In each State centre there is a medical specialist in this field. So 1 think it is pretty difficult to criticise the Department in relation to its efforts in this field. Nevertheless I will take up with the Minister the points raised by the honourable senator. The last matter he referred to was the independent inquiry into repatriation. He said that in his view the reference to the Committee did not go far enough in some matters. The references were laid down by the Government. It remains to be seen whether the matters mentioned by the honourable senator will be covered by the Committee. Again I shall refer the honourable senator's remarks to the Minister for Repatriation and no doubt the Minister will take up the points raised by the honourable senator and reply to him by way of letter. 
I am representing the Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Holten)  in this chamber. I will not give the honourable senator information which I am not sure is authentic. Therefore I will refer the matters raised by the honourable senator to the Minister himself. How am I to know whether the question the honourable senator asks me about a photograph in the report is a reprint from an American journal? 1 do not know. I have not done any study of it. It is for the Minister himself to say, not for  Senator Cavanagh  or for  Senator Drake-Brockman.  The honourable senator asked me as to the cost of running the 
Repatriation Artificial Limb and Appliance Centres. Towards the bottom of page 75 of the 1970-71 annual report of the Repatriation Commission the honourable senator will see this matter dealt with under the heading 'Repatriation Artificial Limb and Appliance Centres'. He will see that the gross cost for staff was $565,174; other consumable stores cost $264,981; and maintenance and miscellaneous charges amounted to $280,470; making a total of $1,110,625. 
I point out to honourable senators that 1 represent the Minister for the Army, the Minister for the Navy and the Minister for Supply. I am here with the advisers from the various departments to tell the Committee what the line estimates represent and how they are made up. Senators Cavanagh and Mulvihill have taken the opportunity of asking me a series of questions, some of which involve a great deal of research. I am sure that  Senator Mulvihill  will understand that I would have to approach the responsible Ministers and ask them to get the information for me. I will do that and provide it to the honourable senator as soon as I can. 
I reply briefly to some points made by  Senator Cavanagh  about the entertainment troupe that recently went to Vietnam. 1 understand that travel to Vietnam by this troupe was through the defence forces charter. The Army charters a civilian aircraft to go to Vietnam each week. On most occasions the aircraft is almost filled with troops and other requirements for Vietnam. At times there are a number of vacant seats. There were vacant seats available for the entertainment troupe. A daily allowance is paid by the Army to reimburse entertainers for their out-of-pocket expenses.  Senator Cavanagh  said that he thought the Government had promised that all troops would be home by Christmas. 1 am informed that about 1,200 soldiers will be in Vietnam. They will be engaged in closing down our base in Vietnam. I know from my Department that some Air Force personnel will be there. They will be required to ferry equipment and men who are in Vietnam at present. Everyone cannot go home for Christmas. There must be someone there to tidy up our equipment that is left there. It has been stated that the entertainment troupe that recently went to Vietnam will be the last troupe to go to Vietnam lo entertain the Australian forces. 

 Senator Cavanagh also made reference to a question that he asked me some time ago in the Senate about the number of officers in the Citizen Military Forces who are serving in Vietnam. I gave him the information which the Minister for the Army  (Mr Peacock)  made available to me.  Senator Cavanagh  read that information and questioned the answer. I do not think I should become involved in this crossquestioning by the honourable senator of what the Minister said in his reply. Let me say that a number of CMF officers have been sent to Vietnam as observers. The Minister said that in his reply. They were sent there to join the Regular Army units in operations so that they could gain actual battle experience which may be used, on their return, in training CMF troops. I do not think, by any stretch of the imagination, that a spell in Vietnam could be considered a holiday. I believe that the spell that these officers had in Vietnam must be of great value to them and  to  the CMF units in Australia. 
The other point I make is that the highest ranking CMF officer who has served in Vietnam is a lieutenant-colonel. That is all the information that I can provide at present. I shall see that the various Ministers have the points raised by the honourable senators brought to their notice. I will ask that a written reply be supplied to each honourable senator. 
Proposed expenditures agreed to. 
The only estimates remaining to be considered in the defence block are those for the Department of Air, consideration of which was postponed earlier this evening. I suggest, 

 Mr Chairman, that the Committee now resume consideration of the proposed expenditure for the Department of Air. 
Department of Air 
Proposed expenditure, 5287,420,000. 
-The  3  matters raised by the honourable senator have been dealt with by me in the Senate in answers to questions. On each occasion I have answered his question. I know that perhaps the honourable senator does not agree with the answers he received, but I believe that they were a true account of what has happened. The honourable senator asked whether  1  would reconsider my decision that the houses at Tindal are transportable and that probably we will want them for use at other sites somewhere in Australia or perhaps elsewhere. 
Yes. I was going on to say that at present my Department, together with the Department of Defence, is investigating what the future of these houses will be. The honourable senator has suggested that in the meantime they should be made available as living quarters for civilians in the area. I think this is a very worthy suggestion, but unfortunately, as the honourable senator has said, the houses are quite near to the runways of the airfield. 
If a young child ran out of a house and into the path of an aircraft, or if a vehicle moving about the area was struck by an aircraft, the honourable senator would be the first to stand up in this place and complain. I do not want to be responsible for a situation in which that could happen. I want a report from my Department and from the Department of Defence before I make a decision on this matter. I shall note what the honourable senator has said and bear it in mind when I am considering those reports. 
I have explained the position in regard to the lockers. The honourable senator says that he is aware of people who are prepared to make affidavits to the effect that the lockers which were burnt were, in their opinion, new. This piece of information is very enlightening. From day to day I receive letters from people who tell me not only how I should be running the Royal Australian Air Force but also what is going on in the Air Force. They write to me with every little complaint they can find, dealing with matters ranging from sonic booms from aircraft down to someone trespassing on their property, breaking gates and so on. I was very surprised to hear the honourable senator make this statement when no-one has written to me complaining that new lockers were burnt at that site. Until I receive other information I must abide by the information available to me as a result of inquiries by my officers who were instructed to investigate the matter after it had been raised in the Senate. 
I have stated the position with regard to the purchase of a de-bagging machine. No cement company was willing to supply bulk cement to Tindal for the works which were in progress. The Air Force said that it had a requirement for this machine, the Treasury agreed to expenditure on the machine and it was purchased. The work was completed and the airfield construction team was then moved to Amberley and later to Learmonth. 
I understood that it was used, although it was not used very much. The machine is now under cover waiting for the airfield construction company to move somewhere else where no bulk supply of cement is available. The machine will then be in use again. The machine should have a long life and perform much work for the Air Force. Neither the honourable senator nor I knows what work lies in front of the Air Force in this regard. I merely say to him that as he has raised these matters again I shall investigate them and if I have further information to give to him I shall supply it. 
The Minister for Supply has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
An in-depth study of the practicability of a merger of the two organisations is now in progress. The study is a complex one however and it is not expected that any firm recommendations will be made to the Government until the early months of 1972. At this stage it is too early to say how the matter will be dealt with following Government consideration. 
The honourable senator was talking about deficiency payments. Deficiency payments do not come into this. This Bill will provide capital for the Australian Wool Commission to purchase wool should that be necessary. If the price of wool does not reach the reserve, then the Commission buys it in. The deficiency payments come under a totally different scheme. 
Yes, it comes under the Wool (Deficiency Payments) Act which is something totally different from what we are dealing with now. We are dealing with making finance available to the Australian Wool Commission for the purchase of wool, should the price of a particular line of wool not reach the reserve price stipulated by the Commission. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment. 
Motion (by  Senator Drake-Brockman)  proposed: 
That the report be adopted. 
When the honourable senator asked me this question I said that I would take the matter up with the Minister for Primary Industry, which I did. He raised the question with the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation.I understand that that body has now advised the Minister that the Wool Research Laboratories are already examining this possibility in the research programme into the overall use of wool. I understand that the CSIRO already has made an investigation into the possibility of increasing the use of wool in upholstery fabric but its investigations so far show that the plastic fabric which is at present used in the car industry is very much cheaper. The CSIRO is now looking around for further uses of wool. However, it is a little early at this stage to give any further information than that. 
The Minister for Repatriation has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
As statistics on service pension variations taken out following the recent war pension increases did not distinguish the figures for totally and permanently incapacitated pensions from those for other pensioners, I am unfortunately unable to give the exact figure that the honourable senator seeks. 
However, the following information may be of some assistance. 
Out of a total of approximately 77,000 service pensioners, 1,336. lost their part service pensions as a result of the war pension increases payable under the last Budget. The number affected includes some pensioners on lower rates of war pension, as well as some wives and widows, all of whom had other means additional to their pensions. 
All single T. &amp; P.I. pensioners (about 1,000) lost their part service pension but the maximum part service pension that any such pensioner could have received previously was$1 a week, so that the net increase for these pensioners would have been at least $2.50 and they would still retain their entitlement to various fringe benefits, for they received these as T. &amp; P.I. pensioners, not as service pensioners. 
Some married T. &amp; P.I. pensioners who had private means in excess of the permissible maximum would also have been affected but, notwithstanding, all would have received an overall increase as  a  result of the increase in war pensions. 
The 
Minister for Repatriation has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
A notice appeared in newspapers throughout Australia in mid-November in which the Honourable  Mr Justice  P. B. Toose, C.B.E., invited writen submissions from interested persons or organisations who wish to place information or representations before the Enquiry. Such persons and organisations are to indicate whether they wish to attend before the Enquiry. Submissions are to be lodged no later than '11 February 1972. No witnesses have been examined to date. For the information of the honourable senator the formal opening of the Enquiry took place at 10 a.m. on 6th December 1971, in Sydney and was given advance publicity in the National Press. 
 I thank the Senate for the expeditious manner in which it has dealt with the Bill and for the attention given to it by those who spoke in the debate. As  Senator Laucke  said, each year a similar Bill is introduced to provide money for carry-on expenses on certain developmental works in Western Australia, South Australia and Tasmania in regard to war service land settlement properties. Both speakers in the debate come from South Australia. Both mentioned the problems in that State. I can well understand their concern for the war service land settlers upon whom these problems have considerable effect. I point out to the Senate that the original war service land settlement legislation was enacted in 1945, and some of the original settlers moved onto their properties in about 1946. 
I draw the Senate's attention to the fact that there is only one scheme - that is, the one with which we are dealing - in which the Commonwealth is really involved. In Western Australia, South Australia and Tasmania the Commonwealth provided all the capital and the States shared some of the losses. On the other hand, Queensland, New South Wales and Victoria provided the capital and the Commonwealth agreed that it would share the losses with the States. That is why I find the amendment moved by  Senator Drury  on behalf of the Australian Labor Party to be a little illogical. What authority has the Commonwealth to say to the governments of Queensland, New South Wales or Victoria that there will be a royal commission into their war service land settlement schemes? I think the Commonwealth would be told to get out. It could not look at the war service land settlement schemes in those 3 States, lt is quite true that it would be able to look at the war service land settlement schemes in Western Australia, South Australia and Tasmania. 
I return to one of my opening remarks. Some of the original settlers were on their properties in 1946. They have had since that time, including during the wool boom, to get established. Many are placed very well financially' at present. Many pay rents which, by today's standards, are very low. Many have had very attractive offers for their properties: Some have accepted the offers and have got out with substantial capital gains. So I do not believe that the problem is as bad as honourable senators say it is, when the whole period of the scheme is taken into consideration. Where it is bad- is where the newer settlers have gone onto the land and costs have started to rise. They have gone onto blocks that they have had to develop. As a result, they have had considerable costs. They have gone onto the blocks at a time when prices for primary products are' falling considerably.' So these settlers are finding it very difficult to make ends meet. 
I point out to honourable senators that this situation, pertains not only to war service land settlers but also to all those engaged in. primary industries. All primary producers, whether they be on war service land settlement blocks or on farms in any part of Australia, are experiencing the problems that these land settlers are experiencing. The problem is facing all primary producers. So these people of whom the honourable' ' senators spoke should be treated in exactly the same way that ordinary primary producers are being treated. The Government is trying to help primary producers by deficiency payments, by the establishment of the Australian Wool Commission, by reconstruction loans and by rehabilitation or retraining schemes. For those reasons I oppose the amendment. The strange part about it is that I think the Opposition is supporting the Bill. Whilst it seeks to add to the motion for the second reading of the Bill the words that in the opinion of Senate a royal commission should be appointed, the Opposition has nothing against the Bill. 
What will happen if the Bill is passed? The money will be made available. Of the total $1,683,000 that is being made available to South Australia, $1,233,000 is for credit facilities - in other words, for carryon expenses. The remaining $450,000 is made available for developmental work - the very necessary drainage work in the Upper Murray region of South Australia and irrigation headworks. This is very necessary work. The trees have been planted. I understand that if the drainage works are  not  completed the salt table could rise and kill all the trees. The work must go on. If the Senate expressed the opinion that a royal commission should be established the Government might have a look at the situ*ation and say: *In the light of the recommendation to establish a royal commission should we go on with the work?' I just ask that question. I have not yet spoken to the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  about the amendment). These are the kinds of matters that could arise. I oppose the amendment. 
I make brief reference to a couple of matters that  Senator Drury  raised. I refer to the important matter of the valuations for rent purposes in zone 5. I think  Senator Drury  and other South Australian senators, particularly Senators Laucke and Davidson, have asked questions in the Senate about this matter. The information I have is that the valuations for rents were fixed in 1963. 
I am sorry; I include the honourable senator. The valuations for rents were fixed in 1963 on what was believed to be a proper basis and one which the Commonwealth still considers can be supported as fair. The Supreme Court of South Australia found that the rents were not properly' notified, but it made no finding on whether they were properly fixed. Attempts made to test the valuations against general principles laid down by the Supreme Court gave no clear result. On one view of the principle kid down in the judgment, a literal application of them would result in obvious and gross inequities as between settlers. In an endeavour to reach a settlement which would end the matter, the Commonwealth and the State agreed on an offer which would be applied, if acceptable by all settlers. It would have involved a write off of development costs of around $11/4m to be shared between the Commonwealth and the State on a 60-40 basis. The settlers rejected this proposition out of hand. The Commonwealth has before it further proposals from the State involving an additional capital write down of up to another $250,000. On examination so far these proposals seem to involve inequities between settlers. The examination by the Common wealth will be completed and an answer given to the States as soon as possible. Public moneys are involved and a responsible attitude to the matter must obtain. 

 Senator Laucke made the point that it has been said that the Act should be amended to allow families to go into partnership on a property or in a business. To my knowledge this matter has been raised many times over the years, both from a settler's point of view and by honourable senators. The Government's attitude in this matter has always been that this responsibility was given to ex-servicemen because of war service. Therefore the Government believes that it should not open it up to members of his family. Whether we will ever see the day when the Government will change its view, I do not know. I shall certainly mention the matter to the Minister and let him examine what the honourable senator has said. No doubt, in due course, the Minister will drop the honourable senator a line saying what the results of his examination have been. The Government has always stood firm on this point over the years. 
The last matter I want to mention is in relation to Kangaroo Island.  Senator Laucke  raised this matter. The note I have states that it is an island located about 100 miles south east of Adelaide. There were 170 farms developed on the island. I think that three or four of them were old established farms and the rest were newly developed farms. Approximately 135 are still occupied by war service land settlement lessees. The balance have been transferred to other persons. All farms are leased for sheep breeding, fattening, wool growing and some cattle breeding with minor cereal growing mainly for fodder purposes. The settlers' current problems arise from the wool industry situation but there are some special stock problems because of the introduction of yarloop subclover. This is giving rise to clover disease in sheep with associated low lambing percentages and losses. These problems are currently under investigation. Also there are transport problems because of the island's location. The uncertainty regarding the continued operation of the motor vessel 'Troubridge' has been removed by the South Australian Government's decision to  purchase a vessel at the end of this financial year. The other points which the honourable senator makes I shall draw to the Minister's attention. I ask the Senate to reject the amendment and support the Bill. 
Question put: 
 That the words proposed to be added  (Senator Drury's amendment)  be added. 
 Senator Kane  has made an impassioned plea to the Senate on certain matters. The purpose of this Bill is to appropriate S30m to be lent - I stress the word lent' - to the Australian Wool Commission in order to supplement, as necessary, its working capital. 
1 did not interrupt the honourable senator when he was speaking. 1 want to make it clear that the money will be available for use by the Commission to the extent that it is necessary for it to purchase wool in the course of maintaining its reserve prices in the wool market and for the purchase of price averaging plan wool on hand at the end of the third pool period. There is nothing in this Bill about probate duty or the estabishment of a rural credit organisation. lt is a straight out decision by the Government to make available to the Australian Wool Commission $3 Om at a particular interest rate for a set period. 
I am not opposing the honourable senator and he knows it. Bills come into this House on certain matters and one can get up and speak on those matters or one can canvass the whole area of rural finance or wool marketing. I just point out that this Bill is restricted to a certain area. That is the only point I wish to make. 
We are dealing with a decision by (he Government to make $30m available to the Australian Wool Commission. 1 shall be as brief as I can. I just want to say that the Australian Wool Commission was set up 12 months ago in a situation of crisis in the wool growing industry. Wool prices had slumped lo what everyone thought were about 1948 levels, but in real terms those prices had sunk to much lower levels than the 1948 levels because of the rise in costs during the interim period. The main function of the Australian Wool Commission is to operate a reserve price scheme at wool auctions. The scheme aims at, first of all, protecting the wool growers from give away prices. It tries to engender stability in the wool market and it tries to give confidence to the wool buyers as to the value of stocks. The present Commission has had $86m made available to it to finance its operations. That is made up of $22m loaned by the Commonwealth and $64m loaned by the trading banks. Both amounts were loaned at an interest rate of  6i  per cent. It has to repay S30m of the bank loan by 30th April 1972. I believe, and I think all honourable senators agree with me, that it is disappointing that the Commission has had to continue to purchase quite heavily to hold the reserve price levels of wool, but the Government has stated and reaffimed its belief that this is the best course to follow in the present circumstances. 
I think it is fair to say that the demand for raw wool has been reduced to the immediate requirements of manufacturers on a day to day basis and that the Australian Wool Commission has been obliged to buy bigger percentages of wool offered at auction. All honourable senators know the present economic world set-up and the situation in regard to currency. Despite these adverse factors, the trade has bought about 70 per cent of the wool sold at auction. When the amount of wool bought by private trading is taken into consideration, I think it is fair to say that about 80 per cent of the total clip has been sold. After ten of the most difficult and the most depressed months in the history of wool the Commission holds stocks equivalent to less than 10 per cent of a normal Australian clip. It has been able to prevent a price slide, which I believe could conservatively be estimated at about 20 per cent. This has been borne out by the example of the wools for which the Commission has withdrawn its support and the price of which has since that time fallen by as much as 34 per cent. I say that if the Commission had not operated on a reserve price the rest of the clip could have fallen by up to 20 per cent. No-one can dispute the fact that the price of the lower grade wools have fallen by up to 20 per cent. 
On behalf of the Opposition  Senator Wilkinson  moved an amendment. I sympathise with him. I share his concern about the matter. Only recently my Party, at its federal conference in Canberra, moved a motion calling upon the Government to consult with the industry about the introduction of an acquisition scheme. The motion went on to suggest that the industry should draw on the Reserve Bank for finance to operate the scheme. I am one of those who came into this place in 1958. In my maiden speech I suggested that the wool industry should have an acquisition scheme. Since those days in 1958 the wool industry has had a great deal of difficulty and argument about the type of marketing scheme that it should have. I can well understand the honourable senator's concern about this. This is where I depart slightly from his thinking. I point out to the honourable senator that only recently there was a meeting of the Australian Wool Industry Conference in Sydney. Two federal bodies - the Australian Wool and Meat Producers Federation and the Australian Wool growers and Graziers Council - comprise that Conference. Over many years, as the honourable senator knows, they have been opposed in relation to the way in which the Australian clip should be marketed and in relation to many other matters such as promotion; research and so on. For the first time for many years these 2 federal organisations have come- together at the Australian Wool Industry Conference level. One organisation, the Australian Wool and Meat Producers Federation, said that it wanted an acquisition scheme. At this Conference meeting the other organisation said that it was not opposed to an acquisition scheme. During the course of that Conference a committee was formed. Its job was to look at certain things. 
So that the honourable senator may look at and study the matters at which the committee was to look I shall put them on record because I think they are matters which have to be studied in detail before we can say that we want the introduction of an acquisition scheme. The committee was appointed to investigate, as a matter of urgency, the broad outline of a plan designed to place the industry on a firmer basis in the long term. I know that the honourable senator would not disagree with that. But this plan involves the study of the following courses of action: The amalgamation of the Australian Wool Board and the Australian Wool Commission and the composition, powers and functions of the new body. At this stags no-one has said what they should be. The courses of action also include: The improvements in wool marketing, including the merits or otherwise of an acquisition scheme with or without fixed prices. At present no-one has said how the scheme should be run. The courses of action also include: The manner in which wool should be disposed of - that is, by auction or by direct sale. At present no-one has said how the wool should be disposed of. I continue with the courses of action. They include: The changes in the handling and the transportation of wool and the application of new technological improvements. A committee has been set up to look into the transportation and the handling of wool from the wool shed to the manufacturer's door. Various committees have estimated the cost of handling a bale of wool from the time it leaves the shed door until it enters the manufacturer's establishment. But no-one is happy about this. So the Wool Industry Conference said that the committee has to look at this. 
It has to look also at the improvements in the present system of shipping negotiations. I know that the honourable senator, who comes from Western Australia and knows the situation in relation to the shipping of apples from that State and the costs involved, would agree most heartily that the committee should look at that. The committee has to look also at the use of long term credit to enable wool growers to diversify into other forms of agricultural production and thus assist in reducing the wool production. For  Senator Kane's  information, on previous occasions I have stated that the Government has 2 committees in operation - one to establish the feasibility of setting up a federal organisation to make available to primary producers rural credit and the other, established within the Bureau of Agricultural Economics of the Department of Primary Industry, to establish the need and supply of credit to the rural industries. Until we have reports from those 2 committees I do not think we can say whether we should have an acquisition scheme. 
I am reading the Wool Industry Conference's recommendations and the decisions it made about examining various matters. I am reading each recommendation. The committee was to make a study of greater co-operation between Australia, New Zealand and South Africa in the field of wool marketing. I think the honourable senator would agree most heartily with this. The committee is to consider also stimulation of demand and hence the sale of wool by co-ordinating, through the International Woo] Secretariat, the promotion of wool selling policies. This could include direct merchandising of wool, perhaps, on a government to government basis. We do not know. The committee's job is to find out and to make recommendations to the Government. The direct merchandising of wool will involve changes in the organisation and function of the International Wool Secretariat and the need for more finance for this purpose. We have to look at this situation. 
On the other hand the Government, having heard the industry say these things, welcomes the initiative taken by the industry in developing plans for its future. It will be appreciated, of course, that the Government cannot commit itself in advance of a proposal put forward by the industry. I think the honourable senator recognises this situation at this stage. The spokesman for the wool industry is saying: We have a committee and this committee has to look at certain things. Until we know the results of that examination, while we accept acquisition in principle we want to know more about it before we go to the Government with this scheme'. The Government has appointed a top level committee under  Sir Richard  Randall to examine from the Government's point of view, after consulting various sections of the wool industry, what it believes should be done to assist the industry. This sort of examination cannot be done today or tomorrow. It takes time. While there may be many on the Government side who, like myself, believe that in the long term acquisition is the answer to the wool industry's problems, the Government cannot come out and say that this is the answer until it knows the results of the wool industry examination and of the examination carried out by the Government itself. It is for that reason, and that reason only that I cannot support - and the Government cannot support - the honourable senator's amendment. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be added  (Senator Wilkinson's amendment)  be added. 
I listened very attentively to what  Senator Primmer  said and while he was speaking I was wondering what  Senator Wilkinson, Senator Cant  and  Senator Willesee  were thinking about his suggestion that private wool buyers in Western Australia should be done away with, because they are responsible for buying 25 per cent of the clip in that State. I am sure the honourable senator's 3 colleagues will give him a little talk after he leaves the chamber. I do not think that the Government has been tardy in introducing this Bill in which we are asking the Parliament to appropriate S30m for the wool industry. This will make a total of $116m available to the Australian Wool Commission. The Commission was set up in very quick time. 
 Senator Primmer  has just come into this place. My colleague  Senator Young  and I were in the Australian Wool and Meat Producers Federation for many years while  Senator Primmer  was still in the sticks somewhere learning about the wool industry. At that time we were making certain decisions. I do not want to get involved in this subject because I recognise what the honourable senator has said. He expressed a very popular feeling among some people who do not know a great deal about the wool industry. In 1951 this Government asked the wool industry whether it wanted a wool marketing scheme.  Senator Primmer  knows as well as I that that suggestion was voted out by the Australian wool growers by a substantial margin. In 1961 the Government set up the Wool Marketing Committee of Inquiry under the chairmanship of  Sir Roslyn  Philp. The Philp Committee said in its report that there should be a body which could speak on behalf of the entire wool industry. At that time there were 2 federal bodies, one saying one thing and the other saying the direct opposite. It was not until the former Minister for Primary Industry,  Sir Charles  Adermann, told these 2 bodies that the sooner they sat down around a table and got together to discuss their problems the better it would be for the industry. The result of the Philp report and the then Minister's discussions with the industry was the formation of the Australian Wool Industry Conference. Then the industry said that it wanted another marketing system. It came to the Government in 1965 and the Government said: OK. We will hold a ballot.' And what happened,  Senator Primmer?  The wool industry, by a fairly substantial majority, voted it out. 
The wool industry voted against the idea. The honourable senator stood up here and said that the wool industry should do this and that, lt is all right for the honourable senator who has had no experience in the wool industry to say those sort of things. They are the sort of hackneyed phrases that have been put around the wool industry for many years. Let us get down to basic facts.  Senator Mulvihill  is interjecting and 1 do not know whether he knows anything about wool or fur, 1 do not know what he knows. I refer now to the position in 1969 when the Government said- 
Let us gel above that sort of thing. The Government suggested a price averaging system and the growers agreed and supported the Government substantially. Then we learned from experience that we had to go a step further. In 1970 the growers said, through their industry leaders, that they wanted a wool commission and that is what we have now. I have said already to  Senator Wilkinson  that there are further steps ahead which we must take but we cannot go ahead like a bull at a gate and say we want this, that and the other. We have to take the growers along with us. I have explained this to  Senator Wilkinson,  the spokesman for the Labor Party on this matter, and he would agree with what 1 am saying because he knows the industry. He has been engaged in it himself. 
Yes. 1 think  Senator Wilkinson  realises that we have to look at certain problems and overcome certain objections put forward by the 2 federal bodies. 

 - Senator Primmer is entitled to his opinion. If one looks at the situation one realises that the examination made by the industry' and the examination made by the Government can lead us to what  Senator Wilkinson,  speaking on behalf of the Labor Party, is aiming at for the 1972-73 season. I sincerely hope so. But I believe that the addition of the amendment to this motion, which we have dealt with and about which 1 do not want to say anything more at this time, will not result in progress to that stage. I have noted what  Senator Primmer  said and I will see that his remarks are conveyed to the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  because I believe that anything said by any honourable senator in this place should be dealt with in that way. I will do that but I must say I cannot support his suggestions. 
When the Acting Minister for Primary Industry made the announcement that $30m would be provided, if necessary, to enable the Australian Wool Commission to continue its present reserve price scheme, he made the point which I made that it was very disappointing that the Commission had had to continue to purchase to hold its reserve price. He also stated that the Government had reaffirmed its policy in the belief that it was the best course to adopt in the present circumstances. In his report to the Australian Wool Industry Conference  Mr Vines,  Acting  Chairman  of the Australian Wool Commission, stated that since July the Commission's stockpile had risen by 315,000 bales of a value, as at 11th November, of $34m. It then became necessary for that amount to be provided to finance the Wool Commission's operations for the remainder of the season. The Commission therefore asked the Government for it and the Government, believing that its policy, as announced previously, had to be reaffirmed, has made this amount of money available to the Commission. 
 As you are not upholding the point of order,  Mr President,  I would like to reply. 
No, Sir.I would not do that. I just want to say that the Government opposes the amendment.I am not canvassing anything that you have said,  Mr President.  The Australian Wool Commission already has the power to dispose of accumulated stocks. The Opposition is saying in the proposed amendment that it believes that the stocks of Australia's accumulated wool should be disposed of rapidly. 
All that the Opposition is doing is moving a vote of no confidence in the whole of the wool industry set-up. It is saying that despite the fact that over the last 12 months the Commission has endeavoured to support a reasonable price for wool and to support the growers, it believes that the Commission or the single selling authority should put these stocks on the market as rapidly as possible. The Opposition, in its proposal, is seeking to pull the bottom out of the wool industry. 
If the honourable senators wants me to go on for a couple of hours in reply to that interjection I can do so, but I do not think that his Leader wants me to do that. He wants to get this amendment out of the way as soon as possible. 
No, I will not. I am opposing it. If it is carried it will be a great disaster for the wool industry. Having for 12 months supported the wool industry, having averted a situation in which wool prices could be 20 per cent lower than they are at present, the Government is faced with this proposal. The Opposition wants the Australian Wool Board and the Australian Wool Commission to be dissolved and a single authority established. The immediate task of the single authority would be to dispose of the accumulation of stocks as rapidly as possible. The amendment does not say at what price. It does not say what the state of the market is. 

Words, words,  Senator Little.  What do you think the Wool Commission has been doing for the last 12 months? Apparently you believe that the Commission has not done any job at all. 
-I am talking about the Labor amendment andI do not want to be sidetracked. Members of the Opposition and those who support the amendment are saying that after the dissolving of the Wool Board and the Commission the new authority should dispose of the stocks as rapidly as possible irrespective of the climate of the market or whether there is a demand for the wool. If this amendment is carried it will be the greatest possible disaster for the wool industry at this time when it is facing all the problems of the cost/ price squeeze and a low price situation. The Labor Party wants to have an amendment carried that will pull the bottom right out of the wool market. 
Question  put: 
That the amendment (Senator's Murphy) be agreed to. 
I suggest that we have one second reading debate covering the 3 Bills dealing with dried vine fruits. However, a vote can be taken separately on each Bill. If the Senate agrees, I suggest that that course be followed. 
I have said all along in answer to questions on this subject that the Cabinet will be dealing with this matter and will make a decision as to whether or not we should purchase the aircraft. The Cabinet has a submission before it but I cannot say, and it is not for me to say, when Cabinet will deal with it, In regard to the cost, the honourable senator has been taking his information from some newspaper reports. In due course an announcement will be made as to the cost of the aircraft. I have never hidden the fact that the basic, cost of this aircraft is $5.95m. I have said time and time again that there have been increased costs for modifications to the aircraft. Honourable senators should remember that some of those modifications are safety modifications. There has been an escalation in cost over the years. 
in reply - The same arrangements have been made in relation to this Bill as have been made in relation to the South Australia Grant (Fruit Canneries) Bill, which was just debated. For the reasons I stated in the debate on the previous Bill, the Government cannot support the amendment moved by  Senator Douglas  McClelland. 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time; and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
 I wish to make 2 points. Firstly, this is not bad legislation. These provisions are contained in every Bill of this kind. I see no objection in  Senator Rae  trying to spell out these things in another Bill which he may introduce. However, on this occasion I do not think it warrants holding up the whole stabilisation scheme for 3 months when the growers want this money. 

 - Senator Rae is asking me to delay the proposal by asking me to amend the Bill. He has asked me to give him an assurance in relation to this matter but he knows that I cannot give him an assurance because 1 am not the Minister for Primary Industry. However, I will take up the matter with the Minister and draw his attention to the comments that  Senator Rae  and other honourable senators have made. 
The Minister for Repatriation has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Repatriation legislation makes no provision for compensation in such a case. 
The Minister for the Navy has provided the following answers to the honourable senator's questions: 
No. Existing arrangements are completely adequate in this regard. 
No. 
in reply - I hope we can come back to the 3 Bills with which we are dealing. I recognise that the wine industry in South Australia is a very important industry. This is borne out by the fact that nearly all the speakers who have taken part in this debate are South Australians. The 3 Bills that we are discussing endeavour to give legislative expression to the wishes of the dried vine fruit producers of Australia. The Bills provide the machinery for a stabilisation scheme. If any industry has had experience of what it is like to live under a stabilisation scheme and then give it away it is this industry. In the referendum that was held recently 98 per cent of growers voted for a stabilisation scheme. These growers have had the experience of having some sort of guarantee and then giving it away. They know what it is like to live under the conditions of a free market. Each honourable senator who has spoken has traversed the history of the marketing of this industry and the industry itself. 
I beg your pardon,  Senator Little.  I know that you did not. 
 That is right, because these facts are contained in the second reading speech. I will not add anything other than to make one comment on a point raised by  Senator Drury  who led for the Opposition in this debate.  Senator Drury  raised the matter of a single marketing authority. The single statutory authority proposal has been put up many times. I think that honourable senators from South Australia have asked about it in this place. It has never been accepted in the Australian Agricultural Council by any of the producing States nor has there been any evidence that a single marketing authority would achieve any economy. The Opposition has given notice that it intends to move 2 amendments to one of the Bills. I shall deal with them whenI have heard the arguments advanced by the Opposition. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
 The points that the honourable senator raised, particularly the last points, do not apply in this Bill because there is no case of any inspector having entered a grower's property. The fruit is brought to the packing sheds and it is the packers that the Government is dealing with all the time. If the honourable senator reads clause 8 (2.) he will see set out how the packing sheds arrive at the average return for fruit. The clause to which he objects is 8 (3.) under which the Minister, in order to establish an average price or return to the growers, takes a sample of a number of factories. In the last scheme the Minister took a sample from factories that covered about 80 per cent of the growers who were supplying fruit. I understand from my advisers that particular attention was paid to the Sunraysia and Renmark areas where most of the dried vine fruits are grown. When the Minister receives the samples from the packing sheds which have been selected, he declares an average return to the growers. That is all that the clause involves. 
The Australian Dried Fruits Control Board is given a price below which it is not allowed to export fruit as, because there is a stabilisation scheme in operation, people might think that the Government would make up the difference if the growers did not achieve a certain return on their fruit and that therefore, the Control Board could fix an export minimum at an absurdly low price, hoping that the Government would, through its stabilisation scheme, make up the difference. Under clause 9 (a), the Minister is empowered to step in and instruct the Control Board not to fix a price at such a low level when the fruit is selling at a much better level overseas. That is all that clause 9 (a) involves. 1 have noted the rest of the information and I will draw it to the Minister's attention. 
 Senator Rae  spoke to me earlier and pointed out his concern about this matter.  I  agree with him that it would be a matter for concern if we were dealing with a large number of producers of dried vine fruits. While I have no strong objection, in principle, to the provisions to which  Senator Rae  referred being spelt out in the legislation, I see no need to do so in this Bill. I know the concern which  Senator Rae  has expressed, when discussing other stabilisation schemes, about this matter of the Minister for Primary Industry seeking further information in a proper manner and the person who has to furnish the information being given a reasonable time to do so. In this Bill all transactions relating to the furnishing of information and the making of consequent payments into and out of the stabilisation funds are conducted through the packing sheds. 
The Government had experience of this industry between the years  1964  to  1968,  and it knows these packing sheds and their reputation. During the whole of that period there was not one instance in which Government officers were not able to obtain the information they required. Clause  27  of the Dried Vine Fruits Stabilisation Bill sets out what the packing sheds have to do in the way of providing information and so on. I can understand the concern of  Senator Rae  and his colleagues about this matter, and perhaps if we were dealing with other legislation I would agree that the provisions to which  Senator Rae  referred should be spelt out. But as  Senator Rae  has suggested, if we were to amend this Bill today implementation of the scheme would be held up until next year. Only a few packing sheds are involved.  1  do not think that an amendment to this Bill is required at this stage. I am not going to chase ail the hares that  Senator Cavanagh  has put out. We have had experience in the administration of this legislation. We know that the packing sheds will provide the information required. 
They have to be there. 
I am not saying any more.  Senator Cavanagh  is entitled to his views. He can express them. They will be brought before the Minister and if he has any comments to add to what I have already said 1 have no doubt that he will write to the honourable senator. 
This sub-clause is an important part of the Bill. Clause  10  deals with the collection of levies. This is what happens: The grower brings his fruit in. It is in an ordinary open box. On the side of the box is marked the weight of the box. The box and the fruit are put on the scales. The recorder notes the tare of the box. He deducts that from the total weight shown on the scales. This shows the amount of fruit that that grower has delivered at that time. In order to fix the levy on a ton of fruit the industry must know the total amount of fruit received by the cannery. The only place from which it can get the information is from the packing house which receives the fruit. Under clause  27  of the Dried Vine Fruits Stabilization Bill a packer is required to keep records. If the Government believes that someone is covering up for some fruit which has been delivered and of which there is no record, it seeks this information, but again it only seeks it from the packing houses. 
I am talking about fixing the levy and to do this it is necessary to know the tonnage received for the season. The only way to get that information is to get it from the packing houses. The Government believes that without this information the scheme would not be successful.  Senator Little  summed it up by saying that some growers would be paying the levy and some growers could escape the levy. However, in this particular case this really is not so because the packing house will in time be making returns to the growers and from the gross return to each grower it will deduct the levy, after it has been fixed, and the various cost involved in packing the grower's fruit. Every grower, whether he likes it or not, has to pay the levy because it is deducted from his return by the packing house before it sends out his cheque. So the collection of the levy does not really affect the grower. It does affect the packing houses because they have to supply the information. The Government believes that this clause is necessary if the scheme is to be conducted successfully. 
 I cannot accept the amendment. I think it can be said that the Australian Labor Party has always felt strongly about this matter. I am sure that it understands what is involved in the matter. As  Senator Drury  said, some years ago all legislation of this kind contained a provision that prosecutions could be commenced up to 5 years after the commission of the offence. I think the Democratic Labor Party moved an amendment that the period should be reduced. There was also a request from the Australian Labor Party that the period be reduced to 12 months. The Democratic Labor Party wanted a period shorter than the period in the Act. I think the honourable senator will recall that I suspended the consideration of the Bill in the Committee stage and went to the Government on this matter. After consulting my advisers it became quite obvious that the Government could shorten the period from 5 years to 3 years but that it could not shorten it further because of certain administrative problems to which I now refer. 
Many Bills of a similar nature contain provisions for payouts by the Commonwealth Government. As part of the Bills there is a provision that the Department of Primary Industry must continually check on the way in which these payments are made to packing houses, factories or similar bodies. The staff of that section of the Department is small and it has to cover various industries in all States. Because the staff might be working on  a  particular industry, quite often it does not immediately detect a case which requires the administration to write to a particular factory, packing house or grower and say that there is something wrong or that the returns have not been made. Quite often the administration writes and receives a series of letters to or from the factory or individual on the matter. 
The Opposition seeks to shorten the period to 12 months. Eight months could have elapsed before the inspectors in the Department detected a particular situation. Therefore they would not have time to write and receive a series of letters to and from the other party. Because the Labor Party seeks to shorten the period in which a prosecution can be laid from 3 years to 12 months the Department of Primary Industry would have to prosecute immediately. In the present situation the Department often finds that by writing a series of letters backwards and forwards it can get over the problem that it wants to solve and no prosecution is necessary. So it says that it wants a much longer period that 12 months. If the Opposition believes that instead of trying to solve the problem the Government should immediately prosecute, then it will support this clause. I do not believe that we should shorten the period. I think it a much better way to give the individual more time. Let us solve it out of court without any prosecution being involved. It is for that reason that I want to see the period of 3 years stay in the Bill. 
in reply - I thank honourable senators for their contribution to this debate. I can well understand  Senator Donald  Cameron's concern in this matter because the canneries in which he is very interested are in a very uncertain and shaky condition at the present time. I note that the Riverland Fruit Products Co-operative Ltd has some 850 suppliers supplying fruits to that cannery, and there are 500 suppliers of fruits to John Preserving Co-operative Ltd. It was decided to make this grant available to the canneries after the Commonwealth had set up an interdepartmental committee consisting of representatives from the Prime Minister's Department, the Department of the Treasury, the Department of Trade and Industry and the Department of Primary Industry. This committee went to these canneries and made a study of their financial positions and prospects. It then had talks with State Ministers and representatives from departments of agriculture and made a recommendation to the Government that assistance should be provided to them. The committee also recommended that a canned deciduous fruits advisory committee be set up to make a study of the canned fruits industry, to recommend what assistance be given to the industry or to the factories and to make any other recommendations it thought might assist the industry with the problems confronting it. This committee is asked to report its recommendations to the Australian Agricultural Council in February. So we are waiting for those recommendations at the present time. 
The amount of money made available under this Bill to each of these factories is, of course, to be supplemented by a similar amount being made available by the State governments.  Senator Donald  Cameron drew attention to clause 5 and his amendment draws attention to the fact that in this Bill there is no agreement such as was set out in the Bill by which the Commonwealth made $4.2m available to the Shepparton Preserving Co. Ltd last year. There is a difference between these 2 circumstances which I shall explain to the honourable senator. The Shepparton Preserving Co. Ltd was sufficiently strong to meet a financial repayment programme. It had taken delivery of fruit from growers and had a large carry-over of canned fruit on hand but had no money with Which to pay growers after taking delivery of the fruit. The company was able to put forward a financial programme that would allow it to make repayments of the loan over a certain period to the Government. 
This situation is totally different. We have factories which are financially on their uppers. If the Government told these companies to pay back loans over the next 3 years at so much a year and an amount by way of interest equivalent to, say, 6½ per cent, it might find that the factories were not in a sufficiently strong financial position to do this. So the Commonwealth has said to South Australia: 'Here is money available without interest at the present time and no repayment schedule. We will watch the position and see how it develops in the next year or two. Then the Minister for Primary Industry will meet the State Ministers to decide what is the situation financially in relation to these companies, how they will make their repayments - whether it will be by loan or in certain instalments. The charging of interest will then be arranged'. It is because of that situation that the Government cannot spell out in this Bill an agreement similar to the agreement spelt out in the Victorian Grant (Shepparton Preserving Co. Ltd) Bill.I ask the Senate to bear with me in the situation. As  Senator Donald  Cameron says, if the companies go to the wall whole towns and the growers in the surrounding area who depend on the factories will be losing a livelihood. The Government says: 'Here is the money. We will watch for one or two years or even a further period to see how you go. If you become financially stronger the Minister for Primary Industry and the State Minister will get together, will review this situation and will work out interest rates and how repayments are to be made'. Having said that, I think that we should proceed to a vote. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be added  (Senator Donald Cameron's amendment)  be added. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: (1)I am not aware of the particular Press reports to which the honourable senator refers. Speculation in the Press about the Australian Wool Commission's policies has been frequent and largely inaccurate virtually, since the Commission was established in November 1970. The Commission's current firm reserve price policy was announced by the Acting  Chairman  of the Commission before the beginning of the present woolselling season and has the support of the Government. Indeed the Treasurer stated very recently in his Second Reading Speech on Appropriation Bill (No. 3) 1971-72 that the Government had decided after a review of the wool market situation that the best course of action in present circumstances was for the Commission to maintain its current reserve prices. 
Because of the variety of unpredictable factors which influence the wool market it is not possible to forecast with accuracy what the level of stocks held by the Commission might be at the end of the current selling season. 
The Government has placed no fixed ceiling on the amount of wool that may be purchased by the Commission. There are, however, continuing and frequent consultations between the Commission and the Government on the policies followed by the Commission. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has supplied the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Yes. I am glad to say that the thanks of the State Fruit Board and of the Tasmanian fruitgrowers were expressed to the Waterside Workers' Federation, whose members played a significant part in the export of an immense quantity of fruit from Tasmanian ports. The Federation, I believe, is aware of the importance of the export fruit in the Tasmanian economy, and of the dependence of growers on getting the fruit to market in a very limited period. 
Daily loading rates in southern Tasmanian ports were 15,156 bushels compared with 16,687 bushels in 1970. In northern Tasmanian ports the daily rates were 12,182 bushels compared with 11,748 bushels in 1970. The overall Australian average rate was 13,064 bushels. This was sufficient to attract a rebate on the freight rate of almost 7c per bushel for apples. The high rates achieved in southern Tasmania obviously lifted the Australian average, although the rates achieved there were some 1,500 bushels per day less than in 1970. 
The Minister for the Navy has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
According to recent press reports, the US Navy has stated that Captain Cariker had been relieved of his command because his relations with Australians had become strained. 
The Government regards such  a  request  as  entirely  a  matter for the US Government. 
The operation of the station and the administration of US Navy personnel are matters for the US Navy. The Australian Government would require to be associated with any enquiry only, if breaches of Australian law were involved. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Yes. 
The Court of Petty Sessions, Cairns, ordered forfeiture to the Crown of all sedentary organisms found in the fishing vessel 'Kuang Nan'. Approximately 12½ tons of meat equivalent to about 13,000 giant clams was involved and this has been unloaded from the vessel for conversion into protein meal. According to the evidence given in court only about 100 clams were taken on the Australian continental shelf it being claimed that the remainder were taken off the New Hebrides. 
However in accordance with the penalty provisions of the Continental Shelf (Living Natural Resources) Act the court ordered the forfeiture of all sedentary organisms found on the ship. 
The Minister for  Primay  Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable sena or's question: 
The determination of prices at which bread or other commodities may be sold in a State is a matter for the State concerned. lt is widely known that 46.3 bushels of wheat provide one short ton (2000 lbs) of 72 per cen extraction flour; and that that quantity of flour can be used to produce more than 1300 standard 2 lb loaves of bread. I am sure that these are familiar figures to State authorities charged with the responsibility for price fixing and that they are taken into account when considering the fixed price for bread along with all other relevant factors such as any changes in wages and in prices for other raw materials. 
The Minister for Repatriation has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The  Hon. Mr Justice  P. B. Toose, C.B.E., commenced his enquiry on18th October 1971. Initially, he set out to familiarise himself with the Repatriation system by making close examination of the relevant legislation and other documentary material and by visits to the Repatriation administration and to some institutions. Public hearings were opened in Sydney on 6th December 1971 and were adjourned to a date to be fixed after 11th February 1972. As can be seen from the reference above to the preliminary work carried out prior to 6th December 1971,  Mr Justice  Toose has been, and will be, carrying out relevant investigations as well as hearing evidence in public. 
The fact that the Enquiry is being held has been widely advertised throughout Australia. Alt persons and organisations who wish to have their views considered have been asked to send in their written submissions and asked to indicate whether they wished to be heard orally. While the  Chairman  of the Enquiry has set 11th February 1972 as the date by which he wished submissions to be lodged, he did indicate at the public hearing on 6th December 1971 that he will give thought to the manner in which submissions received after that date will be considered. Hearings will, in the discretion of the  Chairman  of the Enquiry, be either open to the public or in private. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
No RAAF VIP aircraft were used by the Ministers concerned for participation in the McPherson electorate pre-selection campaign during the 3 months period prior to 3rd November 1971. 
Not applicable. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
In addition to a loan made available to the Australian Wool Commission for working capital by the trading banks in 1970-71, the Government negotiated with the trading banks a further loan of $30m for this financial year for the same purpose on the basis that it will be repaid not later than 30th April 1972. The interest rate is 6.5 per cent per annum. 
-BROCKMAN - I have to slate Government policy, which is a little different from what the honourable senator does. The Committee also made reference to multi-national exercises off the Western Australian coast. It is certainly our intention to encourage similar exercises with our allies whenever possible. Finally, as I said at the outset, this report provides a most useful review of the history, interests and policies of the nations of the Indian Ocean. The Government is conscious: of the need for a continuous watch on developments and, indeed, has already taken certain steps to improve our defence posture in the area. Other steps will be planned if and when the need arises. 
On behalf of my colleagues in the Country Party 1 join with the Leader of the Government and the Leader of the Opposition in this chamber in paying tribute to the late  Senator Courtice.  Those of us who served here with him will endorse everything that has been said by the two leaders. I know that many honourable senators did not have the opportunity to serve with  Senator Courtice  but they will be fully aware, from the remarks that have been made by the Leader of the Government in the Senate, of the excellent service that he gave to this chamber, to his State and to this country. When I was elected to the Senate in  1958  it was my privilege and pleasure to get to know  Senator Courtice  and to recognise in him the qualities that earned him his appointment as  Chairman  of Committees and as Minister for Trade and Customs from  1946  to  1949.  I assure those honourable senators who were not acquainted with the late  Senator Courtice  that he was a credit to both his State and his country. In all political and personal matters he displayed intelligence, integrity and courtesy. I believe that the Labor Party could be truly proud of him. On behalf of my Country Party colleagues I join with the previous speakers in extending to the family of the late  Senator Courtice  our deepest sympathy on his passing. 
This is a matter which is under consideration at the present time. No submission has been made on it. The Department is studying the matter. Certain modifications would be required. At this stage, I cannot say if or when this item will be ordered. I will need to do some investigation on that point. I will let the honourable senator have an answer later. 
On a number of occasions in this place I have emphasised the importance the Government places on credit for the rural industry. Because of the importance the. Government places on this matter, the Minister for Primary Industry some time ago set up a committee in the Bureau of. Agricultural Economics to investigate the need for credit facilities, particularly in the sheep industry. That committee still has to make its report, but I understand that it is carrying out a very thorough investigation of the credit facilities available in this country and the demand for credit by producers. I understand that already it has carried out a very thorough investigation of the credit facilities available to producers overseas and how they measure up against the facilities available here in Australia. As I said, the Government is well aware of this need, and when the report comes to hand the Government will examine it as soon as possible. 
1 am aware that all sections of the wine industry have been united and extremely vocal in making protests about the wine tax, but I understand that there are quite a few indications that some companies are quite buoyant and that some firms have been buying into the wine industry. But the general river co-operatives, particularly at Berri, Loxton and Renmark, seem optimistic although they have been told of thi disastrous effects of the excise. At the Australian Agricultural Council meeting which was held in Perth recently and was attended by Ministers of Agriculture a report was made about this matter. At the present time investigations are being made by an independent committee of inquiry and that committee will report to the Government shortly. I am sure that the Government then will be fully informed of what is actually happening to co-operatives in the river areas and will make a decision one way or the other on the report. 
I cannot say exactly how much wool was bought in by the Australian Wool Commission but there have been statements, some of them without foundation, that the Commission bought up to 800,000-odd bales. The Commission bought very heavily between July and December of last year and in some cases it bought as high as about 45 per cent of the offering. At the recent Sydney and Adelaide sales something like 50,000 bales were offered and the Commission bought in 33 bales altogether. I think this is a very marked difference from the earlier sales. At the present time I understand that the Commission's stocks have dropped to 570,000 bales from the reserve price operations and 130,000 bales purchased as a result of the price averaging plan. Those are the only firm figures I have at this stage. 
I said earlier to the honourable senator that the RAAF has been carrying out an examination of the laser weapon. We do this as a normal procedure with all new equipment that comes onto the market and which could be of use to us. At present the Department is evaluating the matter. Whether we take this equipment will be determined later on. The honourable senator asked me whether this would require modification of the aircraft. Certain equipment is to go into the FI 1 1 which is not provided for in our Fills at. the present time. I say this in regard to nuclear weapons: Certain modifications must be made and certain equipment must be added to our Fill aircraft for them to carry nuclear bombs. That equipment has not been added to our aircraft. We do not intend to have a nuclear weapons capacity in our aircraft. As to when a decision was made to look at the question of laser beam equipment, J said that I would need to examine the papers that are in the Department and I would let the honourable senator have a further reply. 
On hearing of this occurrence through the Press, I set up an inquiry into the matter. I have the report before me at the present time and I am hoping that I will be able to make a statement to the Senate later this week. 
The total cost as from 16th December 1971 when the Australian Government decided to continue the Fill programme is $US344m. The honourable senator has shown an interest in the matter of storage over a long period and has asked a number of questions on it. I think that my reply has always been that it is a matter of consultation between the Governments of the United States of America and Australia and their air forces. The honourable senator will recall that, just before the Parliament rose at the end of the last session, the  Deputy  Secretary of the United States Department of Defence,  Mr Packard,  came to Australia with departmental officers of the United States Air Force. The Minister for Defence and I and officials from our departments had discussions with him on this matter. The honourable senator will recall that a figure of $US6.3m had been mentioned as the possible charge for storage. After negotiations, it was decided that the cost to Australia of the storage of these aircraft would be reduced from $US6.3m to $US266,000. That will be the cost to Australia of the storage. 
In the last part of the honourable senator's question, he asked whether we were seeking further Fill aircraft. In our joint statement issued on 16th December last, the Minister for Defence and I made the point that the Royal Australian Air Force required a reconnaissance capability and that this was to be considered. Investigations were not complete and the RAAF was not in a position to make a recommendation to the Government at the time. The investigations would embrace the feasibility of Australian participation in the development and manufacture of reconnaissance packs for the Fill. There are a number of ways in which we may overcome this deficiency in reconnaissance capability. One way is to put a pack on the FU J or possibly on the F4E. But the Department is still studying this matter and the newspaper comment today that Australia is to get additional Fi l l aircraft is just comment. 
-BROCKMAN - The 
Minister for Supply has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Records have always been maintained of movements of files and films at the Weapons Research Establishment but those pertaining to the film and copy of the film in question were destroyed some years ago. 
Return of files and films issued to authorised persons and sections within the Establishment is not normally insisted upon unless they are required for use elsewhere or by other persons. 
-BROCKMAN- The 
Minister for Supply has provided the following answer to the honourable Senator's question: 
The documents, some classified, were left in a locked drawer of a filing cabinet put up for sale at auction. The papers had been overlooked in the routine inspection of the surplus equipment to be auctioned. (These papers were all dated prior to 1960 and at the time of auction had lost any, significance they might have had.) 
As a result of this incident, the existing procedures were revised to ensure that pre-sale inspections of surplus equipment would be thorough and effective. 
-BROCKMAN- The 
Minister for the Navy has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's questions: 
A large quantity of oil from the tanks in Hobart was drawn off by HMAS 'Supply" on 4th December 1971 in keeping with the policy of turning over stocks of oil to the best advantage 
There is no present intention of disposing of the site of the oil fuel installation in Hobart, lt is Navy policy to maintain stocks of fuel at selected ports throughout Australia. 
The land containing the Navy Oil Fuel Installation is owned by the Commonwealth. 
Yes. 
-BROCKMAN- All right. I make that point. I agree to the extent that I could not see any immediate threat to the integrity of Australia's mainland by Soviet deployment in the entire region, or indeed to our areas of deployment. Bui J would suggest that it would be most prudent for the Government to watch changing circumstances as they arise to ensure that our interests in the area are safeguarded. Our own interests are identifiable also with those of many countries in the area with which we have developed already close and friendly relations. We would wish that these relationships continued to be maintained and developed. Our future activities and interests in trade, aid programmes, cultural exchanges and defence will unquestionably have a bearing on these relationships. 
The Government has followed a course of discussions between our allies on matters of common interest. As honourable senators will be aware the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  during a visit overseas last year discussed the position of the Indian Ocean both in England and in the United States of America. Discussions along these lines are continuing. While it is clear that Britain intends to retain a military presence in the South East Asian and Indian Ocean areas, it is also true that this  presence  is much reduced from earlier days. This places on us a greater onus to become as self sufficient within our own resources as we can, and as soon as we can. This is not to deny that we cannot, still look to powerful friends for aid if the need arises but this places a direct responsibility on us to be in a position to develop our own strength. 
As I said earlier the Government recognises that we have a direct interest in the continued security of the Indian Ocean area and in our important sea and air lines of communication, both strategic and com mercial, there. In addition we have in our island territories in the Indian Ocean, the Cocos Islands which have a special significance as the Committee has probably observed. It is in our interest to demon-, strate our concern and our military capacity to sustain a security role. With this in mind the Government has already taken steps to build up the defence infrastructure in the west and north west Australia. Let me deal first with Learmonth. The report recommends that air facilities al Learmonth should be established and become operational as soon as possible. As honourable senators will be aware the Government announced a major re-activation programme for the Learmonth base in 1970. This work has been pressed on with the utmost speed and it is expected thai the airstrip will be ready for operational use towards the end of this year and that all work will be completed by December 1973. The runway is being extended to 10,000 ft and taxiways and aprons are being constructed. Accommodation for personnel and their essential services such as electrical reticulation are being provided in this programme. The total cost is estimated at $12. 5m. The Government recognises the value of increased surveillance capability in the eastern Indian Ocean. 
Royal Australian Air Force long range patrol activity has been extended and coordination in patrol activity in the area with our allies is being developed. Our Orion aircraft can operate from Learmonth base and with its wide radius of operation gives us a flexibility and mobility of the highest order. Great areas of the sea can be covered quickly and economically both in manpower and total allocated resources. Response time is quick and contact can be made with unidentified shipping or aircraft at short notice. Operating out from Darwin, which can also be used for these activities or from Pearce from which surveillance exercises have recently been carried out, the radius of action for maritime surveillance or reconnaissance can be extended from the Philipines to Mauritius. I must also mention that if the need should arise all aircraft in the Royal Australian Air Force inventory including the FI I lc can operate out of Learmonth base when the work there is completed. I cannot emphasise too strongly that the Government's decision to update this base has given us a focal point of response over the whole of the Indian Ocean. The Committee has also recommended that consideration be given to updating the facilities on Cocos Island. The RAAF, as well as our allies, is at present using Cocos facilities for long range maritime patrols. We recognise the strategic importance of Cocos and of its airfield facilities. These will be maintained. 
The report also recommends that the naval facilities at Cockburn Sound in Western Australia should become operational as soon as possible. Work on the initial stage of the Cockburn development - the construction of the causeway - is ahead of schedule and now half finished. It is expected that this part of the development, with associated engineering services, will be completed by the end of 1973. When the entire facility is finished, which the Government expects will be by 1975, it will provide facilities capable of supporting 4 escort vessels and 3 submarines for up to a year. Planning is also under way for the permanent stationing of naval units in Western Australia when the Cockburn facility is developed. The Committee has also recommended that these facilities should be made available to friendly powers under mutually agreed arrangements. The United States already has welcomed the possibility of using facilities at Cockburn Sound and the requirements of our allies will have been kept in mind. The development of this naval base will, together with Learmonth, improve our surveillance and reconnaissance capability for the whole region. 
The report refers to the five-power arrangements in the context of Australia's growing responsibility, in conjunction with its neighbours and five-power allies, in maintaining - within the limitations imposed by our military strength and financial resources - peace and security in the region. The negotiations with our regional allies - Malaysia, Singapore, Britain and New Zealand - leading to the establishment of the five-power defence arrangements, have been successfully concluded and the arrangements are now in effect. The Australian contribution consists of a battalion group and logistic support elements based in Singapore, 2 squadrons of Mirages and base facilities at Butterworth, with a detachment of 6 aircraft permanently deployed at Singapore, as well as naval vessels and a submarine, in rotation with a British submarine, deployed in the area. An Australian, Air Vice-Marshal Susans, has been appointed commander of the integrated air defence system established for the air defence of Malaysia and Singapore. 
The Committee has examined in some detail great power involvement and interests in the Indian Ocean region - specifically, the role and interests of Britain, the United States, Japan, China and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. The Committee discussed the United States Middle East force operating from Bahrain in paragraph 31 of its report. The United States Government has announced that on 23 rd December 1971 it concluded an agreement with Bahrain under which the United States is to lease parts of the former British naval base at Jufair. Previously, the United States had an informal arrangement with Britain on behalf and with the approval of the Bahrain Government, under which the United States Middle East force - comprising a converted seaplane tender, as a flagship and 2 destroyers - had been based on Jufair for over 20 years. A recent British decision to return the Jufair facilities to Bahrain would have left the Middle East force without a base, and it had therefore become necessary for the United States to negotiate a status of forces and leasing arrangement with the Bahrain Government. United States spokesmen have made clear that the United States Middle East force based on Bahrain will not be enlarged, and it remains the only permanent United States naval presence in the region. However, a modern command ship the USS 'La Salle', will replace the seaplane tender in July 1972. 
In answering Press inquiries about the United States-Bahrain arrangement on 6th January 1972, a Pentagon spokesman also indicated that units of the Seventh Fleet would continue to operate in the Indian Ocean from time to time, but not on any fixed schedule or at any fixed or permanent level. He revealed that the United States Commander-in-Chief Pacific Fleet, to whose command the Seventh Fleet belongs, has been given responsibility for United States naval operations in most of the Indian Ocean. This task was formerly shared with the United States CommanderinChief Atlantic. The Pentagon spokesman commented that this new arrangement was to bring the Indian Ocean area under one unified command and would enhance United States capabilities to operate there if necessary. Although these statements do not indicate any change in United States policy inasmuch as elements of the United States Seventh Fleet have made random sorties and conducted exercises in the Indian Ocean before, the Australian Government welcomes continued United States deployments in the Indian Ocean and the agreement with Bahrain, as well as the development of the joint United StatesUnited Kingdom communications facility at Diego Garcia, and sees this evidence of United States1 interest as a valuable and necessary demonstration that the United Stales has a security role and capability in this area. 
The Committee has recommended that the opportunity or initiative should be taken to arrange visits of goodwill by Australian naval forces, which would serve to highlight the interest of Australia in maintaining peace and security in the region and in becoming an integral part of the region. The Government recognises the value of such 'flag-showing* visits, and a study is planned on the practicability of drawing up a programme of visits to certain countries of the Indian Ocean littoral in support to our diplomatic policies in the region. 
The contribution by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  was, I believe, on a much lower key than that of his 2 colleagues earlier in the debate. I think all of us in the Senate and in this Parliament, in fact people throughout Australia, would agree that we should do whatever we can to lessen the tensions between nations throughout the world. But I do not go along with the honourable senator in saying that in working towards this goal we should reduce the defence effort of this nation. Gone are the days when a government representative can walk into some manufacturing firm, in either this country or some other part of the world, and get a piece of sophisticated equipment off the showroom floor like buying a car. You cannot do this. An order for equipment must be placed a considerable time before delivery is required. Also, I think we need to take into consideration that, to man this sophisticated equipment these days, we must have men who have been well trained to use it. 
I join with  Senator Gair  in paying tribute to the Joint Committee on the report that it has produced. I believe that the report is an important document and one which draws attention to matters of considerable impact lo Australia as a whole. It makes suggestion as to certain courses of action which are open to us. I believe that it has a special impact on and interest for Western Australians who for many years have been advocating a better understanding of the importance of the Indian Ocean region with respect to Australia's vital interests. 

I am only the representative of the Minister for (he Army in this place, so of course I am not aware of the matter referred to. 
 Mr President,  during an answer to a question without notice by  Senator Willesee  this afternoon in regard to the procurement of F111C spares, I did indicate to the Senate that later I would seek leave to make a ministerial statement about the procurement of spares by the United Slates Air. Force for the F111C aircraft. I now ask for leave to make that statement. 
The RAAF purchased its spare parts for the Fill aircraft from the United States Air Force. I might say that we have purchased only one year's supply of spare parts. 
This question arises out of a report that appeared in today's newspapers, and I hope that the Senate will give me leave to make a statement on the matter at a later hour of today. 
1 am aware that there will be a considerable carry over in the wine grape harvest. It has been estimated by the Department of Primary Industry that the harvest will be in the vicinity of 350,000 tons. lt has been estimated also thai the intake by the wineries will be in the vicinity of just over 300,000 tons, which more or less coincides with the figure given by the  President  of the Federal Wine and Brandy Producers Council of Australia Incorporated. I can say to the honourable senator only that there has been an interdepartmental inquiry into this matter and at the present time the Minister for Primary Industry has commissioned an independent committee of inquiry headed by Professor Grant from the University of Tasmania. I am aware of the action taken by the South Australian Government some 7 years ago. I think that the best suggestion I can offer the honourable senator at this moment is that I will draw the attention of the Minister  for  Primary Industry to the action taken by the South Australian Government and put to him that perhaps he could ask Professor Grant and his committee to have a look at this matter and see what they may come up with in the way of suggestions whereby the Commonwealth can give assistance to the industry. 
The laser beam delivery system was introduced to give greater accuracy and to help with pinpoint bombing for the use of conventional bombs, lt has been tried out in Vietnam. My Department has watched these studies closely, both in Vietnam and in America. The system has nothing to do with nuclear bombs. Yesterday, the honourable senator got me into a situation where he was asking me about conventional bombs and he tied this up with nuclear bombs. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Australian Wool Commission advises that since October 1970, the following woolselling brokers' charges have increased by the amounts shown: 
Warehousing - 
New South Wales, Queensland, Victoria, South Australia - 0.49c per kg. 
Western Australia - 0.60c per kg. 
Tasmania - 0.38c per kg. 
Interlotting - 
Western Australia - 5.0c per bale 
Other States - no charge 
Classing - 
Skirted fleece- 
Western Australia - 0.22c per kg. 
In other States charges have been reduced by 0.45c to 0.66c per kg. 
Unskilled fleece and other wool - 
New South Wales - 0.66c per kg. 
Victoria and Western Australia - 1.09c per kg. 
Queensland - 0.22c per kg. 
Tasmania - 0.44c per kg. 
South Australia - charge reduced by  0.22c per kg. 
Bulk Classing - 
Skirted fleece- 
New South Wales - 0.22c per kg. 
Victoria and South Australia - 0.65c per kg. 
Queensland - 1.54c per kg. 
Western Australia - 1.10c per kg. 
Tasmania - no change 
Unskirted fleece and other wool - 
New South Wales - 2.21c per kg. 
Victoria and South Australia - 1.99c per kg. 
Queensland - 2.43c per kg. 
Western Australia - no change 
Tasmania - 0.88c per kg. 
Star Classing - 
Western Australia - 0.22c per kg. 
Queensland - no change 
In other States reductions of between 0.18c and 0.22c per kg. 
Blending - 
New South Wales and Western Australia - 0.22c per kg. 
Queensland - no change 
In other States reduced by 0.22c per kg. 
Weight Adjusting - 
All States - 50c per bale 
Prior to the increases since October 1970, the  last adjustments to the majority of these charges were made in 1964 and 1966. (2). No. The increases in a number of woolselling brokers' charges since October 1970 reflect the general rise in costs throughout the economy and it should be noted that in many cases charges were reduced. Indeed, recently balance sheets of several wool-selling brokers have revealed a substantial reduction in the profitability of wool broking. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
In addition to a loan made available to the Australian Wool Commission for working capital by the trading banks in 1970-71, the Government negotiated with the trading banks a further loan of $30m for this financial year for the same purpose on the basis that it will be repaid not later than 30th April 1972. The interest rate is 6.5 per cent per annum. 
The Government is in close and regular consultation with the Wool Commission on the Commission's actual and planned disposals of its wool. The Wool Commission's present policy on sales from stock is that it will only offer for sale types of wool which are not available or are in short supply on the auction market. This approach is designed to ensure that sales of wool from stocks will not depress the auction market. The disposal policy is under constant review and modifications will be made as circumstances warrant. 
The Government has already done a great deal to assist the wool growing industry in its present difficulties and it will continue to make the most strenuous efforts to revitalise the industry. A top level inter-departmental committee is presently examining the wool industry's problems as a matter of urgency. When the Committee's report is available and the Government has also received the considered views of the wool industry it will formulate further policies designed to bring long-term solutions to the industry's problems. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Australian Dairy Produce Board has advised that had the butteroil which was sold by Australia to overseas milk plants in 1970-71 been sold in the United Kingdom in the form of butter the extra return to the Equalisation pool on the quantity of butteroil involved would have been 15.6 cents per lb butterfat. 
However the Board has pointed out that in assessing the significance of these markets to the industry there are other important considerations involved apart from the immediate return. The  sales 1o milk reconstitution plants in South-East Asia were commenced tcn years ago as pari of. a deliberate policy by the industry of seeking out and encouraging the development of alternative markets as an insurance against Britain's entry into the EEC. 
Iiic South-East Asian markets are not able to absorb butler and cheese in the same manner as the United Kingdom market and as a consequence it has been necessary over the years to develop specialised products to meet their requirements. 
The development of the markets for butteroil to milk reconstitution plants has at the same time led to the development of worthwhile markets for skimmed milk powder which is further consideration in assessing the significance of these markets to the industry. In 1970-71 the Board exported 13.064 tons of butteroil and 35,987 tons of skimmed milk powder to milk reconstitution plants in South-East Asia. Prior to 1970-71 the Board's South-East Asian plants paid higher prices to Australia for butteroil and skimmed milk powder than other markets which were under heavy pressure from EEC supplies at subsidised prices. 
As well as participating in the profits of the plants wilh which the Board is associated the industry has been securing for itself through the medium of this trade a firm position for the future in Smith-East Asian markets in competition with other major dairy exporting countries. Whereas prior to 1963-64 Australia supplied less than 3 per cent of the canned milk market in SouthEast Asia, by 1970-71 the market shares of the Board's joint venture operations in the respective markets were: Cambodia 95 per cent; Manila 15 per cent; Indonesia 80 per cent; and Thailand 50 per cent. 
I cannot recall any statement made by either myself or the Minister for Defence on this matter, but 1 draw the honourable senator's attention to a joint statement made by the Minister for Defence and myself in which we indicated that the Commonwealth Government had decided to continue with the Fill contract at a price of $US344m. The Commonwealth has paid to the United States Government approximately $US228.8m, which leaves about $US1 15.14m to be pa:d on the project. My officers have informed me that following the decision on revaluation the estimated saving to us on that sum of $US 115.14m is about $A2.5m. 
There is a tactical air command wing in Britain. It has been there since September 1970. It consists of 3 squadrons of Fill aircraft, which would be well over 70 aircraft. From all the information available to me, these aircraft have given better service than any other aircraft known at the present time. Dealing with the second part of the question, to my knowledge something like 415 Fills have flown up to the present time. 
Everywhere, yes. Of this number 407 have been accepted by the United States Air Force. They have been flown for a total of some 150,000 hours, involving about 50,000 flights. Their safety record over that period is better than that for any of the other aircraft in the F century series. This includes the Phantom F4Es which we have in this country. So from this background which I have just given, I believe that there is no other aircraft in the world that can match the Fill at the present time. This is borne out by the reliable operational service that they are giving in the NATO Forces. 
As far as I am aware, the committee in the Department of Defence, comprising members of the Departments of the Army, Supply and Air, is still meeting to see whether there is a military need for this aircraft and whether that need is in the Air Force, or the Army. A meeting, as far as I am aware, was held last Tuesday afternoon. That deals wilh the question as it relates to the Department of Supply. But as Minister for Air, perhaps I should say to the Senate that the Royal Australian Air Force does not at this time have a specific requirement for an aircraft of the type of Project N, either to help in its own operations or to help in the operations of the Army which it carries out for the Army. The honourable senator will be aware that at the present time we have in operation helicopters and Caribou aircraft, for direct army support and we also have 20 DC3 aircraft still operating at various air bases. So we really have a capability to assist the operations of the Army, and also a capability to meet our own transport requirements for the present. Nevertheless, this committee is looking at where we can use Project N. But, until it establishes that there is a military need, I cannot say anything further. 
-BROCKM AN - I would say no at this stage, but I am not aware of the facts outlined by the honourable senator. 1 will find out. Discussions are going on continually between the brokers, the wool industry and the Government on WOOl handling matters. I shall certainly make inquiries and provide the honourable senator with an answer to his question. 
I understand that late in December the tug Tusker' reported that there was a possible shoal in the vicinity of Port Stanvac. I understand also that the Department of the Navy sent out a general Australian navigation warning signal. This has since been repromulgated by the Australian Notice to Mariners. So shippers should be aware of the situation. At present the survey vessel HMAS 'Moresby' is in South Austraiian waters, and I understand that it has been asked to carry out a full investigation into the matter during the survey period. This will be done. The only other information that I can give the honourable senator is that the port superintendent at Stanvac has been informed of the situation and is well aware of it. 
1 shall have a look at the question and see what information is available. I shall give it to the honourable senator if I can do so. 
The answer, right across the board, is no. 
The reputation of the Australian wool industry is based on fine wools. I think the honourable senator realises this. Wools used in carpets are generally the stronger type wools, mostly down in the counts of 40 or 46. This wool is generally found in Britain and New Zealand. This is the reason why, in the main, wools from overseas are used in the manufacture of carpets. 
In my answer to the honourable senator last Thursday I said that the Royal Australian Air Force had no immediate need of this aircraft in the transport role. I specifically indicated that the military need for this aircraft was still under consideration by the Department of Defence. Since that time the statements made by the Minister for Defence and the Minister for the Army in commenting on my reply have confirmed that the purely Army needs of this aircraft are still to be determined. Until the investigation is completed by the Department of Defence 1 do not think the Government is in a position to decide what the requirements will be. I point out to the honourable senator that the Government will take a decision on this aircraft when all appropriate tests have been completed and when the military need has been determined. As the Minister for Defence has said, an evaluation will be completed some time in April. 
The honourable senator has quoted only part of my answer because 1 referred to Caribou aircraft and to helicopters and said that these aircraft were used in a transport role. ] added that we also had 20 DC3 aircraft at various bases throughout Australia. I am quite sure - I have said this publicly before - that Project N could perform a very vital role in the transport sector, both militarily and commercially, but at the present time the Royal Australian Air Force has not a requirement for this aircraft. This afternoon I have gone on and said that both the Minister for Defence and the Minister for the Army have said that the Department of Defence was investigating the matter to see whether there is a military need as far as the Army is concerned. The latter part of the honourable senator's question refers to the age of the DC3 aircraft. I cannot say when they were brought into the inventory of the RAAF but I will make inquiries on that aspect. 
On 22nd February  Senator Wriedt  asked me a question relating to allegations of mistreatment of a Launceston Royal Australian Air Force trainee. I now have the following reply to  Senator Wriedt's  question: 
Allegations were made last month of improper treatment of aRAAF apprentice, James Peter Jacob, at RAAF 'Laverton', during his period of service in the RAAF from 4th January 1972 to 10th January 1972. As a result of these allegations 
I  directed that a RAAF court of inquiry be set up and this was convened on 12th January 1972 to investigate and report on the allegations. In particular the court was required to investigate allegations that Apprentice Jacob was subject to improper treatment in the apprentice living-in quarters at Royal Australian Air Force Base Laverton' on Sunday, 9th January 1972, and to inquire whether Air Force procedures in relation to Apprentice Jacob were inadequately or improperly followed and whether any circumstances indicated that he was not treated in accordance with Air Force Orders and acceptable Air Force procedures. 
I should perhaps at the outset emphasise that the RAAF docs not and will not tolerate any physically violent, degrading or bullying behaviour towards any of its members, especially its junior members, and there are strict instructions forbidding personnel to lake part in initiation ceremonies. The court of inquiry has taken evidence on oath from officers, NCO's and airmen at the RAAF School of Radio, from ex-apprentice Jacob and his father, and from officers at RAAF Laverton' and Headquarters Support Command, and the court's reports and findings are now to hand, including a covering report and comments by the Air Offices Commanding, RAAF Support Command. 
In relation to its inquiry, the court has established that Apprentice Jacob was subjected to the following: 
He was forced to make the bed of a second year apprentice; 
He was asked a question relating to personal habits; 
He was required to pay respect to second year apprentices by standing up in the presence of second year apprentices and continually being required to say 'excuse me leading upapperentice . 
He was about to be hosed in the shower room after a number of otherfirst year apprentices had been hosed. The duty NCO arrived in time to prevent this action. 
The court ascertained that the majority of first year apprentices were required to participate in these events or incidents, and that whilst some apprentices did indicate mild resentment at their participation in the above events, the larger majority considered them to be horseplay or good fun. I should inform the Senate that Apprentice Jacob first reported for duty to the RAAF at Laverton' on 4th January 1972 to commence his training as a member of No. 26 Radio Apprentice Course. The day after he arrived he informed RAAF Radio School authorities that he had made a mistake in joining the RAAF and wished to be discharged. Whilst arrangements were under way to effect his discharge from the RAAF, which took place on the 10th January 1972, the events whichI have referred to earlier took place on the 9th January 1972. 
During the course of the inquiry the court became aware of reports of improper incidents and procedures concerning other apprentices at RAAF School of Radio. As a result the terms of reference of the court were extended to investigate these reports. As a result of these further inquiries the Air Officer Commanding Support Command has advised me that certain initiation practices were imposed on first year apprentices by second year apprentices at RAAF School of Radio despite specific orders to the contrary and that disciplinary action is to be taken against a number of leading apprentices. 
The Air Board has expressed its concern to me on the position and has assured me that existing orders and instructions which prohibit initiation ceremonies or happenings of this nature will be repromulgated and that it will be re-emphasised in the strongest terms to all concerned that these practices will not be tolerated. The Board has also assured me that apart from these incidents at the RAAF School of Radio, there is nothing to suggest that such practices are in operation at other RAAF training units. 
I have accepted these assurances of the Air Board and whilst one cannot be sure that isolated instances will not arise in the future, I can assure the Senate that the matter will be closely watched and that firm disciplinary action will be taken should it be necessary in the future. 
This is a development warranting the most serious concern. I have already spelled out publicly on a number of occasions - and do not repeat here - the economic and social consequences, both in the short term and in the long term, which a continuation of the present trend in prices would bring in its train. 1 do repeat, however, that while there are other factors also operating, it is incontrovertible that the mainspring of our present inflationary problem is the continuing excessive rise in wage and salary costs. 
From what I have said, it will be apparent that the detailed review of the  economy  indicated that the economy was likely to continue growing steadily in the months ahead. Nonetheless, after careful consideration the Government recognised (hut there was now scope for some moderate improvement in that performance. In particular, wc took the view that, while the trend in unemployment had pretty well flattened out over recent months, scope existed for some further stimulus to the level of activity designed to make doubly sure of our objective of maintaining a high level of employment. It was with these considerations in mind that the Government took the significant policy actions announced this month - actions which complemented the other measures taken in the months preceding. 
It is not, of course, sufficient merely to state objectives. The test must bc in terms of action taken. The actions which we have taken to ensure that our objectives are achieved are there for all to see. Those actions have provided the clearest possible evidence of the Government's flexibility in responding to emerging economic trends. In taking them we have provided a measured response to changing circumstances in a dynamic, flexible, continually moving economy and one which, during the period in question, has been more than usually subject to uncertainty. Lest there be any doubt upon that aspect, let me recall the measures which the Government has taken over recent months. These measures have been carefully weighed and pondered. They will, we arc convinced, guard against any possibility that growth in the economy might slacken over the coming months, with consequent adverse effects on the demand for labour. But they are, at the same time, measures which will not so propel the economy that we would jeopardise such hard-won success as we have so far had in reducing the inflationary pressures. As the Prime Minister has recently said, in this respect we have a norrow path to tread, but we must tread it. 
Overall, the decisions announced by the Prime Minister at the Premiers Conference, together with other fiscal action taken since the Budget, is estimated to add about $l22m to Commonwealth Budget outlays in the current financial year. These measures have been on various fronts. They have been directed not only at the general objective of maintaining the momentum of growth but also at certain particular problems within the total framework of the economy. Grants to ameliorate rural unemployment are an important example of this latter kind of measure. Again, the Government proposes that unemployment and associated benefits will be increased substantially. These rates had not been adjusted since 1969 and, for that and other reasons, there is no doubt that the increases now proposed are both desirable and justified. 1 refer next to our decision to restore the special investment allowance on manufacturing plant and equipment. Although the major determinant of investment expenditure is the expected growth of demand relative to existing capacity, we have had it put to us strongly from many quarters that the restoration of the allowance would be most effective in boosting confidence and stimulating activity. We have accepted that view. Certainly, the decision to restore the allowance has elicited widespread expressions of support. 
In December the Government, as I mentioned earlier, introduced a scheme of grants to the States for employment-creating activities in non-metropolitan areas, lt was an important step, designed to attack directly the severe and largely structural unemployment problem in these areas arising in major part out of the longer-term difficulties facing some of our rural industries. While the scheme has already made an important contribution towards alleviating this structural problem of rural unemployment, the evidence already available indicates that more could be done in this field. In particular, several of the State Premiers pointed out to us that they could quickly and effectively allocate larger amounts under this scheme to urgent and useful works. We therefore agreed with the Premiers that the monthly rate of these grants be increased from $2. 25m to $4. 5m as from the beginning of February. In terms of annual rates this means that, pending the review of the scheme which was in any case scheduled for June, expenditure on the scheme will for the coming months bc at the rale of $54m per annum. One particularly serious effect of the rapid rise in State governmental wage costs which occurred in 1970-71 was that State loan funds had to bc used for current budgetary purposes and, for that reason as well as because of the rising costs themselves, a number of important State works had to be deferred. In 1971-72 also, total public authority capital expenditure is growing more slowly in constant price terms than public expenditure overall. 
With these facts in mind the Government proposed to the Premiers last week some increase in the State works and housing programmes and the semi-government borrowing programmes. After detailed discussion, it was agreed to increase the works and housing programmes by S32m, including an increase of $9.3m in the interest-free capital grant component, and to increase the semi-government borrowing programmes by SI Om. The Premiers have given us their assurance that these additional funds will, as far as possible, be utilised quickly to provide increased employment on worthwhile public works projects, of which, of course, there is no lack, particularly in the urban areas. 
In addition to these various measures, which should have a relatively quick and direct impact on economic activity and employment, it was also agreed that additional revenue grants of $15m will be provided to the States in 1971-72, and that a special advance of $ 17.5m will be made to New South Wales on 30 June this year in recognition of its particular Budget difficulties. Although the budgetary positions of the States vary from case to case, these amounts will assist them all, either in undertaking additional expenditure or, in the case of those experiencing budgetary difficulties, in allowing them to carry on without the need for additional restrictive measures. 
Economic policy actions have not been limited to the fiscal front. Let me recall the important monetary policy measures which have been taken over the last few months. The casing of monetary policy started in fact as long ago as last October. In that month the Reserve Bank, after due consultation with the Prime Minister and myself, informed the trading banks that there would be no objection to some increase in their lending. This was the first step towards the removal of the relatively firm restraints which had been placed on bank lending - both by Reserve Bank requests and by liquidity constraints - for quite a significant period. 
Although in the following months bank liquidity was increasing strongly, we recognised that some banks, for a number of reasons, regarded their liquidity prospects as uncertain. We thought it necessary, therefore, to allay any concern that banks might have in this regard. A large release - involving about $132m - from major trading banks' statutory reserve deposits was effected in December. This reduction in the statutory reserve deposits ratio, from 8.9 per cent to 7.1 per cent, was accompanied by advice to the banks that it would now be appropriate for all existing restraints on bank lending to be removed, lt allowed not only the replenishment of banks' term loan funds and farm development loan funds, but also provided additional funds for an increase in general lending. 
In taking this step we also had in mind another important objective, namely our desire to allow the banks to play their full part in financing the private sector. This objective was also relevant to the precise application of the decisions taken earlier this month to reduce the level of trading bank interest rates. The reduction of onehalf per cent in most bank lending rates and the commensurate reductions in bank deposit rates were, of course, effected principally with our broader short term monetary policy objectives in mind. The opportunity was taken, however to modify somewhat the existing bank interest rate arrangements with the longer term objective of providing banks with a greater degree of competitive flexibility in their operations. The easing of monetary policy has not been restricted to the banking sector. It has also been reflected in the Government securities market and particularly in the very significant reductions which have been effected in yields on Government securities since last September. Since the September loan, bond yields at the shorter end have been reduced by about 1.2 per cent and the long term bond rate by 1 per cent. In the February loan which has just closed, the long term bond rate was brought down by 0.7 per cent compared with the comparable rate offered last November. 
The position is that interest rates on short and medium term Government securities are now significantly lower than the rates which prevailed prior to the sharp increases in rates in the April-May period of 1970. The long term rate has returned to the level operating at that time. The commensurate reductions in yields on treasury notes mean that these yields are now at their lowest level since May 1969. There is. in other words, no more sign of rigidity in the Government's policy in this field than in others. The reductions in yields on Government securities were intended to have - and they are having - effects on private interest rates, and thereby upon the costs of finance to the private sector. Over and above that, also, we have had in mind the effects the bond yield reductions would have in ensuring that financial conditions were not a restraining factor on the economy in the 'later months of the financial year, the period when there is normally a seasonal contraction of liquidity. 
The effects of these measures are already being reflected in financial markets. Monetary conditions are currently very easy. The private sector and the banks are in a very liquid position. Private interest ra:es have a,Iso fallen with the reductions in official interest rates, and they can be expected to fall further in coming months. In short, financial conditions are very conducive to increased activity in the economy, both on the consumer side and the investment side. This has been our aim. The monetary policy measures which have been taken over recent months add up in themselves to a significant package which is having, and will continue to have important direct and indirect effects on the economy. 
Having thus recalled all these measures in some detail, F believe f can go on to say that public reaction to them has been very favourable. At last week's Premiers Conference, all Premiers joined in congratulating the Government for its realistic and decisive action. This very pleasing unanimity, which is now a matter of record, reflected 1 believe the feeling of all present that the time had come to put an end to the air of pessimism with which, over previous weeks, we had become all too familiar. Industrial and business leaders have also warmly welcomed the Government's measures. Indeed, I believe there has been general agreement In the community that these measures will strengthen business confidence and provide a stimulus to economic activity generally. Judging by its performance today, even the Opposition has found it hard to be critical - at any rate in any constructive fashion. 
Most of what I have said so far has been in relation to our growth and employment objectives. It must also be made plain, however, that the Government cannot, and will not, down tools in the pursuit of its other major objective, which is the checking of inflation. The Government has, of course, implemented a wide range of policies to that end. It must be clearly recognised that these policies have nol as yet met with more than limited success. We cannot close our eyes to that unpleasant fact, for fact it is. This does not mean, however, that we should give up the battle. On the contrary, we realise fully that once the inflationary enemy has become entrenched, the battle is bound to be long-drawn out. I think it is important, therefore, to outline what the Government's policies have been in regard to inflation. 1 referred earlier to the steps aimed at rectifying the strained conditions of the economy of 12 and 18 months ago. Action was necessary to ensure that pressures, including those arising from the ultra-tight conditions in the labour market which prevailed throughout 1970 and into 1971, were eased. This needs to be done, because it is common ground to all those who approach these questions thoughtfully that while conditions of that kind exist, efforts to control inflation will not succeed. There is nothing surprising about that. For such conditions are conducive to the exercise of unbridled industrial strength by powerful union groups; to the rapid passing on of cost increases - and sometimes more - in higher prices; to bottlenecks and delivery delays and all the other signs which, each in its small way, points to a falling away of overall standards of efficiency and real productivity. 
The Commonwealth's direct powers in the control of wages are, of course, limited. But we are doing what we can, as a government, to oppose excessive wage claims wherever the opportunity arises. In recent months the Commonwealth has intervened in major cases before the Arbitration Commission for the purpose of ensuring that the public interest is given full weight in the decisions the Commission hands down. We shall be doing so again in the national wage case which has got under way again this week. I will say no more about that case while the hearing proceeds. 
I emphasise that these actions are being taken within the framework of our arbitral machinery. That machinery, of course, must be subject to overhaul from time to time, and I. therefore mention in that connection the review of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act which has been in hand now for some time. This has. as one of its aims, a more efficient and relevant system of wage determination in the context of the modern Australian economy. 
But, of course, wage restraint is not the whole answer. The Government has never stated that it was. We have also been seeking, as a matter of some urgency, to find ways of strengthening competition within the economy, to ensure that pricing decisions are made  in  a more competitive atmosphere. One major step towards this objective is the broad review of the tariff which is under way. Tn regard to internal competitive forces we introduced some time ago legislation prohibiting the practice of resale price maintenance. In the light of subsequent experience with that legislation we expect to bring forward in the current parliamentary session more effective legislation  in  the area of restrictive trade practices. 
These, and other measures such as those directed at increasing productivity in the economy, are longer term  in  character. But they are essential elements in any policy aimed at inflation which is to have any hope of lasting success. What they also demonstrate is that the Government has taken a broad approach in its policies against inflation. But broad though I believe our approach has been, it cannot be gainsaid that we have placed particular emphasis upon resisting, to the extent of our powers to do so, excessive rises  in  wage and salary rates. We have  done  so for a good reason. For, however unpalatable the point may  be  in the eyes of some,  it  is perfectly clear that excessively rising wage and salary rates are the major, though certainly not the sole, influence behind the over-rapid rate of increase in prices. From that it follows that, from any practical viewpoints, attention has had to be focused on rising wages if there is to be any real prospect of dealing with inflation. 
Against that background, the Commonwealth believes that, in present circumstances, it has a particular obligation to ensure that wage and salary increases within the area of its own direct responsibility do not lead the way or contribute to the spreading of any new round of increases within the economy. As the Prime Minister put it in his opening statement to the Premiers Conference: 
We recognise, however, that we cannot hope to exercise a significant influence (in urging private employers to resist extravagant claims for increased wages and improved conditions) if there is any widespread feeling among businessmen that we are not, in fact, exercising restraint within the areas open to our direct influence - the Public Service and the various Commonwealth statutory bodies. 
It is with this in mind that the Government has announced its opposition to flow-on within the Commonwealth Public Service or Commonwealth instrumentalities of the 9 per cent increase granted to administrative and clerical staff within the Victorian Public Service and the State Government instrumentalities. Our opposition will, of course, take place within the provisions of the Public Service Arbitration Act, and within that Act we will put our case relating to this matter at appropriate stages of the arbitral process. I emphasise that this new step, which we recognise to be a serious one, is directed only at ensuring that, as far as possible, the new round of increases which began in Victoria should be quarantined to that State. The damage already done there must not, in other words, spread further. 
I emphasise that the processes of arbitration are regarded by the Government as an essential element of the wage fixing procedures in this country. They have a long history of serving Australia well in the past. The Government believes that they must be preserved and strengthened to continue to serve us well in the future. Those processes, when functioning as they should do, are even-handed toward all and ensure fair treatment for the weak. In times of inflation, when it is the weak who go  10  the wall, that is a very important consideration. The Government does not attempt, therefore, to interfere in the free and independent exercise of their functions by the arbitral authorities. What it does do - and it has not only a right but also, in the public interest, a duty in this connection - is to point out to the arbitral authorities the facts of the economic situation, and the consequences of their decisions for the economy and the community. The final decisions in the particular matters which are before them, however, must be, and of course are, taken by the arbitral authorities, who carry the responsibility for them. 
I have outlined in this statement the essential results of a recent detailed assessment of the economy and its prospects. That assessment has provided evidence of the current underlying strength of the economy and its potential for growth. 1 have tried to place the employment situation and prospect clearly in perspective. At the same time, I have referred to certain problem spots, the most serious being the inflationary problem that we currently face. Iri stating once again the Government's main economic policy objectives, 1. have reiterated our firm commitment to achieving a steady rate of economic growth while at the same time maintaining a high level of employment. Equally firm, however, is our commitment to tackle the problem of inflation. 
The Government's actions which 1 have outlined have been evidence, and have been recognised as such, of its firm intentions to achieve these objectives. The Government believes that those actions measure up to the criteria of flexibility, consistency and adequacy by which economic management should be judged. I am not saying that such policies, even though sound, will achieve all the nation's objectives. They are an essential requirement in this regard, but they may not be a sufficient one. The achievement of our objectives will also require the co-operation and determination of the community to provide full support to these policies. 
From the viewpoint of the community, 2 important things stand out from what I have said. Firstly, there is no reason for a lack of confidence in the economy. This, 1 think, is now being recognised, and it means among other things that members of the business community can make their decisions with full confidence in the continued steady growth of the economy. Secondly, it is clear that inflation is today our major problem. It is a problem which cannot be ignored or be expected to go away. The tackling of inflation is the responsibility of every person in the community and it is in everyone's long term interests. Bearing this responsibility will not be easy; but doing so will mean we will achieve our objectives more quickly and the cost to everyone will be less. 
 I move: 
That the Bill bc now read a second lime. The purpose of this Bill is to amend the Dairy Produce Export Control Act 1924- 1966 to clarify the existing investment provisions to ensure that the Australian Dairy Produce Board is provided with investment powers related to its present day needs and circumstances. The amendment relates to the initiative taken by the Board in the early 1960s with the approval of the Government, in establishing milk recombining plants in the South East Asian area. The Board entered into this activity as a commercial venture in association with local capital with the aim of diversifying export markets for Australian dairy products when Britain was making its first bid for membership of the European Economic Community. The Board's efforts in this direction have proved lo be far sighted and are particularly significant in the light of recent developments in Europe which could result in the loss of the United Kingdom market for our dairy products in the nol far distant future. 
The Board has established milk plants in conjunction with local interests in Singapore, Manila, Bangkok, Djakarta and Phnom Penh. While the Board has disposed of its capital equity in the Singapore plant it is continuing to supply raw materials to the plant. Since 1963 the Board has shipped butteroil and skim milk powder to the plants valued at $36m. The Board estimates that in 1971-72 about 10,000 tons of butter in the form of butteroil and 30,000 tons of skim milk powder worth some $15m will be shipped. Apart from providing a significant outlet for Australian dairy products the Board's plants are playing an important role in the development of food technology in the South East Asian region and in providing nutritious dairy products for the people of the area. The joint plant ventures have also done much to foster goodwill between Australia and the countries concerned. 
The finance for the Board's participation in these ventures has mainly been drawn from the Dairy Industry Stabilization Fund which consists of industry funds that were built up under the post war contracts with the United Kingdom. The Fund is dealt with by the Dairying Industry Act which provides that monies in the Fund may be applied by the Board in such manner as it thinks fit for any purpose approved by the Minister. To date the Board has invested a total of $5,918,000 in the plants- $2,400,000 in the form of share capital and $3,518,000 as loans for equipment, working capital and raw materials. These investments have included profits from the plant operations which have been used progressively to develop the existing plants and to establish new plants. However the point has been reached where the Board may not be able to depend on the Dairy Industry Stabilization Fund to finance fully its plant activities. 
The Dairy Produce Export Control Act under which the Australian Dairy Produce Board is constituted provides that the Board may, with the approval of the Minister, take action to expand existing markets or to secure new markets for dairy products. The Act also provides in general terms that the Board may use monies in its accounts for this purpose. The purpose of the amendment is to clarify these general provisions to provide the Board with the specific power to participate in commercial ventures as a means of expanding existing markets or securing new markets. For this purpose the Board will be enabled to use monies in its accounts other than monies borrowed from the Reserve Bank to acquire equity capital and make loans, lt is important that there be no barrier in the way of the Board developing Asian outlets for dairy produce in the light of the EEC developments. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator O'Byrne)  adjourned. 
 First, 1 thank  Senator O'Byrne, Senator Bishop  and  Senator Wriedt  for their interest in the matter that they have raised. 1 say categorically, to them that  I  have very strong feelings about physically violent, degrading and bullying behaviour in the Royal Australian Air Force. Following the incidents at the Royal Military College, Duntroon, 1 made it quite clear to the Chief of the Air Staff that I wished all officers, NCOs and airmen in the Air Force to understand my feelings on this matter. Orders were promulgated throughout the RAAF to this . effect. It was because of the reports on the matters which  Senator O'Byrne  read tonight that I directed that an RAAF inquiry should  be  held into this matter. 
A court of inquiry was appointed. Evidence on oath was taken from officers, NCOs and airmen at the RAAF radio school; from officers, NCOs and airmen at Laverton; and officers from the headquarters of Support Command in Melbourne. 
Evidence was taken also from ex-apprentice Jacob and from his father. A copy of all the evidence submitted to the court, together with the findings of the court, then were sent to the Air Officer Commanding Support Command in Melbourne who added his own comments to the evidence and to the court's findings and sent the material on to me. I have read all the evidence, the court's findings, and the report of the Air Officer Commanding Support Command. I have discussed this matter with the Chief of the Air Staff and with the head of my Department. I have has assurances from the Air Board, as the report sets out, that orders will go out again to all bases saying that this sort of behaviour will not be tolerated and particularly it will not be tolerated amongst the younger apprentices. I have the assurance of the Air Board that this will be done. As  1  say in the last paragraph of my statement, while  1  have these assurances we cannot be sure that, from time to time, other incidents will not occur. I hope that they will not. 
I say to  Senator O'Byrne  that I appointed the court of inquiry. The evidence and the findings of that court have been sent to me. I have lifted out of those findings of the court practically the whole of my report. So, what honourable senators read in the findings is more or less what is in that report. I turn to the procedure that  1  took in the Senate when presenting my statement. I had promised  Senator Wriedt,  in answer to a question on the first day of the current sessional period, that I would try to give him the information that he was seeking. I thought that, by doing it this way, because he is a senator from Tasmania I was probably doing the right thing. If I have failed to do the right thing, I apologise to the Senate. Unfortunately, when I came to read my statement,  Senator Wriedt  was called to the telephone. Because he was not here, I was asked by the Senate whether I would incorporate my statement in Hansard. This I did. But I made copies of it available so that one was sent to each honourable senator. 
Having said that, I turn to some of the points that  Senator Bishop  raised. I recognise the points that he mentioned and I take them aboard. The present practice is for any airman to be able to approach his superior officers, right up to the Air Board level, to put his grievance. If the Air Board does not uphold his redress of grievance, he can then address it to the Minister for Air. In the case of officers, they can then go to the Governor-General. Since I have been Minister for Air I could not count on my two hands the number of times I have appeared at the Executive Committee to put redress of grievance on behalf of an officer or airman for some reason. 
Every airman has the opportunity to go to the padre or to the welfare officer to put his point.  Senator Wheeldon  will tell the honourable senator that, from the experience he has had with the case he took up with me on this matter. We do everything we can. Finally, I say that every wife or mother or father or someone else on behalf of the serving airman has the opportunity to write to me. I receive on my desk every day letters from wives, mothers or fathers asking me to look into some sort of problem that the airman might have. It might be a problem con-: cerning a posting or some small personal problem that the airman might have with the RAAF. I believe, backed by my experience as Minister for Air, that every airman has the opportunity to air his grievance. As far as I know, and as far as I can ascertain by examination of the problems that have been put before me, every airman has had a pretty fair go. If such a. person does not think he has had a fair go, he can get someone to take up the case on his behalf and I will certainly have a look at it. I will leave the matter at that. If members of the Opposition believe that they would like to take up specific points of my report with me, I will be glad to have a discussion with them to see what I can do. But, in response to the request of  Senator O'Byrne,  I do not believe that I could table the findings of the court on the evidence that was given. The honourable senator might say that I should do that. If he wants to take that action. I am agreeable to looking into the matter to see how far I can go. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I am not too sure whether the first part of what the honourable senator says is correct. I am well aware of the correctness of the second part of his question. I will take the matter up with the Minister for Primary Industry and whatever answer he gives me I will convey to the honourable senator. 
As I explained to the honourable senator earlier this week, the stronger wools which are needed for carpet manufacture are not produced in Australia in great quantities. Generally these stronger wools come from the British breeds of sheep and, therefore, quantities of the stronger type wools are imported into Australia for carpet making. It is possible to make carpets from the finer Australian wools, but I understand that after a certain amount of wear the fibres tend to lie down. 
I would have to get further information on the research that has been undertaken, but I should think that there has been a great deal of research into this problem. As I am not sure of the position I shall take the opportunity to find out and I shall let the honourable senator have whatever information I am able to obtain. 
It is true, as  Senator Willesee  has said, that the Government originally planned for 6 of the 24 aircraft to be used for reconnaissance purposes. Since that time, however, the Royal Australian Air Force has been examining the matter. If the honourable senator looks at the joint statement made by the Minister for Defence and myself on 16th December last following the Government's decision to go ahead with the procurement of the Fill aircraft, he will note that we said that a modern reconnaissance capability was still a requirement to be considered but that investigations were not yet completed and the RAAF was not yet in a position to make a recommendation to the Government. We went on. to say that the investigations would embrace the feasibility of Australia's participation in the development and manufacture of reconnaissance packs for the F111C. In answer to a question earlier in this sessional period I said that we had the alternative of adding the pack ro the F111C or of looking at the Phantom F4E and perhaps adding a pack of some kind to that aircraft. However, as I have said, the Department is still carrying out its investigations and until they are completed I am not in a position to answer the honourable senator's question any further. 
 I do not know whether the figures  Senator Primmer  gave are correct: but the information I have in my hand is very different from that which he has just given. The Netherlands was the only country in the European Economic Community area in which the cow herd increased. In regard to butter production, in the EEC dairy production areas the figure in 1968 was 1,408,000 tons. In 1969 production fell to 1,348,000 tons. In 1970 it fell by approximately 44,000 tons. In 1971 the figure was 1,250.000 tons. So there has been a considerable fall in that area alone. That fall has been approximately 200,000 tons. For 1969-70 Australia had a total production of 220,000 tons. The dairying industry believed that that figure would cause production problems and that something would have to be done about it. Tn 1970- 71 Australia's total fell to 193,000 tons. So the demand built up in Europe but at the same time there was a fall in production in Australia. That is why we had a ready export trade for our surplus butter. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
 Senator Turnbull  made 3 points in his submission to the Senate tonight. The first was that 2 questions have been on the notice paper since 6th April and 12th May last year. Neither of them is in his name. Strangely enough,  Mr President,  both questions are directed to a Minister whom I represent in this chamber. Strangely enough, before coming into the Senate tonight I went through the notice paper with my staff looking at questions on notice for which answers are outstanding. All I can promise the honourable senator is that I will direct this matter to the attention of the Minister  in whose  name these questions stand and try to get answers for the honourable  senators concerned. 
-I  would agree. 
 It is an undue delay. This has to be looked into.I think that all Ministers in this place who represent other Ministers endeavour to get quick answers to questions on notice. These questions have been outstanding for far too long.  Senator Turnbull  then referred to the fact that he tried to see certain Ministers. He did not name she Ministers. I would say that the Ministers in this place are always available. . I think that the experience of most honourable senators in this place has been that if they want to see a Senate Minister they are able to do so. 
 That is what 1 was saying.  Senator Turnbull  made a general complaint about all Ministers. Ministers in the Senate have to represent Ministers in the other place, yet they have time to see honourable senators. I do not think the accusation was fair because it was spread over the general field. However I will bring the matter to the attention of the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)aind  action will be up to him. As for the third matter raised by  Senator Turnbull,  I assure him that  1  will bring his remarks to the notice of the Leader of the Government when he returns next Tuesday. The matter comes within his portfolio. 
The honourable senator will realise that the laws relating to fishing in certain waters are administered by the Department of Primary Industry. Therefore, if there is a confrontation between trawlers in our northern waters  Or  if Australian trawlers have a need of assistance, the information is relayed to the Department of Primary Industry which passes it on to the Navy. In that event the nearest vessel in the area will go to the assistance of the trawler or to the point of the incident, wherever it may be, and will give whatever help it is legally permitted to provide. 
1 understand that mining rights were applied for but, since that time, those rights have been withdrawn. Oil exploration rights had existed but the State authorities were requested to cancel them. It is believed that applications to mine off-shore lime-sand deposits are currently lodged with the Western Australian Warden's Court. But the Commonwealth has entered an objection in the court against these applications. I understand that all early mineral leases that applied to Garden Island have been cancelled. 
I thought this arose out of a suggestion of the Queensland Egg Board. I have taken up this matter with the Department of Primary Industry. I believe that the Board was trying to point out how valueless it is, with the current large surplus, for producers to produce such vast quantities. If a producer wanted to get rid of a percentage of his eggs naturally he would cull the appropriate number of hens rather than feed the hens and destroy the eggs. 1 have further information on the subject. Last November representatives of the Department of Foreign Affairs and the Department of Primary Industry, together with representatives of the egg producers, informed the Indian Government's representative in Australia that Australia was prepared to offer stocks of eggs and egg powder to help to alleviate the food crisis in Bangla Desh. So I believe the Government has made some moves along the lines suggested by the honourable senator. However, I will have a look at his question and I shall speak to the Minister for Primary Industry about the honourable senator's suggestion. If any reply conies from the Minister I will pass it on to the honourable senator. 
Since I replied to the honourable senator's previous question information about this matter has come to my hands. He will recall that I spoke of the Government's efforts to provide eggs and egg powder for emergency aid to India and Bangla Desh. The information 1 have received is that the Red Cross in Dacca made an urgent request for 5,000 lb of egg powder for use in food aid programmes in Bangla Desh. In the light of the need for a large amount of this high protein food, Australia has undertaken to supply a total of 1 1 tons at a cost of $28,250. Tenders were called in the usual way and the contract was awarded on the basis of ability to supply the commodity speedily and economically. The order will be supplied by the New South Wales egg marketing authority except for 2,000 lb which will be provided by the Victorian Egg Marketing Board. That is the information 1 have. 
The honourable senator will be aware that only a fortnight ago there was a meeting of the Australian Agricultural Council at which this matter was discussed. At that meeting the Minister for Agriculture in Victoria said that his Government was not ready to introduce legislation to control egg production. Legislation of this kind has been introduced in Western Australia and from 1st July next there will be a compulsion on producers to reduce their egg production by 15 per cent. Legislation has been introduced in New South Wales and I understand that as soon as a poll among growers is completed the legislation will become operative. Tasmania has indicated that, should the need arise, it is prepared to introduce legislation, and the remainder of the mainland States are in agreement to introduce control measures. Until there is agreement among the States there is very little that the Commonwealth can do, other than keep calling the Ministers together in an endeavour to overcome the problem. 
Last Tuesday  Senator Milliner  asked me the following question: 
Will the Minister for Air make available to the Senate details of the use of any VIP aircraft which arrived in Brisbane on Wednesday, 2nd February 1972? in such details will he make known the lime and place of departure, the time of arrival and the names of passengers? 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
The only RAAF VIP aircraft to arrive in Brisbane on 2nd February 1972 was a Mystere which travelled from Canberra to Brisbane departing at 16.35 hours and arriving at 18.05 hours. The passengers were the  Deputy  Prime Minister,  Mr Anthony,  and  Mr Virtue. 
On 
Tuesday last,  Senator Primmer  asked me: 
Has an agreement been reached between the Government, the wool buyers and the Graziers' Association for the third price averaging plan pool to be wound up, for interlotting to be introduced or bulk class wools to he acquired and for there to bc no acquisition scheme for the remainder of the Australian clip? 
The Minister for Primary Industry has provided me with the following answer: 
The Australian Wool Commission has been working on a new lot building plan to replace the existing price averaging plan. The essential feature of the new plan is greater simplicity and reduced cost of operation and it has been prepared in consultation with the appropriate wool interests. 
I  understand that the new lot building plan is about  to  be submitted  to  the Government by the Commission for consideration. Tho future arrangements for the sale of  interlotted  and bulk-classed wool at auction will depend on the outcome of the Government's consideration. As far as an acquisition scheme for the Australian wool clip is concerned, this subject is being examined by special committees set up by both the Government and the wool industry. When the reports of these committees are available the matter wilt be considered by the Government. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  has asked that his matter be brought to a vote. I point out that on the notice paper under the heading of General Business there are 40 orders of the day which, at one time, or another, someone wants brought to a vote.  Senator Murphy's  order of the day is No. 34. It is all very well for  Senator Murphy  and  Senator Turnbull  to have an agreement that  Senator Turnbull  will stand aside from his position with Order of the Day No. 1 so that  Senator Murphy's  matter is brought from No. 34 to No. I. When I look at the notice paper I see that Order of the Day No. 2 is Commonwealth and State Revenue - proposed Joint Select Committee, adjourned debate from 7th May. 1970, on the motion by  Senator Little.  I find that the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  is in continuation. If  Senator Turnbull  does not want to go on with his order of the day then I see no reason why No. 2 cannot be brought on in its place. 
The Government opposes  Senator Murphy's  suggestion. It does not look on this matter as a Government Bill. Many of us have views which we would like to express. Up to date the Government's Parties have not had an opportunity to meet together and express their views on the Death Penalty Abolition Bill 1970. Morever, the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  is vitally interested in this Bill and he will be away from the sitting this evening. I believe that he should be here to hear the views of his Party before we come into this place to have a discussion. My Party had decided that it would like to have its Leader in the Party room while it carries out discussions and puts forward its views. Let us talk about democracy. Today, the Leader of the Opposition and I have had discussions on how we will arrange the business of the Senate. The Leader of the Opposition put to me certain suggestions because his Party would like longer time to discuss some Bill which I would like to see before the Senate today. 
I understand that  Senator Murphy  and his Party have had meetings in relation to this matter. I have given him time to have meetings. I have agreed that one Bill be put aside because the Opposition feels that it would like further time to look at it. This is democracy. In this instance because members of my Party want to have further discussions amongst themselves, we are not prepared to see  Senator Murphy's  Bill lifted from position No. 34 to position No. 1 and be discussed tonight. Therefore the Government opposes  Senator Murphy's  proposition. 

 Senator Wright reminds me that the Government will certainly give  Senator Murphy  an early oppotunity to put his Bill before the Senate so that it may be debated. But because of the absence of the Leader of the Government in the Senate tonight and because the. Government Parties have not had an opportunity to discuss the matter we are asking that it be set aside from tonight's discussion. When the Leader of the Government in the Senate returns on Monday I shall see that  Senator Murphy's  views are conveyed to him and that a discussion takes place with the Leader as to how we can bring on  Senator Murphy's  order of the day at an early date. 
Sentaor  BYRNE (Queensland) (12.30) - The proposal by  Senator Murphy  to advance Order of the Day No. 34 under General Business above other items is apparently based on an arrangement between himself and  Senator Turnbull.  It would be a very undesirable practice if the business sheet were substantially altered by private individual arrangements even though, subsequently, it would require the concurrence of the Senate.  Senator DrakeBrockman  mentioned this matter to me early this morning. But  Senator Turnbull  did not mention it to me and nor did  Senator Murphy.  As the second order of the day is a motion moved by the Australian Democratic Labor Party, presuming that honourable senators are not entitled to rearrange the business sheet on individual understandings, if  Senator Turnbull  had asked that his matter be deferred, the next item for consideration would have been the order of the day in  Senator Little's  name to which the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  is in continutaion. I think courtesy would demand that we be consulted as to what we thought about this person to person arrangement. Unfortunately - perhaps due to an oversight - that was not done. Personally, I want this matter to come to a vote because 1 spoke on the matter originally. 
move: 
That the Bill  be now  read a  second  time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to give effect to the Government's decision, announced on 14th February 1972, to restore the investment allowance on manufacturing plant and equipment. The allowance permits a deduction for income tax purposes of 20 per cent of the installed cost of new plant and equipment used in manufacturing, the deduction being made from the income of the year in which the plant is first used or installed for use. This allowance was introduced in February 1962, and remained in force until its suspension in February last year. The decision to restore it was taken recently when the Government decided upon measures to encourage activity in the private sector. This step has been taken on the basis of views put to us strongly from many quarters that restoration of the allowance is likely to be conducive to greater confidence and activity. 
This Bill will restore the allowance, under section 62AA of the Income Tax Assessment Act, as from 14th February 1972. Expenditure incurred on or after that date will qualify regardless of when the contract under which it is incurred was entered into. In other respects the allowance will be as it was before suspension. The rate of allowance will be 20 per cent, and the allowance will apply to precisely the same categories of expenditure as before. The deductions will again be allowable in respect of the income year in which the plant is first used or installed for use. A memorandum explaining technical features of the Bill is being made available to honourable senators. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator O'Byrne)  adjourned. 
 in reply--I thank the Senate for the support it has given to the Dairy Produce Export Control Bill and the speakers for the contribution which they have made.  Senator Primmer  and  Senator Webster  are 2 honourable senators who have had a long and practical experience in the dairying industry. Although this Bill deals with only a portion of that industry both honourable senators in their contributions have covered a wide field. They spoke of many of the problems which are to be found in the dairying industry in many parts of Australia.  Senator O'Byrne  is one who, over a long period in this Senate, has always made a contribution in one way or another to dairying bills which have come before the Senate.  Senator O'Byrne  asked how dairy farmers could support this Government. Well, I say that it is very easy. If  Senator O'Byrne  had the experience of a dairy farm over a very long period and if he had benefited, as many dairy farmers have, through the policies of this Government then he would not wonder why dairy farmers should support the Government. May 1 comment on the matter of eggs? While sympathising with the sentiments expressed by the honourable senatorI point out that we arc dealing with the Australian Dairy Produce Board and the export of its  products.  I believe that the Australian Egg Board should deal with the export of its products. 1 shall say nothing further. 
That is how the set up goes these days. Each industry wants to deal with its own particular product. Each speaker has covered the 
Bill pretty thoroughly and has gone through the purposes of the Bill. I do not think  the  Senate wants to bear with me while I go through it too. I remind the Senate that each of the speakers has spoken about the present situation, the price of butter and how the demand for butter on the export market is very good at the present time. But . 1 remind the Senate that the international dairy produce market underwent a considerable change during 1971. The position shifted rapidly from one of surplus to an acute shortage within the space of a very few months. Honourable senators will remember that the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  was saying that there were huge stocks of surplus butter in Europe, and then very shortly afterwards he was saying that there was a terrific demand for butter in that  area. 
The changed situation, which enabled many factories in Australia to sell their 1971-72 export products forward at very attractive prices, came about because of lower production in the major exporting countries and the European Economic Community as a result of bad seasons and weather conditions in that area, coupled with a large reduction in the Community's stocks due to an extensive surplus disposal programme. The change in the world market situation was quite unforeseen,I have explained already how the situation produced the 2 different statements made by the Minister for Primary Industry. There was a long period of depressed prices due to world overproduction; then suddently there was an improvement in the world supply situation, due to temporary factors. These temporary factors, of which all honourable senators who have participated in this debate have spoken, cannot be looked upon as permanent features of the world dairy trade. 
Under the terms of access recently agreed to by Great Britain and the European Economic Community, the Australian dairy industry faces the possibility of being excluded from the British market as from the end of 1972. Therefore we have to look at the longer term marketing prospects for the Australian dairy industry. 1 believe that they depend on our ability to keep and to develop a foothold in the limited alternative markets available to us. 
So, these amendments to the Act have been brought before the Senate in order to give the Australian Dairy Produce Board an opportunity to foster further those alternative markets. The Board's plants will play an important part in marketing diversification in the future. The amendments before us are designed to give the Board this opportunity to diversify. All the honourable senators who spoke supported the Bill. I thank them for the contributions they made. 

 - Senator O'Byrne made a number of other comments. I would like to obtain for him a much more detailed answer than  1  can give him at the present time. My advisers are not in a position to give such an answer now. I will give him a written reply as soon as the information comes to hand. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
I believe that the point the honourable senator makes is correct. 
All I do here is represent the Minister for the Army. I think the Minister would need to examine the question in detail to provide an answer. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
There are no plans to equip the F111C with  a  laser beam delivery system. 
Dalgety Australia Ltd is a very big wool broking firm, lt has many interests, so no doubt its final dividend would come from many different areas of commerce. I think it is fair to say that the broking houses in Australia have played a major part in assisting the rural producers in their problems of the last 18 months to 2 years. I know for a fact from my personal experience that many rural producers were kept on their properties during that period by the assistance of the broking houses. In regard to the $30m emergency grant, 1 say to the honourable senator that only $21 m was paid out. This was paid to producers throughout the length and breadth of Australia. The amount which could have passed through Dalgety's hands would be much smaller than :he §30m to which the honourable senator referred. However, I shall direct the question to the Minister for Primary Industry and obtain some further information for the honourable senator. 
I remember the honourable senator, and some other honourable senators, questioning me last year on the matter of rentals and finance problems of soldier settlers. The only information I can give the honourable senator is that last week here in Canberra the Minister for Primary Industry held lengthy discussions with South Australian government officials and representatives of zone 5. The outcome of these discussions is that a number of minor points which involve the total problem still have to be finalised. I understand that discussion is still going on in this regard. However, I shall again remind the Minister of the honourable senator's concern in this matter and obtain some further information for him. 
On the previous occasion 53 aircrew personnel and 121 ground crew personnel went to the United States. 
The honourable senator has a good memory. On this occasion the number will be slightly less by one or two aircrew personnel and three or four ground crew personnel. 1 just cannot give the honourable senator the total figure at present. It could be more or less depending on the kind of course that the crews go through. I will give that final figure to the honourable senator as soon as I can. 
I saw the report, lt only confirms the information that was given by representatives of the wine producers to the special committee set up by the Minister for Primary Industry under Professor Grant of the University of Tasmania. Growers' representatives told the committee that they expected the price of wine to increase by 10 per cent. The Minister for Primary Industry has said that he hopes that Professor Grant's committee will be reporting to him very shortly. No doubt the committee will comment on this matter. 
I am not aware of all the points which the honourable senator has made but I shall certainly ask the Minister for Primary Industry to investigate them. When the Minister has completed that investigation I shall seek some information for the honourable senator. 
The Minister for Supply has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
On 16th August 1971 the Minister for Supply sent the following advice to  Senator Keeffe  in response to this question: 
The  Clerk  of the Senate has passed to  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson as Minister for Supply, a copy of Question No. 1192 of which you gave notice on 20th May 1971, the day on which the Senate adjourned. The question concerned the spares associated with the six DCS aircraft purchased from Jetair Australia Ltd. 
This matter has just come to my notice, and rather than await formal issue of the Question on the Notice Paper I am writing to advise that the value of the spares, based on current market values and estimations is assessed at $18,139, and that they are included in the gift of theaircraft to Cambodia. Nepal and Laos. 
This afternoon  Senator Drury  asked me a question in regard to the estimated additional cost of sending personnel to America to train with the F111 aircraft. I said at that time that I do not know the final costs, and that is true. But perhaps I could give the honourable senator some information which would give him an indication of how much could be involved. It is estima ted that if the training is carried out in America the cost will be $3.3 10m, excluding fares and allowances. However, planning is in hand to train about half of these air crew personnel in Australia. If these plans are approved a saving of approximately $l.lm in overseas expenditure could be effected. 
The Minister for Supply has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
On 21st June 1971 the then Minister for Supply sent the following advice to  Senator Wriedt  in response to this question: 
I refer to the Question on Notice (No.1059) which you put to me on 6th April 1971 concerning the Government's sale of two Viscount aircraft in 1969. As I did not present my reply before the end of the Autumn Session. J am writing to youto avoid further delay. 
Consistent with the Government's airline policy tenders to purchase the two Viscount aircraft were restricted to: 
overseas buyers; 
local buyers who undertook to export the aircraft outside Australian territory; and 
holders of Australian airline licences currently operating aircraft of the type offered. 
Delivery of the aircraft to tenderers in categories (a) and (b) was made dependent on production of an export approval under the Customs (Prohibited Exports) Regulations and evidence that the buyer had arranged for export of the aircraft. 
The Government sold the Viscount aircraft to a local buyer who arranged to export them lo an overseasfirm and the necessary export permit was taken out. The overseas buyer then, of its own initiative, sold the Viscounts lo an Australian firm which did not hold an Australian airline licence to operate this type of aircraft. Action by the Government, however, ensuredthat the aircraft were not operated in Australian territory and the Viscounts were eventually sold again overseas and flown out of Australia in September-October 1970. 
Thus, no real breach of Government airline policy occurred. I should mention, however, that, as a result of our experience in this case,the Commonwealth is reviewing its contract clauses to ensure a more immediate compliance with the conditions of sale in future disposals of aircraft. 
I hope the above information satisfies the intention of your Parliamentary Question'. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
Laser beam systems have been designed to permit the accurate delivery of conventional high explosive bombs against pin point targets. My Department has no knowledge of any laser beam delivery system which has been designed specifically for the delivery of atomic bombs and considers it unlikely that existing systems would be used for this purpose. 
I understand that there are reports that certain spy planes are to be stationed at Edinburgh. Those reports are not correct. It would be true to say that the defence science staff of the Department of Defence, in conjunction with the Royal Australian Air Force, has had talks with the United States Air Force about the possibility of a research programme being carried out in the upper atmosphere by high flying aircraft. 
The 
Royal Australian Air Force has not cancelled the order for 18 helicopters. The Minister for Defence issued a statement in which he said that delivery of the order has been deferred. Originally the order was for 23 helicopters. Following a review by my Department it was found that we had an immediate requirement for 5 aircraft. Because of No. 9 Squadron's return from Vietnam we have no immediate use for the remaining 18 helicopters. Consequently the order has been deferred. It has not been deferred because we do not have bases. That is incorrect. No payment has been made on the 18 aircraft whose delivery has been deferred. 
I point out to the honourable senator that only from time to time does the Australian Wool Commission make information available as to the amount of stock which it is carrying. The last announcement about the carry-over of wool was made on 11th February. At that time the Commission announced that it had 570,000 bales which it had bought in under the reserve price operation and 130,000 bales which it had purchased under the price averaging plan. That particular lot of wool would go into the No. 4 pool under the price averaging scheme. 
There have been critics of the Australian Wool Commission but I think it has become quite obvious to those critics now that the Commission has played a very vital role in connection with the prices that were received by growers last year. I want to make this point: Between July and December 1971 the Commission supported the market by bidding on 48 per cent of the offerings. However, it brought in only about 45 per cent of the wool for which it bid. It has been estimated by the Commission that the gains to growers as a result of trade buyers over-bidding the Commission were as much as about 4.7c per kilogramme. I think the figures speak for themselves and justify the operations of the Commission. 
The 
Minister for the Army has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Headquarters A Company 2nd Royal New South Wales Regiment was re-located from Kempsey to Macksville on 20th April 1970. 
(a) A 3-acre site was acquired in 1970-71 and the proposal for the construction of a depot was included in the draft design lists 1970-71 and 1971-72. On each occasion, however, financial limitations and the existence of higher priority items prevented construction of the depot. 
The proposal is at present under consideration for inclusion in the draft design list 1972-73. If this happens and if construction is authorised in 1973-74, completion of the depot could be expected about the end of 1974. 
I listened very carefully to the speech made by  Senator Douglas  McClelland. I am aware that there is no depot at Macksville. I point out to the honourable senator that the headquarters of A Company, 2nd Battalion, Royal New South Wales Regiment, is at present operating from rented buildings located at the showground and the training of the men is carried out in the showground area. Whilst I was listening to the speech made by the honourable senator I thought to myself that no doubt there would have been a number of contractors who would have applied for the contract to build the depot. I asked myself whether these, contractors would not already have had their men working on some other jobs. I also considered whether these people who are unemployed would be capable of working on a building site. If they are not capable of doing this work, would the Australian Labor Party place them on a building site to carry out specialised work? I do not think that the honourable senator has gone into this question fully enough. In the answer supplied by the Minister for the Army  (Mr Katter)  and which the honourable senator read the Minister made the point that the existence of higher priority items prevented the construction of the depot. I think that the Army is the best judge of priority needs. 
Yes. I am sure that the honourable senator would be one of the first to get to their feet in this House if another job being undertaken in New South Wales for the Army had been cancelled to give this particular job priority; he would have risen in the Senate and advanced the cause for the area in which the job had been cancelled. However, I will draw the attention of the Minister to what the honourable senator has said. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Senate adjourned at 12.12 a.m. (Friday) till 3 p.m., Tuesday, 21 March 1972. 
In view of the detail which is sought I shall have to refer the question to the Minister for Primary Industry. I shall do this and obtain information for the honourable senator. 
I do not have at my fingertips exactly how many DC3 aircraft are available at the present time. I shall make inquiries and give the honourable senator an answer in the next day or two. 
 I have noted what  Senator Murphy  has said. I think he will agree with me that over recent years there has been determination shown by the Department of Primary Industry to alter legislation to conform with suggestions that have been made in the Senate from time to time. I can assure the honourable senator that the Department of Primary Industry and those who draw up the legislation are very conscious of previous remarks made by the Leader of the Opposition in this place, and by other honourable senators who have made remarks along similar lines. I have set out the views of the Department and of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  in regard to partnerships.  Senator Durack  has said that he agrees with that but it does not seem to be equitable. I understand that this is the ordinary law, and it is considered to represent the fairest approach. As  Senator Murphy  said, there are specific regulations which will spell out these matters. I remind honourable senators that the Minister for Primary Industry said in another place that these regulations will be brought before the Parliament and that they will be examined and debated before they become final. So members of both Houses of the Parliament will have an opportunity to see exactly what the regulations contain. 
The honourable senator has the opportunity. If he examines them and he believes they are not what they should be, he has the opportunity to move a disallowance motion. Honourable senators have an opportunity to look at these regulations and to examine them very closely. That is as far as I can go. As promised, T will indicate to the Minister what  Senator Murphy  and other honourable senators have said on this matter, ff the Minister has any further comments. 1 will ask him to write to the honourable senators concerned. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
1 think that what  Senator Douglas  McClelland has said about clause 4 (10.) is right. 
Although the legislation does not spell out what the honourable senator is trying to say, I give the honourable senator my assurance now that, should an industry member die, resign or be removed from the Board, he will be replaced with an industry member from the State represented by the former member.  Senator Little  referred to the case of a producer member with fewer than 200 hives ceasing to be a producer member of the Board. I believe that what  Senator Douglas  McClelland said regarding clause 4 (10.) is right. If he will accept my assurance on the other matter. I will see thai he receives that assurance in writing later. 
 I thought that I had answered this question when 1 replied to  Senator Durack.  If a company holds 200 or more hives, it is entitled to one vote; the shareholders in that company do not receive votes. If the hives are held by a partnership, each partner in that partnership is deemed to have a vote because each partner is deemed to be the owner of those hives. 
The newspaper report was drawn to my attention. To say the least of it, this was a scurrilous attack on officers of a very 5ne Service. The report went on to make an attack on me, suggesting that I was hospitalised for a couple of days because I did not want to answer questions in the Senate on this matter. I was surprised that a man of the standing of the author of that article should make such an attack. The facts of the matter are that, since December, 3 Service members and one civilian who previously had been employed by the Air Force in Victoria have died from unnatural causes. I refute entirely the suggestion made by the Barton publication that there is any connection between these unfortunate occurrences and the Fill project. Indeed, only one of the persons concerned had previously been associated with matters related to the Fill. There is nothing to suggest that the persons to whom reference has been made were either closely associated or at all associated with each other as stated in the reports, nor can the incidents be related in any way. Two of the deaths are still the subject of coronial inquiries and, for obvious reasons, I think it is inappropriate for me to comment further on that matter. 
I turn to the latter part of the honourable senator's question which concerned the statement in the newspaper report that I had refused to table the results of an inquiry into the Jacobs case at Laverton. The honourable senator will recall that, in answer to a question from  Senator Wriedt,  I made a full disclosure of what the court said in its findings in the Jacobs case. In my reply I indicated that further charges would be arising out of this matter. The honourable senator, together with  Senator Bishop,  then brought the matter on during an adjournment debate, pointing out the background to the case. I replied fully again to the points that they raised. In answer to  Senator O'Byrne  on one of these points, I said that I would not table the report of the inquiry but that, should any honourable senator desire to come to see me on points arising from the inquiry, I would be only too happy to see him.  Senator O'Byrne  took the opportunity to speak to me on several occasions in relation to this matter. Finally, I supplied him with a full list of the charges that were finally made and of the actions taken by the Royal Australian Air Force as a result of the inquiry and as a result of my insistence that the RAAF would not tolerate this practice of 'bastardisation' as the Press likes lo call it. 
The honourable senator refers to a writ issued by the Commonwealth Government in August 1969 against the Lockheed Aircraft Corporation and the Menasco Manufacturing Co. which arose, as he says, as the result of an accident involving an Orion aircraft in the United States of America in April 1968. Subsequently, a court of inquiry established in its findings that the acci dent was due to the faulty manufacture of parts which went into the assembly of the undercarriage of the Orion aircraft. The hearing of this action by a judge and jury was to commence in Los Angeles on 28th March 1972. Shortly before that time, negotiations to settle the claim out of court were concluded. The settlement involved the payment in cash by the Lockheed company of $US2m. This amount is now in the hands of the Commonwealth. On the basis of the settlement the parties agreed to the action before the Judge being dismissed with prejudice*. I understand that this form of dismissal is the usual practice in the courts of the United States. It was on that basis that Australian newspapers said that the action had been dismissed. I point out to the Senate that, in determining whether the settlement offered by the Lockheed company should be accepted, many factors required assessment. The advice of our American legal representatives and of the Commonwealth's own legal advisers was that we should accept the offer, which we did. 
I am not aware of the situation about which the honourable senator has questioned me. However, I feel sure that he is well aware of the representations that are made from time to time to both the Minister lor Health and the Minister for Customs and Excise in order that Australia may bs kept free of diseases. No doubt that aim is behind the decision taken in this instance, but I shall seek some information and let the honourable senator have it. 
It is true that supersonic aircraft have been operating in Australia and in other countries for some years. The type of air craft now operating in Australia on military operations are the Mirage and the F4. The Fill will be operating later. The Fill and the F4 are 2 aircraft that are at present operating in America and in Great Britain. The Mirage is operating over Europe and over other countries in the southern part of the eastern Mediterranean. I should point out that the Fill and the F4 have been and will be in the future operating over certain parts of Europe. To my knowledge no serious damage has been done to property in any of those countries. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
RAAF VIP flights during the period 1st December 1970 to 31st December 1970, included 15 all-jet landings and the same number of departures from Kingsford-Smith Airport. 
and (3) The information is set out in the following list which has been extracted from  a  document tabled in the Senate on 7th May 1971 (Hansard, Senate, page 1570). 

<graphic href="051232197204112_21_0.jpg"></graphic>

The Minister for the Army has povided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
As at 26th January 1972 the numbers of National Servicemen serving in Papua New Guinea were as follows: 
Officers 20. 
Other Ranks 56. 
Included in these figures are 4 Officers and 47 Other Ranks serving as teachers in the Royal Australian Army Education Corps. The remaining National Servicemen are employed on various military duties. 
It is expected that National Servicemen will continue to serve in Papua New Guinea as they are likely to do in other areas where Army units of which they form part are normally stationed. 
Some National Servicemen at present servingin Australia may therefore have been told that they may be posted to Papua New Guinea as replacements for those currently serving there. 
The 
Minister for the Army has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
and (2) An advertisement of the character indicated by the honourable senator was inserted in recent editions of a Sydney newspaper at the volition and personal expense of a CMF officer of Headquarters Company, 2nd Division. The basic information contained in the advertisement was accurate and an initial response of 19 inquiries and 6CMF enlistments resulted. There is however a routine procedure for the lodging of official recruiting advertisements for the CMF and this has been brought to the notice of the officer concerned. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The main purpose of this Bill is to amend the Honey Industry Act 1962-66 to provide for some changes in the method of appointing industry members to the Australian Honey Board. The Board which was established in 1962, comprises 10 members - the  Chairman  who is also the representative of the Commonwealth Government, 5 members to represent honey producers and 4 members to represent honey packers. Each mainland State is entitled to one producer member on the. Board, and with the exception of Queensland, one member to represent honey packers. The existing legislation provides that each mainland State apiarist association shall nominate a member to represent producers in that State on the Board and that each such nomination is subject to the concurrence of the Federal Council of Australian Apiarists Associations which was established to represent producers on a federal basis. 
Unfortunately the Federal Council of Australian Apiarists Associations has been largely ineffective in recent years because of its constitutional requirement that all decisions on major matters must be unanimous. This factor, coupled with the inability of the various State Associations to reach agreement on matters affecting the welfare of the industry as a whole, has resulted in a deadlock on some isues. For example, in 1969 the situation occurred where a position on the Board remained vacant for 2 months because one State objected to the person nominated for appointment by another State. A further factor is that the method of selection of producer nominees by some State associations may not always result in appropriate representation of the producers in those States. Most producer nominees are either selected by executive committees or by a majority vote at annual conferences of State associations which in practice are attended by relatively few association members. Consequently the persons who finally vote on the nominations may represent only a small proportion of the producers registered in their respective States. 
This matter was discussed at the Australian Agricultural Council meeting last month. The State Ministers for Agriculture agreed that the best solution to the problem should be to provide for the election of producer representatives to the Board in lieu of the existing provisions. Accordingly the Bill provides for the producer representatives to be elected by a poll of honey producers in each of the mainland States. A producer will be entitled to vote at a poll and to be a candidate for election if he is the owner of 200 hives of bees. This minimum qualification has been established with the agreement of the Australian Agricultural Council on the basis that it is the minimum number of hives required to give a person a reasonable living from beekeeping. Proposals have been submitted by the apiarist associations in Western Australia and New South Wales that it be made a condition that candidates for election should be restricted to persons who only pack honey from their own hives. This poposal is not acceptable as it is considered that as provision is being made for the election of producer members it should be left to the producers to decide by a majority vote whether a beekeeper with packer interests should be elected. In addition it is felt that the type of member needed on the Board is not to be found in a beekeeper who is divorced by reason of the legislation from expanding his own operations. At present the 4 honey packer representatives from New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia and Western Australia are appointed by the Minister after nomination by individual packing houses. However, as honey packer associations have since been established in most States, provision has been made for the Minister to consult with State honey packer associations, wherever practicable, before appointing a member to represent honey packers. 
It has been alleged by some State apiarists associations that the Board is dominated by the honey packer representatives. At the last meeting of the Federal Council of Australian Apiarists Associations in August 1971 representations were made by some State apiarists associations for a reduction in the packer representation on the Board. The other State associations however opposed a change and as all decisions of the Federal Council of Australian Apiarists Associations must be unanimous, the matter was left unresolved. The allegation that the Board is packer dominated has not been substantiated by the industry organisations. At no time since the Board's establishment has it been possible for packer members to outvote the producer members. The present composition of the Board has enabled it to make decisions based on sound commercial guidance and principles. Any decision to reduce the packer representation could seriously affect the marketing efficiency of the Board as it could lose the main source of its commercial knowledge and contacts if the co-operation of packers was lost. Moreover, honey packers have previously stated that they would not be effective as representatives with a vote on behalf of packers in another State whose crop and stock position and methods of business were unknown to them. 
Provision has been made in the Bill to extend the terms of office of the present industry members of the Board to 30th June 1972 or such later date as may be specified by the Minister to enable the elections to be held. The Bill specifies the remuneration to be paid to the  Chairman  and representatives of honey producers and, in addition, for certain fees and allowances to be prescribed. 
Tasmania which is a relatively small honey producer is not represented on the Board. By agreement with the Tasmanian Government and the industry, the Tasmanian apiarists decided to forego representation on the Board providing that the honey levy collected in Tasmania was returned to the Tasmanian Beekeepers' Association for promotion and research purposes. The State apiarists associations in the Federal Council of Australian Apiarists Associations have all accepted the principle of the election of producer representatives and it is considered that the amendments proposed will give honey producers added confidence in their representatives on the Board which is necessary to enable the Board to continue to conduct its affairs in the best interests of the Australian honey industry. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator McLaren)  adjourned. 
Sitting suspended from 5.39 to 8 p.m. (Quorum formed) 
 in reply - First of all, I wish to thank the Senate for the passage of this Bill without amendment. I go further than  Senator Douglas  McClelland and say that not only the representatives of the Australian Agricultural Council but also the members of the Opposition in the House of Representatives have agreed to this Bill. The discussion that has taken place tonight shows that there are many diverse views on the proposed amendments to the Honey Industry Act and on the operations in past years of the Australian Honey Board in general. I think most honourable senators will agree with me when I say that that has stemmed from the fact that the constitution of the Federal Council of the Australian Apiarists Association requires any decisions it makes to be unanimous decisions. Because of that policy the State organisations have become more or less the mouthpieces of the industry and, in that capacity, have expressed divergent views to the Government on the way in which the operations of the Australian Honey Board should be conducted. 

 Senator McLaren, in opening the debate for the Opposition, mentioned firstly that he hoped that the Australian Agricultural Council would do for the, egg industry what it is doing for the honey industry. I could not agree with him more on that point. The honourable senator went on to ask about the appointment of members of the Australian Honey Board. In that connection I draw his attention to the second paragraph on page 5 of my second reading speech earlier today in which I said: 
Provision has been made in the Bil! to extend the terms of office of the present industry members of the Board to 30th June 1972 or such later date as may be specified by the Minister to enable the election to be held. 
I believe that covers the point that the honourable senator made in the earlier part of his speech. He went on to talk about the probability of multiple votes. He then moved to the time df registration and suggested to me that I should indicate to the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  that he suggest to all State Ministers that they endeavour to arrange a common registration date for all States. In answering those 3 points I should like to read some notes that I have on these matters so that the honourable senator will see what the Government is trying to do and the representations that have previously been made to it on these matters. The situation was that the South Australian Apiarists Association requested that eligibility to vote or eligibility to stand as a candidate for election to the Australian Honey Board should be based on the ownership of 200 hives at the last date of registration instead of the time of voting as provided in the Bill. In these industry proposals the industry tried to avoid vote splitting. It was feared that someone with 1,000 hives could register and divide his holding by 5 and so be entitled to 5 votes. This is the point the honourable senator was trying to make. 
This proposal was discussed with Commonwealth legal advisers who pointed out that such a provision could disfranchise some persons coming into the industry and not disfranchise those who had left the industry between the last date of registration and the voting date. It was pointed out that the normal course followed in a poll with a property qualification was to allow anyone qualified at the time of voting to get a vote. In addition there is the further difficulty in that the State Act provides for different times of registration while the Queensland legislation does not cover all the beekeepers in that State - 2 points that the honourable senator made in his speech. 
It is proposed that the regulations for the taking of a poll under the amended legislation will provide for the Department of Primary Industry to prepare a roll which will be based essentially on the list of State registrations. A person with 200 hives who is not enrolled will be entitled to apply for enrolment to the  Deputy  Returning Officer in his particular State. After discussion with our legal advisers it was felt that the problem of vote splitting could best be met by a provision in the regulations which would permit a proper check to be made of applicants for enrolment. The form of application prescribed would require the applicant to declare that he was the owner of 200 hives. The  deputy  returning officer for the State would then need to satisfy himself of the applicant's entitlement to enrol by checking with the registration list of bee- keepers, and even with the beekeeper himself. As the number of beekeepers is not large, it is considered that such a provision would work satisfactorily. 
This in itself would not prevent vote splitting but would mean that a large producer with, say, 1,000 hives would have to go to the trouble of registering with the State department, say, 800 of his hives in the names of 4 other persons, declaring them to be the owners. This could have far reaching legal implications for him in the way of taxation, gift duties, etc. It is considered that this would allow a satisfactory check to be kept on the position as there would not be enough incentive for any producer to go to this trouble to alter the whole nature of his business operation in order to create additional voting powers. 

 Senator Durack also spoke on this matter but went a little further. He spoke about the Australian Honey Board and the honey producers. Firstly he referred to the eligibility to vote. I think he referred in this connection to partnerships and companies. The information I have in relation to the voting rights of partnerships and companies who own 200 hives or more is that the Bill follows the basis adopted in previous legislation of a comparable nature, lt provides for property qualifications. Each company which meets the property qualification will be entitled to one vote, but shareholders will be excluded from voting. In the case of a partnership, as each partner owns the property of the partnership each partner will be entitled to a vote. This is the ordinary law and it is considered to represent the fairest approach. The regulations will spell out not only the specific matters which may be necessary in this regard to supplement the general provisions in the Bill. The points raised by both Senators McLaren and Durack will be covered by regulations on the specific matters which will be spelt out at a later date. 

 Senator Durack mentioned that in the first place the Australian Honey Board was set up without a poll of producers. This is quite true. In 1963 when the honey legislation was passed by the Parliament the Federal Council of the Australian Apiarists Associations indicated that because of the very strong rank and file support in the industry for the establishment of a board a poll of producers on the question was unnecessary. This is not new in regard to the establishment of primary industry boards. Earlier in the 1960s the Government gave an undertaking to the wool industry that any change in marketing legislation would first of all be put before the producers to vote on, but later industry leaders came to the Government and said that the proposed amendments to marketing legislation had the full support of the industry and they did not believe that it was necessary to take a poll. The Government followed that suggestion. I understand the same situation has applied to the egg industry which has not felt up to this stage that it was necessary to have a poll conducted before amending legislation was put to the Parliament. As has been said on a number of occasions, in this matter the Australian Agricultural Council originally agreed to the setting up of a board. 
The only other thing I can say to  Senator Durack  is that to my knowledge no-one within the beekeeping industry or no State organisation in the industry has said to the Government that the Board should be done away with. Admittedly, a group of people in South Australia has suggested that the Board should not  sit  until a poll of producers has been held. There are in Western Australia individual producers who are not members of organisations who have also expressed a view that there should be a poll among producers. lt is because of this overwhelming support for the Board that the Government went ahead with this legislation.  Senator Little  asked me some questions about the sittings of the Board and the remuneration which members receive. I have a copy of the report of the Australian Honey Board and I shall make one available to the honourable senator afterwards. I believe that it is a very good report because it sets out the operations and the functions of the Board quite clearly over the period 1970-71. It goes into quite a lot of detail as to the amount of money collected by the Board and the way it was spent. 
Yes, it contains that information. The note which 1 have in relation to this matter is that remuneration of $1,300 per annum is paid to producer members. As in all cases with boards associated with the Department of Primary Industry this amount was approved by the Higher Salaries Committee. I believe that this Committee is made up of First Division officers. At this time I cannot tell the honourable senator exactly who sits on the Committee. I understand the Public Service Board and the Commonwealth Treasury have representatives on it. No doubt the Department of Primary Industry would have a representative on it and perhaps the Prime Minister's Department would have a representative too. Should the honourable senator desire further information on this matter I shall seek it. The Board, in setting this fee, took into account the loss in production which might be incurred through the beekeepers being taken away from their business on the business of the Board. At any time Board members can be required to attend to the business of the Board. This does not only include board meetings but also attendance at industry meetings to put the views of the Board. Because of the small amount received from the levy - normally about $110,000 per annum - the Board is conscious of the need to reduce administrative costs and it has been cutting down on its board meetings. As a consequence more business is being dealt with by members through correspondence. I think that answers the honourable senator's questions on that matter. If he desires further information I ask him to come along and tell me and I shall try to collect it for him. 
I turn to the matters raised by  Senator Webster.  He made the point that he found some difficulty in deciding what measuring stick the Government used in determining a producer. The information which I have in this regard is that this minimum qualification has been established with the agreement of the Australian Agricultural Council on the basis that this is the minimum number of hives required to give a reasonable living from beekeeping. The figure of 200 hives was accepted by the Opposition in another place. I make some reference to what the, honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  said in another place: 
I think it can be argued logically that this figure could be reduced to 180 hives, 170 hives, ISO hives, or 100 hives, but I am not going to labour this point. 1 accept the fact that it has been examined thoroughly by State governments, including Labor Party governments. This has been accepted by the standing committee of the Australian Agricultural Council and the Council itself. If this is the best figure which has been arrived at for eligibility to vote in a poll to elect representatives of bona fide beekeepers - those receiving the majority of their income from honey - this is the figure that should be adopted by us. I have no doubt that if at a later date this figure of 200 hives is shown to be too high the Government will have no objection to reducing it for future elections. 

 Senator Webster gave some figures in regard to incomes and the number of producers who have 2 hives or more. The figues which I have differ slightly. They fall more into line with the figures  Senator Douglas  McClelland gave. The point is that in 1969-70 696 apiarists were registered in Australia as owning 200 or more hives. The 696 apiarists represented 13 per cent of all registered apiarists and account for 83 per cent of all honey produced. But we find that there were 4,785 apiarists who owned less than 200 h ives. Their gross income was between $90 and $1,283 per annum. So the. figure of 200 hives was arrived at as the number which would give as many people as possible the right to vote and to stand for election to the Board. At the same time it was perhaps the lowest figure which would give a man a living while keeping bees full time and not part time as distinct from those who have only a few hives or who have under 200 hives. 

 Senator Douglas McClelland in his speech made reference to this matter. I think he was quite, shocked that the man who had 200 hives had a gross income of only just over $2,000. I sympathise with what  Senator Douglas  McClelland was saying. But I had the feeling that he was trying to tie the Australian Country Party up to this figure. I say to the honourable senator that a man with 200 hives would be a lot worse off if he had to face up to the costs of a 35-hour week. While the honourable senator stands up and supports these small incomes of the commercial apiarists, I think he must pay due regard to costs. On future occasions the honourable senator must endeavour to do what he can to assist in this way. The honourable senator in his remarks spoke about this arbitrary figure of 200 hives. I remind him what the honourable member for Dawson said in another place. I think what the honourable member said has a lot of common sense behind it. As the years go by we will see what happens in relation to this figure, arbitrary as it may be. I think that this figure has been considered by a large section of the industry. We believe that at this time this figure gives the best results. If it does not I assure the honourable senator that the Minister for Primary Industry will have another look at it. Certainly the Australian Agricultural Council will voice its views too. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
When the honourable senator asked me in my office one day what action I had taken I gave him a full list of the action the Royal Australian Air Force had taken, including the repromulgating of these orders throughout all appropriate RAAF units, taking action as suggested by the court of inquiry to ensure tighter discipline during the leisure hours of the apprentices by seeing that more non-commissioned officers and officers are on duty during these hours. I can obtain further information and give it to the honourable senator if he so wishes. As to whether Jacob was right in doing what he did, I believe that every airman should have the opportunity of bringing an injustice before the notice of the authorities. But there are certain procedures for doing this and one of them is not running to the Press. 
I cannot inform the Senate why the abattoir has lost its licence, but I can say that 1 appreciate the urgency of the matter and its importance to the abattoir concerned. I promise the honourable senator that I will make urgent inquiries and let him have an answer as soon as possible. 
I cannot give any information. The newspaper is expressing a view and that is all there is to it. 
I am not aware of what  Mr Vasey  said. I certainly shall ask for a copy of his remarks. When I receive that copy I will be in a position to answer not only that specific point but also all the other points that the honourable senator has raised. 
1 will admit that it has been a rather long wait since 23rd February, but the honourable senator has indicated the background to his question. 1 shall certainly chase it up, see where the matter rests and endeavour to obtain an answer for him. I will also pass his invitation on to the Minister for Primary Industry and ask him to reply to the honourable senator directly. 
I am not aware that the honourable senator has stated a fact but I shall make inquiries of the Minister concerned and obtain some information for him. As I have said before, Project N is still undergoing an evaluation of the military need for this aircraft in the Department of Defence. It has been stated that this evaluation is hoped to be completed in the latter part of April. We have not arrived at that position yet, so I do not know where the honourable senator gets his information that the Government has shelved the project. 
I do not readily recollect the point that the honourable senator is making and the correspondence concerned. But I will most certainly draw his question to the attention of the Minister for Repatriation and obtain an answer for him. 
I did see a report of this proposed merger, but I remind the honourable senator that the principal part of the trade in processed vegetables carried out under the New ZealandAustralia Free Trade Agreement, is  13071/72-  S.-  f38  mainly in peas and beans. The Government has set up a pea and bean panel comprising representatives of the growers and processors and officials from the Department of Primary Industry and the Department of Trade and Industry. Under the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement there is a further joint panel which looks into trade between these  2  countries. I understand that this panel has done a pretty fair job of watching the trade interests of both countries. The only other information I can give the honourable senator is that  I  understand that there was a meeting of that panel in Wellington, New Zealand, last week. No doubt the representatives at that meeting considered the point that the honourable senator raised about the proposed merger of these  2  companies. 
Yesterday  Senator Keeffe  asked me how many Dakotas are in service in the Royal Australian Air Force, and if they could be used to carry freight in Bangladesh. The present position is that there are 20 Dakota aircraft in the RAAF, all of which are being used for operation purposes. Of these 20 aircraft 13 are used as freighters, 9 of them in Australia and 4 at Butterworth, Malaysia. All these aircraft are serviceable. The normal approach for use of these aircraft would be through the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I am not aware whether such a request has been received by the Minister for Foreign Affairs to use any of these aircraft either to carry goods to Bangladesh or to be used within the country. However should such a request be made I will see that it is examined in detail and see what help by these aircraft could be given, taking into account the operational needs of the RAAF. 
I did see the article to which the honourable senator has referred. Although T do not have any detailed information about a study carried out by the Department of Primary Industry I assure the honourable senator that the Department is well aware of this method of marketing wool and is watching this operation very closely. Should I have some further information to add to what I have already said I shall make it available to the honourable senator. 
At the present time as Minister responsible for the Air Force  1  have issued 2 staff requirements, one for the replacement of the Mirage aircraft and the other for the replacement of the Winjeel aircraft. This is not binding on the Government and it does not commit the Government in any way but it does give us an indication of what firms are prepared to meet those special requirements. In regard to the replacement for the Mirage aircraft, already we have  3  proposals from overseas firms and we expect proposals from  3  other firms and possibly a fourth. I cannot name those firms at this stage but should the honourable senator desire to know their names I suggest that he should come along and see me. 
I have seen the report to which the honourable senator has refered. I have no information to suggest that Professor Grant's report is now in the hands of the Minister, and certainly the Minister has made no announcement about receiving the report or that the Government intends to take certain action, so the article can only be expressing views which are purely supposition. 
I am quite willing to seek the information but 1 would have to approach the Minister and his Department to obtain it. 
 Mr President,  I seek leave to make a statement on behalf of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  in regard to rural reconstruction. 
I can definitely assure the honourable senator that the interests of wool growers will be paramount in both my thinking and the thinking of the  Deputy  Prime Minister and Minister for Trade and Industry in regard to the shipping of wool. In recent times I have read quite a good deal of comment about shipping outside the Conference lines. I understand that very shortly - in the next day or two - there is to be a meeting in Europe on this matter. Therefore I would not like to comment further now. However, I assure the honourable senator that I will keep my eye on the results of that meeting and let him have any information I receive. 
A prophet is without honour in his own country. The Australian Wool Board, through the International Wool Secretariat, has been promoting wool in many parts of the world. One has only to visit the International Wool Secretariat in London to see wool being promoted in all manner of ways, one instance being the very lavish carpets on the floor as one enters the front door of the building. A tremendous amount of promotional work is going on. Some growers and some people in the wool industry disagree with the way in which wool is being promoted. I will seek some information on promotion by way of a report from the Australian Wool Board and give it to the honourable senator so that he can understand the job being done by the Board. 
 The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Bureau of Agricultural Economics is currently engaged on an investigation of the adequacy, of existing rural credit facilities. As soon as this study is complete, the Government will be in a position to re-examine the whole subject of the availability of credit to the rural sector. 
This part of the question involves a matter of policy and, as the honourable senator will be aware, it is not the normal practice to discuss matters of policy in reply to questions on notice. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has supplied the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
There are currently 8 companies engaged in the pearl culture industry in Australia and Papua New Guinea. Three of these companies are owned and controlled in all aspects by resident Australians. The remaining 5 companies operatic under joint Japanese/Australian agreement in which production costs and pearl harvests are shared equally between the Australian company and the Japanese partner concerned. One of these companies is completely Australian owned whilst foreign ownership of the remaining 4 companies ranges from 50 per cent to 93 per cent. 
No figures are availalable for the value of shell taken specifically from Torres Strait waters. 
The estimated value of shell taken from the Queensland Division of the Continental Shelf in 1970 was $303,000, a high proportion of which would have been taken from Torres Strait. 
Formal technical training in the pearling and pearl culture industries ceased several years ago. This was because of the decline in the market outlets particularly for pearl shell. However, Islanders are now receiving on-the-job training on pearling vessels and pearl culture farms. 
On  11th April  Senator Drury  asked me the following question, without notice: 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Is it a fact that a ban has been imposed on the importation of goldfish from Japan? If so, by whose authority and on what grounds was the ban imposed? Was it because of the danger of disease? If so, would the disease be dangerous to humans, animals or other fish? Or was it because of the predatory nature of goldfish? Will the ban apply only to Japan or to all countries exporting live fish to Australia? Is the Minister also aware that the sudden imposition of the ban has placed dealers in live fish throughout Australia in a serious financial position as tile largest portion of their incomes was derived from that source? 
The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following reply to the honourable senator's question: 
The Australian Fisheries Council consisting of Commonwealth and State Ministers responsible for fisheries, at a meeting on 27th March 1972 decided that an immediate ban should be placed on the import of goldfish. 
The reasons for this decision were: 
There is a danger of introducing fish diseases and parasites with imported live fish. Goldfish have a wide temperature tolerance and therefore could contaminate most natural waters in Australia including trout streams and lakes in southern Australia. 
Australia is one of the few countries at present free from virulent diseases of salmonids (salmon-trout and other related species). This factor ensures a certain market overseas for Australian disease free salmonid eggs. 
Goldfish are very easily bred and therefore could be produced locally in sufficient quantities to satisfy the demands of the aquarium trade. 
As a result of the Australian Fisheries Council decision a request has been made to the Department of Customs and Excise to prohibit the importation of all varieties of goldfish. This request is now under consideration. 
The honourable senator will recall that last week I said that my Department has issued 2 Air Staff requirements for replacement of aircraft. One of these Air Staff requirements was for the replacement of the Mirage and the other was for the replacement of the Winjeel aircraft. I might add now that investigations are proceeding as to the possible replacement of the Macchi aircraft which is due to reach an end of life period about 1980. I said that we expect a number of companies to tender for the replacement of the Mirage aircraft and that so far we had received. 3 proposals. One of those proposals includes a proposal from the company to which the honourable senator has referred. However, we expect a further three or four proposals from other companies. In regard to the Winjeel, we have received a number' of firm proposals from companies for a replacement for that aircraft. I must emphasise that certain steps must be taken in regard to these proposals. Firstly; the Royal Australian Air Force has to evaluate the operational and technical performances of all the aircraft to see that they meet its requirements. Secondly  -  I emphasise that the Government is very firm about this - proposals for the supply .of aircraft, whether they are constructed under licence or under a joint production arrangement, must pay regard to offset orders. An examination of these proposals will take a good deal of time. Therefore, I cannot give the honourable senator a firm answer. 
Finally, I think I should add that the Minister for Defence announced within the last few days that offset orders worth $3m from aircraft companies in the United States of America and Britain had been arranged with the Australian aircraft industry. This is an example of what we are aiming at. Under these arrangements, the Australian Government Aircraft Factories will produce the rudders, elevators and fuselage ribs of Boeing 727 aircraft. This is the type of offset orders that we hope will be contained in these proposals. 
 I am aware of the point that the honourable senator makes. I myself receive a large number of representations seeking the movement of Royal Australian Air Force bombing ranges further out into the interior of this country. When I do that or attempt to do it, I run foul of the environmental committees of this country. However, I will take the point which the honourable senator makes to the Minister for the Navy and let the honourable senator have an answer. 
The honourable senator has asked me a number of questions, some of which I had difficulty in following because I think he has mixed up one or two points. The Government has not said that it will terminate the wool reserve price scheme this year. What the Government has said, and said time and time again, is that the deficiency payments made over the whole clip up to an average of 36c per lb would be for one year only and would cease on 30th June this year. The matter of the establishment of a wool authority is still receiving Cabinet examination; so I cannot give any further information on it. The honourable senator asked 2 other questions, one about the cost of the scheme. If the honourable senator put his question on the notice paper, that would be the best way to deal with it. 
For the information of honourable senators, I present the following paper: 
Report No. 3 of the Atomic Weapons Tests Safety Committee entitled Fallout Over Australia from Nuclear Weapons Tested by France in Polynesia from June to August 1971. 
I seek leave to make a statement relating to the report. 
1 would not accept the last part of the honourable senators question. I feel quite sure that the Minister for the Navy will have something to say about it. The honourable senator asked me a series of detailed questions which I believe can be answered only after a great deal of study, so 1 suggest that he put his question on notice. 
 I thank the Senate for the speedy second reading that these Bills have been given. The resources available for war compensation purposes are directed according to priorities based on the extent of war related disablement and loss. The pensions are not taxable. The Government believes that the increases granted to TPI pensioners and war widows compare more than favourably with movements in the consumer price index and in the minimum wage. I have listened to the amendment that  Senator Poyser  has moved. The Government cannot accept it. We will resist it by calling 'no' when the amendment is put. I suggest that we now move to dispose of the amendment. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Original question, as amended, resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
I recall the answers that I have given. Perhaps I do stand corrected on one word - the word 'Australian'. I was referring to the International Wool Secretariat in London to which I believe New Zealand, South Africa and Australia contribute. The carpets were all-wool. As I said, I stand corrected on one word. 
 Senator Bishop,  in opening for the Opposition, referred to the Australian Labor Party's concern for what he speaks of as the general uncertainty about the future of the Australian aircraft industry. He went on to speak of the fears of his Party and those who work in the industry of further retrenchments. He asked why "we are importing huge quantities of what he calls 'pieces of equipment'. Let me say straightaway to  Senator Bishop  and to all those listening that it is the expressed intention of the Commonwealth Government that a viable and effective defence aircraft industry should be maintained in Australia and that the industry should develop with the country's needs. 
What are the needs of the country? Let me say immediately that over the years we have purchased about 1,300 aircraft. Of that total we have made about 1,000 aircraft locally. In addition we have endeavoured to give the industry orders for pieces of equipment - to use  Senator Bishop's  term - and only recently an Australian manufacturer was awarded a contract against overseas and Australian competition for 100 automatic direction finding systems for the Macchi trainer. Up to that stage there had been very little development in Australia in the area of what might be called advanced military avionics. The placement of this order undoubtedly will stimulate this type of manufacture in Australia. This must be the result. The factories producing this piece of equipment will have something which has not been produced before and the expertise of the workmen involved on the contract must be improved. 
I think the Opposition's suggestion that the Government has failed to safeguard the Australian aircraft industry is invalid. Let us have a look at the situation. We have 3 major contractors in this country, namely, the Government Aircraft Factories, the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation and Hawker De Havilland Australia Pty Ltd. Along with other lesser contractors, these factories employ about 7,000 men. I believe that the industry is one of the more important employers of labour in Australia. When we look at the factories individually wc see that the 3 main ones employ the following numbers of staff: The Government Aircraft Factories about 1,990 men; the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation, I understand, about 1,950; and Hawker De Havilland, I believe, about 1,700 employees. This means that the balance of 1,360 men are employed in the other 5 factories. 

 Senator Bishop spoke of retrenchments. One regrets that retrenchments do occur, but the honourable senator knows as well as I do that the industry is characterised by ups and downs in employment. These ups and downs are in a way unavoidable because the industry is dependent .on work load levels which in turn are dependent on defence orders. Recently we had the situation where the Government, through its policy of continually endeavouring to stabilise the work load in the industry, directed certain defence projects. However, I will deal with them a little later.  Senator Bishop  went on to refer to some of the retrenchments of more recent times. From information supplied to mc I find that 10 mechanical tradesmen and 6 electrical tradesmen were issued with retrenchment notices as late as 7th April of this year. Retrenchment notices were issued also to 6 electrical tradesmen at the Fishermen's Bend plant, but a review of the situation enabled those latter notices to be withdrawn. This review also brought to light the fact that the management could offer employment at Fishermen's Bend to 8 of the 10 mechanical tradesmen under notice of retrenchment at Avalon. Four of these personnel have accepted the positions offered to them. The fifth was found upon interview to be unsuitable for the work available and the remaining 3 men declined the offer. Endeavours are being made to overcome this problem. We recognise the problem but, as I said, it is dependent on the work load and the work load is dependent, in the main, upon the demand. 
Let us look at the importance of this industry and its magnitude. In this financial year, 1971-72, the value of the work load for the industry for the 3 main organisations which I have mentioned exceeded $40m. The Opposition's doubts about the future of the industry are not reflected in the confidence held by the Government and by the industry in respect of works capitalisation. When we look at this situation we must remember, for example, that the value of Commonwealth owned land, buildings, services and plant used in this industry amounts to about $24m while privately owned investment in the same categories totals a further $16m. This amounts to a total capital investment in the industry of well over $40m. I would describe the aircraft industry as a growth industry. But it is important to understand that recognition must be given to the fact that by its nature, as I said before, it is subject to troughs and peaks. Obviously, in time of war and during periods of reequipment by the Services the industry booms. Then, in the intervening period, the industry slackens. So we have a situation in which some men have to be stood down. 
The industry is going through one of these troughs and this is why the Government is doing everything possible to try to obtain offset orders. We had a situation in which 110 Mirage aircraft were built under the Mirage programme. We also had the Macchi programme. The Mirage programme has been completed and the Macchi programme is drawing to an end. So the work load of those 2 programmes has dropped off considerably. However, these aircraft that 1 have mentioned will be replaced and other aircraft have to be introduced into the industry. Earlier this week  Senator .Bishop  asked me about the replacement of the Mirage aircraft and the Winjeel aircraft. I said in reply at that time that the Air Staff Requirement had been issued to the interested companies stating the requirements of the Royal Australian Air Force for the Mirage replacement. I indicated that up to date we had received proposals from 3 companies, one of which was the SAAB company which manufacturers the Viggen aircraft about which the honourable senator spoke. That company has already put proposals before the Department of Air. I expect a further 3 or 4 proposals to be put to the Department. 
The Department of Air must carry out an evaluation of each of these aircraft in regard to its performance and to see whether it meets the requirements of the RAAF and Australian conditions. Above all, proposals must contain offset orders for Australian manufacturers. A study of this will take some time. As I pointed out, although we called for the Air Staff Requirement some time ago we have only 3 firm proposals before us. We are waiting for more. In the case of the replacement for the Winjeel aircraft, we have received a number of firm proposals. The list is now reduced to 3 or 4 proposals which must be evaluated on the basis of their meeting RAAF requirements and the Government's requirement that they shall contain a fair percentage of offset orders. 
This is the sort of position that we face at the present time. Recently, we had the announcement to which 1 think  Senator Bishop  referred. That was in respect of the placement of offset orders in Australia not only for Service aircraft but also for the purchase, assembly, maintenance and manufacture of parts for civilian aircraft. The Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn),  in conjunction with the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  and the Minister for Supply  (Mr Garland),  on 14th April announced that an agreement had been reached with the Boeing company for offset manufacture in Australia of nearly $3m worth of spare parts for Boeing 727 civil airliners. This agreement provides for the manufacture locally of rudders, elevators and inspar ribs by Hawker De Havilland Australia Pty Ltd and the Government Aircraft Factories. These new contracts bring the total value of offset work being undertaken in Australia for the Boeing company to approximately $7m. Perhaps the Opposition will say that it is not enough. But it is vital work that we are able to obtain at this time during this trough period. 
The contracts previously signed with these companies and with the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation include not only those components which I have mentioned for the Boeing 727 aircraft but also windows, flap gear boxes for the Boeing 747 aircraft and various machined parts for both the Boeing 727 and 747 aircraft. It is worthy of mention that Australia is now the sole source of supply for rudders, elevators and inspar ribs for the Boeing 727 aircraft. If we can build on this sort of policy I believe we will have some future in the aircraft industry. I believe this is a very commendable effort and it speaks highly not only of the Government's policy but also of the competence and the capacity of the local industry. As I -indicated previously, it is the stated policy of the Government to maintain a small but viable and effective aircraft industry in Australia. The Government and my Department, together with the RAAF, give heavy support to this industry because they recognise that aircraft production and, indeed, all Australian industry must in times of emergency provide many weapons, ammunition, equipment and supplies needed to sustain the defence of this country. Two benefits flow from RAAF support of the rapidly growing and highly skilled industrial complex in this country. Firstly, without an efficient local industry there would be no capacity to develop sophisticated weapons and equipment, nor would we have highly skilled experts to assist in the maintenance of this equipment. I think that it is axiomatic that a strong industry is vitally necessary for the defence of Australia. But it cannot remain strong unless it receives the constant stimulus of defence orders. This is where the catch is. 
If honourable senators look at past and present policy they will find that on every occasion since World War II when aircraft have been required in sufficient numbers to justify tooling up in Australia the local industry has been allotted the task of manufacturing those aircraft. It is well to recall to the Senate the aircraft and the aeroengines that have been manufactured in the past in Australia under licence. These include the Canberra bombers, the Sabre fighters, the Vampire fighters, the Vampire trainers, the Mirage fighters, the Mirage trainers and the Macchi trainer programme that is just being completed. 
Looking at the engine situation, we find that Australia has manufactured the Nene, the Avon, the A tar and Viper engines. In addition, attention must be drawn to the fact that Australian designed projects allotted to the industry include a number of other projects. I speak of the Jindivik pilotless target aircraft, the Winjeel trainers, the Malkara anti-tank weapon and the Ikara anti-submarine weapon. I would be remiss, I believe, if 1 did not say that a great deal of effort has gone into developing new projects to provide a workload for the industry. 
Let us examine some of these projects of which I speak. We have the light observation helicopter. The military requirement for these aircraft is 75, spread over a long period. Such a programme would not have permitted long production on an effective basis because the programme had to be drawn out over a long period. But, in an effort to achieve an acceptable programme for the local industry, tenders were called on the basis that 116 civilian aircraft would be manufactured at the same time in Australia. 
I turn to the Ikara missile. Approval has been given to an effort to achieve overseas sales for the Ikara anti-submarine weapons system. An announcement was made only recently that, as a result of these efforts, the Ikara missile has been purchased by Brazil and orders worth approximately $20m to local industry are now in hand or are expected. This surely is a highly commendable effort that reflects the worth of our aircraft industry. 
Again, there is the project Turana. The Turana is a small target drone based on the Ikara system and has been adopted by the Royal Australian Navy. After successful research and development by local industry, the first small production run of Turana is about to be commenced. There has been considerable interest overseas in Turana and its prospects in that direction I understand are regarded as promising. 
Finally, but by no means least, I would examine the Project N development. Project N is the current title given to a design project undertaken by the industry for a light multi-purpose fixed-wing aircraft with high short take-off and landing characteristics. The Government has approved an expenditure of over $4m on the design stage which involves manufacture of  2  flying prototypes, a test airframe and certain other work. Both prototypes have achieved all design expectations and the performance of the aircraft has attracted a great deal of interest.  Senator Bishop  made the point that I had inspected and sat in the aircraft. On returning to the Senate after that inspection, ] was asked a question about Project N. 1 expressed great in I west in it and said that because of its characteristics I believed it had a future in civil use in Australia. Its characteristics are most adaptable to conditions in this country. Whether or not the production 
Stage  of the aircraft should be recommended for approval is now under examination in the defence group of departments and can be expected to be considered by Ministers in the near future. The project has provided valuable work for the design team in the Government Aircraft Factories at Fishermen's Bend. 
In discussing the Australian aircraft industry it should be noted that a very important source of potential workload for the industry is reciprocal purchasing agreements. The Government has made it known to the overseas aerospace industries receiving orders for Australia's military and civil requirements that reciprocal purchasing opportunities are expected. I can tell the Senate that participation by overseas firms in this programme is increasing. Special machinery has been set up by the Government to facilitate participation in these opportunities. This includes an inter-departmental committee, consisting of the Department of Trade and Industry, the Department of Defence and the Department of Supply, and a committee of industry experts. To date, as I mentioned, orders worth $7m have been won. The work is highly competitive and, although only mildly successful to date, the programme is proving to be of particular value to the industry because of its challenge lo management skills and new manufacturing techniques involved. 
A current trend of some significance to the Australian aircraft industry is that towards collaborative programmes between two or more countries requiring an aircraft of particular performance. This trend could bc said to be generated by the ever increasing sophistication of aircraft accompanied by extremely high design and development costs. It is regarded as important that opportunities should be developed for the local industry to participate in such programmes. If the industry has a problem, it is securing workloads suitable to its capacities and skills. The industry, of course, is heavily dependent on defence orders for its workload. For example, in the 1970-71 financial year, the RAAF spent 74 per cent of its budget of $303m in Australia and the remaining 26 per cent overseas, including expenditure for the maintenance of squadrons and units in Malaysia and Vietnam. Of the money spent overseas, 75 per cent was for aircraft equipment and stores. For the first quarter of the current financial year the percentage of local expenditure is slightly higher. To the end of September 1971, the respective percentages were 77 per cent in Australia and 23 per cent overseas. 
The extent to which contractural payments fall due early in the year has some affect at this juncture. In Australia, major contractors and suppliers to the RAAF total almost 200, while suppliers on a small scale run into hundreds more. I would mention also that, to ensure that the maximum number of orders is placed locally, the procurement of products from overseas is constantly reviewed. If the Service has been forced to order a product overseas because of unavailability in Australia, the next lime it has to be purchased reference is again made to local industry. If the product has since been developed and manufactured locally, then local industry is given every consideration. The RAAF provides a workload for the Australian aircraft industry because of its requirement for support from the industry in 2 major areas, namely, engineering and maintenance. On maintenance, service and engineering support the RAAF alone has spent $1 1.5m this year in the aircraft industry. I should explain that the engineering support includes the design and development of aircraft repair schemes, the design, development and manufacture of modifications, the manufacture of spare parts and the provision of technical services. The latter includes the provision and maintenance of drawings and technical data, investigations of defects and advice and assistance on many aircraft engineering subjects. 
The annual cost of these technical services is in excess of $l.lm. Maintenance includes servicing, repair, overhaul and incorporation of modifications to airframes, engines and aeronautical equipment, which embraces airframe accessories, engine accessories, instruments, electrical, radio, electronic and armament equipment and weapons systems. Maintenance work at depot level allotted to industry represents the following proportions of the RAAF depot level arisings: Airframes, 50 per cent; aircraft accessories, 81 per cent; ground telecommunication equipment, 78 per cent; and ground support equipment, 68 per cent. At present, all aircraft engines are allotted to industry for major repair and overhaul. It is intended to overhaul the Pratt and Whitney TF-30 engines of the Fi 1 1 aircraft within our own service, but even then the proportion of engines allotted to industry will exceed 95 per cent. 
With a view to achieving a more effective industry, consideration is being given to the possibility of rationalising the facilities of the Government Aircraft Factories and the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation Pty Ltd which operate alongside each other at Fishermen's Bend. A joint Department of Supply and CAC report on the possibility of merging the 2 organisations was received by the Minister for Supply and the Board of CAC in late February.  Senator Bishop  has referred to it. That report is now receiving interdepartmental consideration. The report has given rise to a wider study of the possible alternatives for the aircraft industry as a whole, such as embracing the Sydney segment operated by Hawker De Havilland Australia Pty Ltd at Bankstown and Lidcombe. There is no doubt that rationalisation of the industry overall is necessary if it is to be placed on an effective basis. An important source of the potential workload for the local industry is overseas aerospace organisations through reciprocal purchasing opportunities and collaborative programmes. As announced by the Minister for Supply on 4th April- 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Cant)  - Order! The Minister's time has expired. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the Bill is to give effect to the Government's proposals in the repatriation war compensation and service pension fields, as announced by the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  on 11th April. Many exservicemen suffering from very serious incapacity, or the more severe loss of limbs, as a result of their war service, will benefit from these proposals. All war widows who lost their husbands during, or as a result of their war service, and all service pensioners, will also benefit. 
These increased payments are further evidence of the Government's concern that those eligible for war related compensation, and those eligible for service pension, receive consideration consistent with the general economic situation and their needs. It will be appreciated that the proposed increases will benefit those who are very dependent on repatriation payments. 
I shall now proceed to explain the proposed changes in more detail, giving the new weekly amounts and an estimate of the numbers who will benefit. Honourable senators will be aware that repatriation war compensation payments are free of income tax. 
Special T &amp; PI Rate 
This will be increased by $2 a week to $44.50. This amount is payable to: Those who are totally incapacitated from war related disabilities or tuberculosis; those who are blinded; those suffering from the more serious double amputations; and those who are temporarily totally incapacitated. 
Approximately 21,800 will receive an increase of $2 a week because of the increase in the Special (TPI) Rate; but the new weekly payment of $44.50 should not be looked at in isolation. Additional amounts or allowances designed for specific purposes are also payable, separate payments are made to wives and children, and many receiving the Special Rate or its equivalent are also eligible for service pensions payable under repatriation legislation. 
Single ex-servicemen in receipt of the Special Rate can now qualify also for up to $1 a week service pension under the changes being introduced at this time. Because the restrictions which applied to the 2 service pension increases in 1971 are being lifted, married ex-servicemen receiving both the Special Rate and service pension will receive an increase of up to $2.25 a week in their service pension in addition to the $2 a week increase in war compensation - these combined increases represent an increased payment of up to $221 a year. 
The Intermediate Rate 
This is payable to those whose incapacity from war-related disabilities or tuberculosis enables them to work only parttime or intermittently, and who are consequently unable to earn a living wage. It will be increased by $1 a week to $31.25. There are some 1,800 recipients of the Intermediate Rate or equivalent who will all receive this increased benefit and, additionally, those of them who are receiving service pensions will also be eligible for an increase in those pensions. 
Single ex-servicemen in receipt of both the Intermediate Rate and service pension will qualify for up to $2.25 a week more service pension, in addition to the $1 a Week increase in war compensation. This represents an increased payment of up to $169 a year. Married Intermediate Rate ex-servicemen will receive up to $2.50 a week increase in their service pension which, together with their war compensation increase, represents an increase of up to $182 a year. 
War Widows 
There are at present some 50,000 war widows whose basic wai: compensation will be increased by $1 a week to $.18.25. Over 97 per cent of war widows also receive a domestic allowance of $8 a week and, additionally, some 19,000 of them will also receive an increase of up to $2.25 a week in their age or invalid pension. Thus, a war widow also receiving age or invalid pension will benefit by up to $.169 a year. 
Honourable senators will, of course, realise that war widows with children of school age receive considerable repatriation assistance for the education of their children, right through to completion of tertiary studies. Free medical and related treatment is also provided for war widows and their children, as well as other fringe benefits. 
As I stated earlier, service pensions are payable under the repatriation legislation. The rate of these pensions is the same as the age and invalid pensions. There are over 57,000 service pensioners who will all receive an increase, and an unknown number will become eligible for part service pension for the first time. 
Single service pensioners on the maximum rate will receive the $1 a week increase, but those receiving less than the maximum rate could receive as much as $2.75 a week. The same range of increases applies to a married service pensioner whose wife also receives a service pension, and a service pensioner whose wife receives an age, invalid or service pension in her own right will receive an increase ranging from 75c a week to $2.25 a week. For service pensioners therefore, the increase will vary between $39 and $143 a year. 
To summarise the effect of these proposals let me say that: 
A single ex-serviceman in receipt of the special rate pension will receive an increase of $2 a week war compensation and could also qualify for up to $1 a week service pension; a married exserviceman in receipt of the special rate pension will also receive $2 a week increase in his war compensation and up to $2.25 a week increase in his service pension; a single intermediate rate exserviceman pensioner will receive an extra $1 a week war compensation and up to $2.25 extra by way of service pension, but if married, the extra service pension could amount to $2.50 a week; a war widow will, receive an additional $1 a week in her basic payment and, together with domestic allowance and age or invalid pension, could receive a total of $36.37 a week as against $33.12 a week previously. A war widow with 2 children will now receive $40.25 a week from repatriation plus education allowances and fringe benefits; and if she happens to qualify for age or invalid pension, a further $27.12 a week could be payable; all service pensioners will receive an increase and, depending on various factors, such increases will range from 75c to $2.75 a week. 
Honourable senators will be interested in the fact that, since July 1970, that is, in less than 2 years, increases in the basic payments for Special (T &amp; PI) Rate beneficiaries have amounted to $8.50 a week, or $442 a year; and that, additionally, very worthwhile increases have been made in supplementary benefits, such as Attendant's Allowance and Service Pension. In the same period, most war widows have had their repatriation payments increased by $3.75 a week, or $195 a year; while a war widow with 2 children has benefited by $8.10 a week, or $421.20 a year since July 1970. Additionally, of course, asI said earlier, education assistance, medical treatment and other fringe benefits are provided. 
The Bill appropriates the Consolidated Revenue Fund to the extent necessary to provide during the current year the additional payments to which it gives effect. The foregoing amendments will come into force on the pay day following the day on which the amending Act receives royal assent. The measures I have outlined reflect the Government's continuing interest in, and concern for, those who have suffered loss or severe incapacity because of the demands of war service, or whose means are such that they qualify for service pension. Cost-wise they will add almost $1,500,000 to repatriation expenditure for this financial year. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Motion (by  Senator Poyser)  agreed to: 
That the debate be now adjourned. 
Motion (by  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson) agreed to: 
That the adjourned debate be made an order of the day for a later hour this day. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
It is the usual practice of the Government to keep the rates of pensions and allowances payable to seamen war pensioners under the Seamen's War Pensions and Allowances Act in line with the rates of pensions and allowances payable to other war pensioners under the Repatriation Act. The purpose of the Bill now before the Senate is to raise, in relation to seamen, the various rates of pension in line with the increases in corresponding rates being made in the Repatriation Bill just introduced. 
Clause 3 of the Bill increases the intermediate rate of war pension by $1 a week to $31.25. The intermediate pension is paid to seriously disabled persons whose warcaused incapacities render them incapable of working other than on a part-time basis, or intermittently. Clause 4 substitutes a new First Schedule to the Act to provide for an increase of $1 in the weekly rate of pension payable to widows of Australian mariners. 
The Bill does not have to provide for the increase of $2 to $44.50 a week in the rate of TPI pension, or for various increases in the weekly amounts payable in respect of the disabilities described in the Fifth Schedule to the Repatriation Act, as the increased rates under that Act will apply automatically to seamen pensioners by virtue of section 22a of the Seamen's War Pensions and Allowances Act. As usual, the pension increases will be payable on the first pension pay day after the date on which the Bill receives the royal assent. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Poyser)  adjourned. 
As the honourable senator knows, at the present time dairy Bills have just been introduced in another place. I think it would be more appropriate if the honourable senator would raise this matter when the Bills come from the other place. However, in the meantime I shall draw his question to the attention of the Minister for Primary Industry. Perhaps the honourable senator would like to question me about this matter when the Bills progress through this place. 
The Government is fully aware, and I think this chamber is aware, of the importance of the blue pea industry to Tasmania. Representatives from that part of the country have time and again told us strongly about this industry and its importance to that State. The only answer I can give the honourable senator at this stage is that on the pea and bean panel which has been set up by the Commonwealth Government there are representatives of the industry, the processors, and officials from the Department of Primary Industry and the Department of Trade and Industry. I understand that a similar sort of panel operates in New Zealand. There is also a joint panel of the New Zealand-Australian Free Trade Agreement; its members met only recently to look at all the reciprocal trade between these 2 countries, and no doubt the Australian panel drew the attention of the New Zealand panel to this particular matter. Following a question by  Senator Lillico  last week I have asked the Department of Trade and Industry to give me further information on this industry. As soon as it comes to hand I will let the honourable senator have it. 
It is correct as the honourable senator says, that for the first 9 months of this wool selling season prices have increased by 6 per cent and for March this year, as compared with March last year, by 32 per cent. However, if 1 were the honourable senator I would not be carried away by this. Although the prices at March this year were 19.4 cents per kilogramme higher than they were at March last year, when one looks at the Government scheme of an average price for the whole clip of 36c perlb or 79.37c per kilogramme and then at the average price for March, which was 80.2c per kilogram, one finds that the average for March was very little higher than the average of 36c per lb on which the Government bases the deficiency payment. It is true that in February the prices of wool averaged nearly 40c per lb, or somewhere about 80.2c a kilogram, but for March they averaged only 36.2c. Despite that, since Easter prices have steadily risen. As to the amount of wool bought in by the Commission, the honourable senator will recall that between July and December last year the market was in a very weak state. At that time the Commission was bidding for about 48 per cent of wool offered, and finally bought in 45 per cent of the wool for which it had bid. As a result, by the end of December the Commission had stocks amounting to 735,000 bales bought in at auction plus 196,000 bales under the price averaging plan scheme, giving the Commission a total of 931,000 bales. 
I saw the article to which the honourable senator has referred. No doubt he will agree with me that  Mr MacDiarmid  was expressing the views of his organisation. I think the honourable senator will realise, if he has been around in the wool industry, that there is some concern among wool growers as to the operation of the price averaging plan. I think he will also realise that the ad hoc committee which was set up by the Australian Wool Industry Conference made a report of its findings to the Conference and suggested that there should be some alteration. The Minister for Primary Industry is examining this question at the present time. No doubt the Randall Committee will have something to say about the matter. Until such time as that happens, I do not think I should comment any further. However, I will convey the honourable senator's question to the Minister for Primary Industry. 
1 well recall the honourable senator's question. I cannot explain the delay, but I shall make it my business to find out and to try to get the answer as soon as possible. 
in reply  -  I say on behalf of myself and my colleagues on this side of the House that we dissociate ourselves from the remarks which have been made by speakers of the Opposition tonight and with the case which they have put. I suggest that the Senate do now adjourn. 
I am able to answer. 
As you rightly said,  Mr President,  I cannot give the numbers. I could not even say how many cattle have come off our family property in the last 3 years. I shall certainly make inquiries for the honourable senator. I oan say whether approval is given because I have had this information in my file for some time. As the honourable senator knows, export abattoirs must be registered with the Department of Primary Industry, as must any premises such as boning rooms, which are used in connection with meat. A company that wants to export meat must obtain from the Department of Primary Industry a permit to export. Furthermore, companies which want to export meat must obtain an export licence from the Australian Meat Board. So approval has to be obtained in respect of 3 different matters. The honourable senator asked whether the Department of Primary Industry or the Australian Meat Board was worried about the number of animals slaughtered. I would say that the Department of Primary Industry and the Australian Meat Board naturally are concerned whether the numbers of livestock that are available for slaughter will enable export quotas to be filled. In this respect the 2 bodies are keeping a careful watch on that matter. 
I think the honourable senator will recall that in answer to his last question on this subject I informed him that representatives of the South Australian Government had come to Canberra and had held discussions with officials of the Department of Primary Industry, and I think they saw the Minister also at that time. Following those talks, discussions were also held with Zone 5 representatives. The problems raised in respect of Zone 5 were specific to the area in which the representatives live. I understand that an examination of their submissions is still taking place. I also understand that a review is proceeding of the war service land settlement situation at Kangaroo Island. As the problems relating to both subjects are rather complex the examinations are still taking place. I understand that most of the settlers in Zone 5 have now signed their leases. 
I do not know how much of a question which is a lot of rubbish a Minister has to answer, but I will endeavour to answer some points raised by the honourable senator. Firstly, the submissions of the Australian Wool Industry Conference are still being studied by the Minister for Primary Industry. When he is ready to put a submission before Cabinet he will do so. In regard to the Randall Committee report, that Committee is still investigating and I would not know when it will conclude its investigations. 
in reply - As the representative in this chamber of the Minister for the Army  (Mr Katter),  I wish to say that I cannot help  Senator Mulvihill  directly, but I give him an assurance that I shall place his submission before the Minister for the Army and ask him to reply to it as quickly as possible. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I am aware of the practice to which the honourable senator refers. I can well understand his concern over the increasing development of this practice, just as I can well understand the concern of the orchard owners who have to make the decision, particularly after giving a lifetime to the growing of these trees in their orchards. I think the honourable senator will recall that at the last Australian Agricultural Council meeting some Ministers of Agriculture from the various States drew attention to this matter and certain proposals were submitted to the Minister for Primary Industry for his examination. At the present time the Minister is examining the proposals. However, he has not reached any conclusions. Should he do so in the near future, I will convey them to the honourable senator. 
I think the suggestion put by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  is a worthy one. I think we are trying to get the reports dealt with as soon as possible after they are presented to the Senate. However, the Government has one or two reservations about the motion moved by  Senator Murphy.  The motion states: 
That on Thursdays, unless otherwise ordered - 
The consideration of the reports of standing and select committees of the Senate be placed on the notice paper as 'Business of the Senate' and, as such, shall take precedence of other business set down for such day; 
The Government finds nothing wrong with that paragraph of the motion. The motion continues: 
The consideration of the reports shall take precedence on the notice paper pursuant to their date of presentation to the Senate; and 
We accept that. The motion continues: 
The maximum period each Thursday for the consideration of reports of committees, in accordance with this resolution, shall be 2 hours.  lt is here that we find a little difficulty. The order of business for today was such that after prayers there were petitions, notice of motions, questions without notice and upon notice, replies to questions previously asked without notice, presentation of papers by Ministers, by senators presenting reports from committees and by the  Clerk,  placing of business, ministerial statements by leave and messages which had been received from the House of Representatives transmitting Bills. All those matters had to be disposed of before Government Business could be called on. A particularly lengthy question time, numerous questions on notice which had to be answered, several lengthy ministerial statements from the other place and a number of messages from the other place, as there were today, could take a considerable amount of time, although today the Bills transmitted from the other place were particularly short Bills. On a Thursday the morning session and perhaps a good deal of the afternoon session could be taken up before we dealt with Government Business. If there were a 2-hour period for the consideration of reports there could be a delay of up to 2 hours before the Government could get on with its business.  Senator Murphy  has indicated that he has had a look at the amendment I propose to move, and that he accepts it. If we had to go through the procedure that I have indicated, a senator could say that the Government was carrying out a delaying tactic by introducing a number of Bills and long ministerial statements and having a particularly lengthy question time so that the Senate would not get on to dealing with the report that was to be discussed that day. 
It is the Government's intention that the debate on the reports be brought on straight after question time. Therefore we would have questions without notice and upon notice and replies to questions previously asked without notice and then the Leader of the Government would ask that Government Business be deferred to a later hour of the day so that the discussion on the report to be discussed that day could take place. So, I propose to move for the addition of certain words to paragraph (c). The words proposed to be added are:  but in any event shall conclude 3 hours after the time fixed for the meeting of the Senate. 
We say that following prayers there should bc question time and, depending on the length of that question time, the debate on the reports should be concluded within 3 hours after the saying of prayers. If question times goes beyond the normal hour or so, then there will be less than 2 hours for debating the reports. If question time goes for H hours, there will be half an hour less for debating the reports. 
There would be half an hour less than the 2-hour period. What the honourable senator is saying is quite correct. There would be li hours to debate the reports. Therefore, it will be up to the Senate to regulate the time. The Government proposes that no senator shall speak for more than 30 minutes in such a debate, unless otherwise ordered. We recognise that in certain debates the Leader of the Opposition, for instance, might find it necessary to go beyond 30 minutes. In that instance it would be necessary to have an agreement between the Leader of the Opposition, the Leader of the Democratic Labor Party and the Leader of the Government. It could be agreed that the Leader of the Opposition, and perhaps the Minister leading for the Government, be permitted to go beyond the 30 minutes, and then the time of the other senators who take part in the debate would be adjusted accordingly. I think we can accept that. The last section of our proposal reads: 
The foregoing provisions of this resolution, so far as they are inconsistent with the Standing Orders, shall have effect notwithstanding anything contained on the Standing Orders. 
The Government realises that up to 2 hours of Government business could be lost each week if we accept  Senator Murphy's  motion. 1 seek an assurance from the Leader of the Opposition and the Leader of the Democratic Labor Party that, should Ministers desire to incorporate in Hansard their second reading speeches on Bills that have originated in another place, leave will be granted by the Senate. 
No, I am not. I shall not be able to supply such information until I receive the results of a court of inquiry which is being held into the matter. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill, which is supplementary to the 2 Bills on which I have just made second reading speeches, is to provide the machinery necessary for the collection of the levies imposed by the Dairying Research Levy Bill 1972. The effect of the Bill I am now presenting is that the incidence of levy will be borne by the producer. 
In earlier legislation relating to similar Bills, the Parliament debated certain clauses concerning matters of law and justice. These referred to right of access to premises and the time limits to commence prosecutions for offences under the Act. In the Bill now before the Senate, the relevant clauses adhere to those adopted by Parliament in comparable legislation last year.I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Poke)  adjourned. 
 I move: 
That the Bill  be now read  a  secondtime. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend the Butter Fat Levy Act 1965-1966. That Act empowers the raising of levies for 3 purposes, namely for research, for sales promotion and for the operations of the Australian Dairy Produce Board. The present Bill repeals those sections of the Butter Fat Levy Act 1965-1966 which relate to levy for research purposes. As already explained, funds for research in this industry are to be raised by virtue of the provisions of the Dairying Research Levy Bill. I commend this Butter Fat Levy Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Poke)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
In my second reading speech on the Dairying Industry Bill 1972, I referred to the Government's decision that the bounty payable on the export of processed milk products will be continued for each of the 5 years commencing on 1st July 1972. The Government has decided to maintain the maximum amount of bounty payable at $800,000 per year for each of the years. This is the amount that the Government has set aside for payment as bounty on processed milk products exports for each year since 1964-65. The purpose of this Bill is to implement the Government's decision by extending to 30th June 1977 the operations of the Processed Milk Products Bounty Act. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Poke)  adjourned. 
 I think  Senator Poke  would agree wilh me that each repatriation case is a matter that has to be looked at individually by the Repatriation Department. I cannot give a general answer. I do believe that the services and facilities offered by the Repatriation Department are second to none. Nevertheless, I am concerned about the case which the honourable senator presented tonight. J shall certainly present it to the Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Holten)  and endeavour to get what assistance I can from him. 
I am aware of the intensive operation of the South Australian Department of Agriculture as well as the Departments of Agriculture in many other States - including my own State of Western Australia - into the fruit fly problem. I recognise there are markets that could be opened up in the Near East if Australia could give a fruit fly clearance to these markets. I will put the honourable senator's suggestion to the Minister for Primary Industry, but I think it should, more appropriately, be put to the Australian Agricultural Council. 
I am dealing with the first Bill, the Dairying Industry Bill 1972. I have asked that the second reading speech of 7 pages be incorporated in Hansard. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT - Is leave granted? 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT - Order! Leave is not granted. 
The current 5-year dairying industry stabilisation plan, which is the fifth successive plan, is due to expire on 30thJune next. Representatives of the industry have submitted proposals for a new 5-year plan which include provision for a 2-price quota scheme. The proposals have taken into account the uncertainties facing the industry, particularly in view of Britain's decision to enter the Common Market. They are based on the recognition that it would be in the long term interests of dairy farmers for future production to be kept at a level which can be sold at satisfactory prices. The industry representatives consider that their proposals for a 2-price quota scheme will achieve this objective while maintaining a sound industry in each State. 
In its simplest terms the scheme provides for the establishment of a national butterfat quota, based on home and overseas market requirements, the allocation of that quota amongst the States being on production over a recent base period. State dairy authorities would be responsible for the allocation of quotas among farmers. A premium price would be payable on quota production whilst over-quota production would receive only the basic export price. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT  - Copies of the speech will be taken around to honourable senators. 
Each farmer would thus be free to determine his optimum level of production in the light of the level of his quota and the price he receives for quota and over-quota butterfat. The industry organisations considered a number of alternative measures to control production but came to the conclusion that a 2-price quota scheme afforded the best means of meeting the needs and circumstances of the industry. The proposals for a 2-price quota scheme were unanimously endorsed on 1st November by an Australia-wide meeting of dairy industry organisations representing farmers, factories, distributors and exporters. 
Copies have arrived and are now being distributed. The proposals were subsequently considered by State Ministers at the meeting of the Australian Agricultural Council on 15th February 1972. While there was general agreement that the immediate implementation of the quota proposals was not warranted until market circumstances changed, the Australian Agricultural Council accepted in principle the necessity to plan for a flexible scheme of production control which could be applied when necessary. The Victorian Government stressed the need for any scheme to have temporary application if it became necessary to meet reduced export markets. All governments however agreed to proceed with the planning of a mutually acceptable control mechanism so that it can be available for implementation if necessary. In accordance with the decision of the Australian Agricultural Council a conference of State and Federal officials has since been held to consider the industry proposals and how they could be modified to suit the differing requirements of each State. A report has been prepared for the consideration of the Council and further developments will depend on the reaction of State Ministers to the report. 
In the circumstances there is no possibility of legislation being enacted to provide for a scheme of production control by 1st July. However, the acceptance by the industry of such complex and far-reaching proposals and the indication of a preparedness to act by State governments on a mutually acceptable control mechanism has been a significant achievement. The Government considers that a vital factor in the next stabilisation plan for the dairy industry is the preparedness of the States to introduce whatever State legislative measures may be necessary to establish an effective production control mechanism for use at such stage as may be necessary. In addition to the proposals for a 2-price quota scheme the main industry recommendation in relation to dairy stabilisation for the next 5 years is that Commonwealth financial assistance be provided at a minimum of $40. 8m each year which was the amount of Commonwealth bounty granted to the dairy industry for 1971-72. 
Because of the uncertainties associated with the longer term outlook for dairy products, particularly with Britain's entry into the European Economic Community, the Government recognises the need for an assurance of continuing Government support to the dairy industry. Accordingly the Government has decided to allocate for each of the next 5 years a minimum of $27m as Commonwealth financial assistance for butter and cheese and related butterfat products produced in Australia. Honourable senators will recall that this is the basic amount provided each year since 1957 under the last 3 stabilisation plans. For each year of the current plan the basic amount has been supplemented by special payments following sterling devaluation in November 1967. 
The actual amount of Commonwealth assistance for the next 5 years will be determined each year in the light of the needs of the industry and taking into account the action taken by the States in the adoption of an effective scheme to control production but it will not be less than $27m. The amount of bounty for butter and cheese production in 1972-73 will be considered by the Government later this year and included in the Budget in accordance with the usual practice. Under the existing legislation, which authorises the payment of bounty and specifies the procedure to be followed in disbursing the bounty to dairy farmers, bounty is payable only until 30th June 1972. The purpose of this Bill is to extend the existing provisions of the legislation to provide for the payment of bounty on the production of butter, cheese and other related products containing butterfat for a further 5 years ending on 30th June 1977. 
The Government has also decided that the bounty pyable on the export of processed milk products will be continued for each of the 5 years of the new plan. The Government's decision in this regard is reflected in a Processed Milk Products Bounty Bill which I am introducing in conjunction with this Bill and would wish to be considered concurrently with this Bill. The Australian dairy industry has taken advantage of the present strong market situation to diversify and develop alternative outlets away from the United Kingdom as an insurance against the loss of access to the United Kingdom market when Britain joins the European Economic Community early next year. However, we would be deluding ourselves if we were to act on the premise that the present supply situation for dairy products is going to remain indefinitely or that there will be assured markets for unlimited quantities of dairy produce. Already there are factors starting to show which could lead to a weakening of the present strong market situation, particularly for butter. 
As far as the Commonwealth Government is concerned it is essential that there be some mechanism which is recognised by the States so that, if there is to be a necessity for the adoption of production controls, the amount of Commonwealth assistance available can be directed immediately in a manner designed to enable a sound industry to be maintained in each State. In dairying as in all our primary industries it is essential that there be a relationship between what is produced and what can be sold at satisfactory prices. When the effective production control mechanism is settled those points of the plan that are additional to the bounties provided for in this Bill and its complementary Processed Milk Products Bounty Bill and that will require arrangements between the Commonwealth Government, State governments and industry bodies, will be spelt out as necessary in legislation. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Poke)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to authorise the imposition of levies on whole milk or on butter fat as the case may he. The levy will be payable on either a butter fat or a gallonage basis, according to the. normal practice of payment to the producer by the factory or plant that he supplies. The legislation provides for the maximum levy to be either 12c per cwt of butter fat or 0.04c per gallon of whole milk produced and sold. In the case of butter fat, this represents no change from the existing arrangements for research purposes under the Butter Fat Levy Act 1965-1966. The maximum rate of levy proposed to be applied to whole milk is equivalent to the maximum rate applicable to butter fat. Conversion is based on a 3.6 per cent butter fat content in whole milk, a level which is already being met by fluid milk producers in all States. 
The operative rates will be less than the maximum rates laid down in the Bill now before the House. The operative rate that is ruling on butter fat at the present time is 10c per cwt. The comparable operative rate for whole milk will be 0.033c per gallon. These operative rates and any subsequent alterations will be prescribed by regulation after recommendation to the Minister for Primary Industry by the Dairying Research Committee. 1 stress that there is no increase involved in the rates of levy on dairy produce. Levy collections will be payable initially by the purchaser in the first instance of the milk or cream concerned, and will be recoverable from the farmer who produced and sold that milk or cream. Where, in the. chain of production and distribution, milk or cream or butter fat is resold, there will be arrangements made to ensure that the commodity is not levied a second time. It is expected that the sums raised for research purposes by these levies will increase compared to Current 1971-72 receipts by approximately $150,000 to $160,000. This increase will be matched by a comparable increase in the Government's obligation to contribute, so making available over $300,000 a year more for dairying research. 1 commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Poke)  adjourned. 
-BROCKMAN - On 8th March  Senator Laucke  asked the following question without notice: 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Towards the end of last year an investigation was made by officers of the Department of Primary Industry and the Lands Department of South Australia into problems of finance and rentals confronting war service settlers on Kangaroo Island, to enable a general review of the situation there. What is the current position in respect of this review? When will the determinations in respect of it be announced. Further, is it a fact that recently the South Australian Minister of Lands, the Director of Lands and soldier settler representative of zone 5 in South Australia conferred with the Minister for Primary Industry in an endeavour to resolve problems in regard to rentals and related matters? What has been the outcome of this conference? Finally, will a determination favourable to zone 5 settlers flow on to similar betterment of the position of Kangaroo Island settlers, 
The Minister for Primary Industry has supplied the following answer to the honourable senator's question:  1 refer to the honourable senator's question of 8th March 1972 concerning War Service Land Settlement in South Australia. The Minister for Primary Industry has now provided me with further information on the matters raised. The conference on Zone 5 matters to which the honourable senator referred took place on the 2nd of March and all the settlers in the area have now signed their leases. The decisions relative to Zone 5 are specific to that area. The review of problems confronting settlers under the War Service Land Settlement Scheme on Kangaroo Island is a separate undertaking. The problems are most complex and the review is still proceeding. 
-BROCKMAN - On 12th April 1972  Senator Lawrie  asked the following question without notice: 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry inform the Senate why the Cannon Hill, Brisbane, abattoir has lost its licence to process meat for sale in the United States? How long is this suspension likely to last? I point out that the peak of the meat export season is approaching. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has supplied the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The certification of the Cannon Hill abattoir to prepare meat for the United States market was withdrawn on 11th April 1972. This action was taken because of the failure of the establishment to conform with United States requirements on several counts, the details of which have been furnished to the Metropolitan Public Abattoir Board. 
It is not possible to say for how long the suspension is likely to continue as the rectification of the deficiencies is a matter for the Board. However, the Board is anxious to have its establishment reinstated and it could be anticipated that the premises will be reviewed quickly as soon as the Board considers that the adjustments have been satisfactorily completed. 
I understand that the matter is still being discussed by representatives of the Services and the Department of Supply. 
1 recall the points as put forward by the honourable senator. I will not answer the part of his question relating to the honourable member in the other place. I will approach the Minister for Primary Industry and ask whether the report can be made available to the Parliament. 
1 am aware that there is some dissatisfaction with the rural reconstruction scheme. But I point out to the honourable senator that when the Minister for Primary Industry announced the introduction of this scheme I do not think he envisaged that he would not be without problems. At that time, only one State had an authority such as this set up within its borders. This meant that most States had to introduce legislation to set up an authority. There has been considerable delay in setting up the authority and making the money available. 1 instance that until recently total assistance approved by the States was in the vicinity of $59m but that only $25m has been made available to the applicants. I shall bring to the attention of the Minister the points raised by the honourable senator and obtain whatever information I can. 
The 
Minister for Primary Industry did make a statement on this matter and if the honourable senator desires he can have a copy of it after question time. As to compensation, the Commonwealth is still seeking the advice of the States, so that no final figure is available at present. As to the quantity of meat to be sold in the United States this year and the proportion of the total quota likely to be affected, I cannot give the honourable senator an answer but I shall seek that information and give it to him as soon as possible. 
Pursuant to section 26 of the Tobacco Marketing Act 1965-66. I present the sixth annual report of the Australian Tobacco Board regarding the operation of the Act for the year ended 31st December 1971, together with financial statements and the AuditorGeneral's report on those statements. 
I do not know whether the honourable senator wants me to say yes to the early part of his question, but I do. He can treat that how he likes. 
Can I go on? 
In that case I will say that I have nothing further to add to the Prime Minister's statement. 
The new storage cost of the Fill aircraft is $200,000. 
I have noted the remarks of the Leader of the 
Opposition and  Senator Byrne,  and I will endeavour, with the Leader of the Government, who will be going away early next week, to facilitate a debate as soon as possible. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
In the past it has not been the policy of the Department to make available publicly the name of a successful tenderer or the purchase price of an aircraft. However, in recent times the Department has adopted  a  new policy of making the price and the name of the successful tenderer available to the unsuccessful tenderers. I understand that in this case the Minister is prepared to reveal the price received for the aircraft and the name of the successful tenderer. The successful tenderer was  Mr Singh  and the price received was $8,555. It is stipulated that the aircraft must be exported within 90 days of the date of sale, which was 14th April 1972. 
At the present time, one, 2, 3 and 4-bale lots are handled under the price averaging plan. There has been a considerable amount of criticism, both by the trade and by the producers, of this scheme. The Australian Wool Industry Conference and the Australian Wool Commission have presented a plan which is called the lot building plan. They have estimated that this will mean a good deal of saving for producers. A figure has been given, but doubts have been expressed as to whether it is as good as the industry indicates. At the present time I know of no estimate of what the cost will be. I think that is one of the things that the industry is looking into at the present time. If I can obtain a firm figure for the honourable senator I will give it to him. 
The total cost of $US324m includes not only the fly away cost of the aircraft but also the cost of spares, spare engines, ground support equipment, training, technical manuals and all other items that go into the buying of the aircraft. There is a great deal of misunderstanding in relation to this matter. Some people say that we are getting 24 aircraft so they divide the total cost by 24 and then claim that that gives the cost of each aircraft. It does not matter what aircraft we buy, we pay the fly away cost for the aircraft then we have to buy the ground support equipment for them and the technical manuals to give to the technical staff. The cost of training and everything else, is also added. The $US344m is the total cost of the whole project. 
I cannot give the amount at present, but a figure of some millions of dollars was being bandied around. We had talks with the officials when they were here last. The amount was reduced to less than $750,000. 

 - Mr 

Reece has only recently come into office. I would have to check with the Prime Minister's Department as to whether he has made such a submission. Therefore, I ask the honourable senator to put his question on notice. 
I have seen the report. It arises out of the fact that earlier in the year I issued an Air Staff requirement for a replacement for the Winjeel aircraft. Quite a number of proposals were received by the Department of Air and a paper evaluation was carried out to reduce the proposals to a short list. At the present time a practical evaluation is being carried out. A team of RAAF officers together with departmental technicians, who are in England at the present time, will be going to Scotland to carry out a practical evaluation of one of the aircraft on the short list. A further team is in New Zealand at present, carrying out a practical evaluation of the aircraft to which the honourable senator has referred. One of the requirements of the Government is that the companies which submit applications should be able to give to the Australian aircraft industry a proportion of the work to be carried out in manufacture. It is up to the companies to say how much work they can give in regard to the particular aircraft which they are putting forward. 
I understand that the story that the Minister for Primary Industry called for a hurrying up of the Randall Committee report is not correct. As the Prime Minister said in his statement on 2nd May it is hoped that the Randall Committee report will be in the hands of the Government in 2 weeks time. That is the position as I know it. In regard to the wine industry, the report is in the hands of the Minister for Primary Industry. At the present time it is being studied before a submission is placed before Cabinet. 
I had a copy of this report sent to me by the organisation to which the honourable senator has referred, and I read some of the recommendations including those in regard to shipping. In commenting on what action has been taken, 1 should say that perhaps the Committee's recommendations have been overtaken by a turn of events. I refer to the recent meeting in Brussels where the  Chairman  of the Australian Wool Board together with shippers, met the Australia to Europe Conference line and obtained a reduction in wool freights to Europe over the next 3 years. The shippers declined offers from the non-Conference lines and favoured the recommendations put forward by the Conference which gave them 3 categories of freight rates. At the present time I. understand that the shippers are looking at these freight rates. They will make a decision after they have considered all the details of the offer made by the Conference. 
Firstly, I say to the honourable senator that on 2nd May the Prime Minister made a statement in which he indicated that the report of the Randall Committee would not be available until about a fortnight after that date. No doubt, the Prime Minister and his senior Ministers will want to study the Randall Committee report very closely before they take any action. Therefore, I think that the House will be in recess before that time has arrived. I cannot see any possible way for the House or the Senate to consider the Randall Committee report before the end of this session. 
For some time now my Department has been carrying out an examination of alternative sites for the bombing ranges presently in use. Although it has examined a number of areas, no final decision has yet been made.  1  assure the honourable senator that I will convey his question to the Department so that it can add Longreach to the list of sites and carry out an examination of that area. Later I hope to be able to provide the honourable senator with some information. 
The 
Bureau of Agricultural Economics comes under the Department of Primary Industry. 1 am not fully aware whether the Bureau has made a submission to the committee, under the chairmanship of  Sir Richard  Randall, which is inquiring into the wool industry. A representative of the Department of Primary Industry is on that committee. The simple answer to the last part of the honourable senator's question, I think, would be that the Randall report has not been presented to Cabinet yet. 
For the honourable senator's information, I made no statement. I understand that  Mr Roberts,  the Federal  President  of the Aus tralian Country Party, has made a statement. I have not seen that statement or a copy of it but have seen only what was in the Press. I understand that  Mr McDiarmid  has made a statement; that statement also I have not seen. 
While not agreeing with all of the honourable senator's question, particularly the last portion of it. I think what he has said is in the main quite true.I believe that a large proportion of the parts of that aircraft are still being made in Australia. 
I am not fully aware of this situation. I ask the honourable senator to let me have a look at it. I will try to give him an answer tomorrow. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - In calling  Senator O'Byrne  to ask the next question, I draw attention to the time we have already spent on questions without notice. I hope that we will be able to deal with questions upon notice following this question. 
 I move: 
That, unless otherwise ordered, the days and times of meeting of the Senate for the remainder of the present period of sittings be as follows: 

<graphic href="052232197205160_14_0.jpg"></graphic>

The motion relates to the days and hours of meeting for the remainder of the sessional period. I do not think it is necessary for me to spell out the proposals, as honourable senators have details in front of them. The purpose of the motion is to gain further time on any sitting day for consideration of business. 
Honourable senators will recall that the practice, which has been followed for many years, has been that towards the end of the sessional period the work load builds up. To give honourable senators the opportunity to discuss thoroughly the various Bills that come before the Senate it is necessary for the Senate to sit extra hours. I realise that no one wants to sit after 10.30 p.m. on Tuesdays and Thursdays and after 11 p.m. on Wednesdays. So the motion, notice of which was given by the Leader of the Government in the 
Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson),  allows those times to stand. All that the motion seeks is that the Senate sit an hour earlier on Tuesdays and to sit until 6 p.m., although it has been the practice for the Senate to rise at 5.45 p.m. On that day, therefore, we will get an extra li hours sitting time. The same situation applies on Wednesdays. The motion seeks an earlier commencement time of I hour on Thursdays, together with a quarter of an hour picked up at the dinner break and at the luncheon break. The altered times will give an extra sitting time of ?,) ho-.::a each week. 
The motion has been moved because it has been predicted that the Parliament may rise on or about 25th May. Between now and then the Government will be introducing into the Senate Bills for its consideration. T think some of them will need a great deal of consideration and I would like honourable senators to have an opportunity for a detailed and thorough discussion on one or two of those Bills. I feel sure that the Opposition also would like a detailed or lengthy discussion on one or two of them. Honourable senators will also recall that recently we made provision for committee reports to be debated on Thursday mornings. Those debates take up to 2 hours out of the normal business time of the Senate. At present it is intended that those debates shall continue. To overcome the difficulties thai may lie in the period ahead, when we believe that we will be caught up with Bills coming from another place, the Government is asking that the Senate sit the extra 31 hours each sitting week. 1 have moved the motion. I hop? that the Senate will accept it. 
Pursuant to Section 23 of the Egg Export Control Act 1947-1966, I present the twenty-fourth annual report of the Australian Egg Board on the operation of the Act for the year ended 30th June 1971, together with financial statements and the report of the Auditor-General on those statements. An interim report of the Board was presented to the Senate on 8th September 1971. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to appropriate moneys to carry on the necessary normal services of the Government during the first 5 months of the financial year 1972-73. The total amount sought in this Bill is $ 1 ,3 1 7,790,000 comprising departmental, $797,290,000; Defence Services, $495,500,000; and advance to the Treasurer. $25,000,000. These amounts do not, of course, include the requirements for expenditure under special appropriations for which standing parliamentary authority is available under the relevant legislation. The amounts included for salaries and payments in the nature of salary represent estimates of the payments which will be made at existing rates of pay and employment levels over the 11 pay days falling with the supply period. The amounts included for administrative expenses are five-twelfths of the 1971-72 appropriations. Amounts included for other services are limited to commitments which departments will be required to meet in the supply period. No provision is made for new services. An amount of $25m is sought to enable the Treasurer to make advances which will be recovered within the financial year and to make moneys available to meet expenditure on ordinary annual services of the Government, particulars of which will afterwards be submitted to Parliament. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Wilkinson)  adjourned. 
I was not aware that a Department of Defence announcement had been made. My understanding is that a committee working within the Department of Defence is making the final preparations prior to presenting to the Mnister for Defence a report for his examination. No doubt, in due course, having studied that report, the Minister for Defence will make a submission to Cabinet for its consideration. 
1 saw the report to which the honourable senator referred, but I am not in a position to say whether the figures he quoted are correct. However, my understanding is that the Minister for Primary Industry is examining the whole matter of surplus of grapes, levels of sales of wine and the position in relation to wine stocks held by wineries at present. When he has this information, together with an examination of the Grant report, which is a report of fact, I believe he will be in a position to present a submission to Cabinet for its consideration. At present I cannot inform the honourable senator when that will be. 
I was asked a similar question yesterday. I said that on 2nd May the Prime Minister made the statement that he hoped that the Randall Report would be presented to him in the next fortnight. The fortnight ended yesterday. My understanding is that the Randall Committee has already produced an interim report to the Government and that it is about to produce a second report to the Government. I understand that further reports will be presented later. The Government must consider the reports and make a decision on the matter. Yesterday I indicated that the time lag would be such that the report could not be presented to Parliament prior to the winter recess. I will convey the substance of the honourable senator's question to the Minister for Primary Industry and if he has any further information I will give it to the honourable senator. 
I saw the article and I well understand the honourable senator's interest in this matter because over a long period he has questioned me in this place as the representative of the Minister for Supply on Project N. I am afraid that I have nothing further to add to what I said in reply to  Senator Bishop  a short while ago. If the honourable senator wishes, I will convey the substance of his question to the Minister for Defence, and if the Minister has anything to add to what I have already said I will pass it on to the honourable senator. 
It is true that these Royal Australian Air Force personnel are going to the United States of America and that they are going there to do a particular job. How long they will stay will depend on how long the job will take them. I will seek further information and make it available to the honourable senator. 
I am quite sure that the honourable senator is well aware that eligibility for assistance under the rural reconstruction scheme is a matter for the State authorities, working within the framework of the agreement entered into with the Commonwealth. I think the honourable senator would be aware also that each case is assessed on its merits and in the light of the individual circumstances. The viability of an applicant is based on his average production over a number of years and his income expectation over that period rather than on years in which production has been reduced by drought. There is nothing in that sort of assessment that precludes the holders of pastoral leases from obtaining assistance. In fact, the latest figures I saw for Western Australia showed that there were 30 applications for assistance from holders of pastoral leases. I understand that six of those applications have been approved. Approximately half of them have been rejected because of non-viability or because the holders of those leases were not in personal working occupation of those leases, and I believe that is the only circumstance in which leaseholders are not able to obtain assistance under the scheme. 
I feel sure the honourable senator is aware that already the Minister for Primary Industry has asked the Bureau of Agricultural Economics to carry out an examination of rural credit and the availability of credit to rural producers both in Australia and overseas. I will convey the honourable senator's question to the Minister. If he has any further comments to make, I will see that the honourable senator gets them. 
I saw the report. At this stage I do not know what action the Government intends to take, but I shall ask the Minister for Primary Industry to furnish me with a reply so that I can give it to the honourable senator. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to obtain parliamentary authority for expenditure in the current financial year for which provision was not made in the Appropriation Act (No. 1) 1971-72. The total appropriations sought in this Bill amount to $71,075,000. The Schedule to this Bill is the same as that contained in the document 'Particulars of Proposed Provision for Additional Expenditure for the Service of the Year Ending 30th June 1972* which was referred on 18th April for examination by the Senate Estimates Committees. Although additional appropriations are being sought, actual expenditure will not exceed the amounts included in Appropriation Act (No. 1) 1971-72 by $71,075,000. For a variety of reasons, it is expected that savings of about $28.5m will be available in existing appropriations to offset the additional appropriations now proposed. For reasons associated with parliamentary control over the appropriation of moneys for specified purposes, these savings cannot be utilised as an offset in the sense that the total new appropriations sought can be reduced to a net figure in this Appropriation Bill. Thus the Bill seeks parliamentary authority for additional expenditure in the divisions, subdivisions and items set out in the Schedule. To the extent that an item of any annual appropriation is unexpended the appropriation lapses at 30th June in accordance with section 36 of the Audit Act 1901-1969. 
For the information of honourable senators a separate document has been provided listing the estimated savings in existing annual appropriations. I emphasise that these are estimated savings. It is not intended to present an accurate prediction of the final expenditure under those appropriations, nor is it intended to imply that there will be no savings under other appropriations. The information is provided by way of background to senators' consideration of the additional amounts now being sought. The various items included in this Bill have been examined by the Estimates Committees and I propose to refer Only to some of the major provisions. 
The additional requirement for departmental salaries is $ 14.6m and provides for increases in salaries arising from arbitration determinations, reclassification of offices and additional staff positions approved earlier in the financial year. The amount needed to meet salary increases resulting from arbitration determinations that have become effective in this financial year is approximately Si Om and in accordance with established practice no provision for these was made in the Budget. Further appropriations totalling $ 13.1m are required for departmental administrative expenses including $1.4m for the Department of Civil Aviation; $1.8m for overseas representation; Sim for rents; $0.8m for the Commonwealth Railways; SI. 3m for increased allowances and other benefits for overseas officers of the Papua New Guinea Public Service as a result of the flow-on of salary increases in the Commonwealth Public Service; $0.6m for the Commonwealth Taxation Office; and $0.5m for the Department of Works. The balance is made up of a considerable number of appropriations each of which is less than $500,000. 
Additional appropriations amounting to $27.6m required for departmental other services include $0.8m for the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation; $2.4m for Commonwealth scholarships to cover a greater number cf awards and an increase in university fees; $1.2m for education services in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory mainly for increases in teachers' salaries; $0.6m is sought for payment to the Aboriginal Advancement Trust Account for the acquisition of land off reserves - further funds pursuant to the policy statement by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  of 26th January last will be provided in the Budgets for 1972-73 and subsequent years; Sl.Sm aid for Pakistan refugees before the establishment of the independent State of Bangladesh; $1.5m rehabilitation and relief aid for Bangladesh; $1.6m for migrant education to cover increased salaries and on expanded programme of activity; $0.7m for various services in the Northern Territory; $1.7m for broadcasting and television services, mainly to meet salary increases; $0.9m for repatriation pharmaceutical services; $8m for ship construction; and $1.8m to meet a rise in the number of grants under the Aged Persons Homes Act. The balance is made up of a number of appropriations each of which is less than $500,000. 
Additional appropriations totalling $15. 8m are sought for Defence services, including about $2.1m for increases in services pay and allowances arising from the Government's implementation of the Kerr Committee recommendations; and $4.3m for increases in salaries of civilian staff including the effect of arbitration determinations. However, it is expected that, for various reasons, there will be savings of $ 16.1m in other Defence appropriations. The Schedules to the Bills have been prepared in a new format designed to show, in each case where an additional appropriation is sought, the amount appropriated by the Appropriation Act (No. 1) 1971-72 and the actual expenditure for that item in 1970-71. This comparative information should further assist honourable senators in their understanding of the significance of the figures. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Wilkinson)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to obtain parliamentary authority for additional expenditure in 1971-72 amounting to $80.4m on various items relating to capital works and services, payments to or for the States and certain other services. However, savings of about $9.2m are estimated in expenditures under other appropriations in Appropriation Act (No. 2) 1971-72. It is expected, therefore, that the total expenditure will exceed the amount appropriated in Appropriation Act (No. 2) 1971-72 by about $71. 2m. Of this amount $45. 8m relates to payments to or for the States. The Schedule to this Bill is the same as that contained in the document 'Particulars of Proposed Provision for Certain Additional Expenditure in Respect of the Year Ending 30th June 1972' which was referred on 18th April for examination by the Senate Estimates Committees. 
When introducing Appropriation Bill (No. 4) 1971-72 I informed the Senate that savings expected in amounts appropriated by Appropriation Act (No. 1) 1971-72 had been listed in an information paper for the benefit of honourable senators. The information paper likewise contains details of savings expected in amounts appropriated by Appropriation Act (No. 2) 1971-72. Although additional appropriations of $3 1.3 m are sought for capital works and services, it is expected that this amount will be partially offset by savings of about $5. 6m in other similar appropriations in Appropriation Act (No. 2) 1971-72. As I explained in relation to the Appropriation Bill (No. 4), it is not possible to utilise savings under an appropriation to offset additional expenditure in another. Unexpended appropriations, of course, lapse at 30th June. 
Of the $3 1.3m now sought, the major requirements are $1.7m for an additional repayable advance to the Papua New Guinea Administration towards the construction of a township at Arawa; $5m for loans under the War Service Homes Act to meet the increased loan limit and to eliminate delays in meeting applications; $lm for loans to co-operative building societies in the Australian Capital Territory - this is offset by a reduction of $lm in advances to the Australian Capital Territory Housing Trust Account; $lm for the National Capital Development Commission to cover rise and fall variations to contracts because of wage increases; $15m for payment to the Post Office Trust Account to meet an expected short fall in postal revenue, increased liability for superannuation payments and additional funds required for expenditure on works to sustain employment in accordance with government policy. An additional $4.5m is required for buildings and works to meet rise and fall payments under contracts because of wage increases and other items. 
Additional appropriations of $49. lm are sought for payments to or for the States, the main requirements being $27m for non-metropolitan unemployment relief; $17.5m for a special loan to New South Wales, and $3. 5m for cyclone assistance in Queensland. It is expected that there will be a savings of about $3.3m in other appropriations for payments to or for the states in Appropriation Act (No. 2) 1971- 72. As in the case of Appropriation Bill (No. 4) 1971-72 the form of the Schedule to this Bill has been revised to show comparative information which may assist honourable senators in their consideration of the amounts sought. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Wilkinson)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to appropriate $370,594,000 for certain expenditures to carry on the necessary services of the Government for the first 5 months of 1972-73. The total amount sought comprises: capital works and services $313,533,000; payments to or for the States $32,061,000; and advance to the Treasurer $25,000,000. The amounts sought for capital works ind services are in general to meet continuing commitments. An amount of $30m has been sought for advances by way of loan to the Australian Wool Commission. Whether or not the Commission, in the course of reserve price operations, will be making net purchases of wool in the early part of the 1972-73 selling season cannot be foreseen at this time. In the event that net purchases are made and other sources of finance are not available to the Commission, provision is made for the Commonwealth to advance funds. Provision has been made in the Bill for a subscription of $10m of new capital to Qantas Airways Ltd. The company requires additional capital to assist in financing its capital equipment programme, which includes significant commitments arising from the introduction of Boeing 747 aircraft. The company will need this amount to meet some large commitments falling due in August and September next. 
In addition $5m has been included to provide for advances to the Australian Coastal Shipping Commission to assist in financing the 1972-73 capital programme of ship construction and other equipment. An amount of $0.8m is sought as additional capital for the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories. Amounts included for payments to or for the States are based on existing arrangements for approved payments from annual appropriations. Generally, they do not exceed five-twelfths of the 1971-72 appropriations but where the arrangement is for quarterly or half-yearly payments provision has been made accordingly. Other payments to or for the States' will be made from special appropriations andthe Loan Fund. An amount of $25m is sought to enable the Treasurer to make other advances which will be. recovered within the financial year, and to make moneys available to meet expenditure on services of the Government, particulars of which will afterwards be submitted to Parliament. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Wilkinson)  adjourned. 
 Mr Deputy President,  for the convenience of honourable senators I suggest that the second reading debate on the next 7 Bills on the notice paper, namely, the Dairying Industry Bill 1972, the Processed Milk Products Bounty Bill 1972, the Dairying Research Bill 1972, the Dairying Research Levy Bill 1972, the Dairy Produce Sales Promotion Bill 1972, the Butter Fat Levy Bill 1972. and the Dairy Research Levy Collection Bill 1972, be taken together and that at the conclusion of the debate votes be taken separately. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - Is there any objection? There being no objection, that course will be followed. 
in reply - I wish to say only a few words in reply. Firstly, I thank those honourable senators who have made a contribution to the debate and I thank the Senate for the passage of this legislation without amendment. A great deal has been said this afternoon about the Bills. The discussion has ranged over a wide area. No doubt that has been due to the fact that the dairying industry could experience great changes in the next 5 years. Those changes probably will be brought about by Britain's entry into the European Economic Community, which could have serious implications for Australia's butter and cheese trade with Britain. I do not want to traverse the whole of the debate on the motion for the second reading of this legislation. The only Bill on which there will be discussion at the Committee stage is, I understand, the Dairy Research Levy Collection Bill. As there is no objection by the Opposition or  the Australian Democratic Labor Party to the measure,  I  do not think  I  should comment any further on them.  I  suggest that the question be put on each of the 7 Bills. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
The present position is that the Minister for Supply has initiated a study. When this is completed, he will no doubt make a submission to the Government. I think that the honourable senator should put the remainder of his question on notice so that the Minister for Supply may answer it. 
On 2nd May the Prime Minister issued a statement in regard to the Randall report and I have nothing to add at this stage to that statement. 
I am not responsible for what my colleague,  Mr Maisey,  may say but I will fight for the right of the honourable member to say what he believes. That does not often happen in other parties. 
J have not seen the figures to which the honourable senator refers. Until I have seen those figures and have had a study made of them I am not in a position to answer the honourable senator's question. 
Once the levy has been deducted from the proceeds due to the producer, the producer then is considered by the Government to have met his liability. If that levy has not been passed on to the Government, the Government must approach the factory or the purchaser. It becomes the responsibility of the purchaser to pay the Commonwealth Government. If that levy has been deducted from the payment made by the purchaser to the producer, the producer is considered to have met his liability. 
Subclause (8.) provides, (8.) Where the Minister is satisfied that it would, by reason of special circumstances, be unreasonable to require a person to pay, or to pay, in full, an amount payable by him under subsection (1.) of this section, the Minister may release that person in whole or in part from his liability- 
The sub-clause continues:  . . but such a release docs not affect the liability of any other person. 
That means 'the factory'. I am told by my advisers that 'him' in that sub-clause means the factory'. I say to the honourable senator that we will not get anywhere on this question. I have given him as much information as I have. May I look at what the honourable senator has said, after this Bill is passed, and get the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  to write to him on it? 
-BROCKMAN- The 
Minister for Repatriation has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The allowance paid to the wife of a T &amp; P.I. ex-serviceman, which is one component of a total war compensation structure, is presently $4.05 a week. 
The allowance was last increased in 1964, Prior to that it was $3.55 a week. 
It is the usual policy of the Government in a situation like this to ask for offset orders or part manufacture opportunities. Because of the economics of the project - it is only a small undertaking - the Government might decide in its wisdom in this case not to insist on offset orders being placed or on parts being manufactured in Australia. But that is something which has to be thrashed out. Until the representatives of the Department of Air have made their survey of both the New Zealand project and the Scottish project, I will not really be in a situation to answer the honourable senator's question. 
The 
Grant inquiry was an inquiry of fact into the industry. Professor Grant has made his report to the Minister for Primary Industry, who is studying it and who will no doubt put a submission on it to Cabinet at a later date. 
Last Thursday  Senator Cavanagh  asked me the meaning of certain aspects of clause 6 of the Dairying Research Levy Collection Bill. The honourable senator's questions related to who, in the ultimate, bears the levy, the collection of which is the subject matter of the Bill now before us. The answer is clear and simple. The producers requested this research scheme in the first instance. More recently they requested that the scope of the scheme be broadened to include whole milk. The producers accepted that it was their responsibility to pay the levy. The Government, for its part, is happy to match the expenditure of the funds so raised. What happens in the normal course of events is that the producers' milk is delivered to his factory or depot. The factory sends the producer an account sales and a cheque in payment after deducting the appropriate small amount of levy. 
Subsequently the factory sends a cheque to the Department of Primary Industry in payment of the aggregate amount of levy which the factory has deducted from ils suppliers in the previous months. This payment to the Department is to be made not later than 28 days after the end of the month concerned. As 1 said, this is a normal procedure. It has worked very smoothly in the past. I have no doubt that it will continue to work smoothly in the future. In order to ensure payment or, as the draftsman puts it very well, for the better securing of the payment of the levy, the Bill in clause 6(1.) lays the liability on the factory or other purchaser to make payment to the Commonwealth of levy on the milk purchased. I stress that this subclause does not in any way shift the ultimate responsibility from the producer. However, having placed a liability on the factory or other purchaser the Bill goes on in clause 6 (3.) to provide protection to the factory against the possibility that, for any reason, a producer fails or refuses to pay the levy. I cannot readily conceive a producer failing to pay especially since, as I have already explained, the normal practice is simply to deduct the levy from the account sales. On the other hand no-one is in a position to say that such a refusal could never occur. It could happen, even though very rarely. To guard against such a failure the Bill permits the factory to refuse to accept further milk from that supplier unless the producer first provides the funds necessary for the due payment of the levy concerned. 

 Senator Cavanagh also asked about certain other sub-clauses in clause 6. The text of clause 6 (5.) simply means that where the producer pays the levy to the purchaser the producer is free of any further commitments towards the Commonwealth. Once the levy has been paid to or deducted by the purchasing factory it is naturally the factory's liability to pass that levy on to the Commonwealth so that the research trust account can be credited accordingly. As soon as the factory or other purchaser has made payment to the Commonwealth there can be no further claim by the Commonwealth against the producer. That this is the case is made clear by clause 6 (7.). I repeat that, as in all other research schemes, it is the producer who bears the levy. 
I do not know that I can take this matter any further. I do not know that  Senator 
Cavanagh and 1 are really at cross purposes in what we are saying. All I am saying is that the producer must pay the levy, but because he does not get the proceeds until some time after he delivers the milk, he comes to an arrangement with the factory or depot. I think it is usually once a fortnight that the depot pays to him a cheque for every gallon of milk that he has delivered. 
Yes. I said that in my reply originally to the honourable senator, but it can be once a fortnight. From that amount there is deducted the levy of .033c a gallon for every gallon of milk delivered by the producer to the factory. The factory, having deducted that levy from payment to the producer for his milk, is then liable to pay it to the Commonwealth Government, and it must do so within 28 days after the month concerned. I do not think the honourable senator and I differ on that point of view. 
That is the procedure that operates. If for some unknown reason there should be any breakdown in the arrangement between the producer and the factory or depot - and I cannot conceive a reason why there should be - and the producer refuses to pay the levy, then the factory can refuse to take his milk. I take it that the producer would then look around to find some other factory to take his milk. I am attempting to explain what these clauses are trying to spell out. In their complex way and step by step they are trying to translate into legal form the requirements for protecting the purchaser. I do not think I can add much more to that. 

 Senator Cavanagh raised the question that sub clause (8.) of clause 6 gives the Minister authority to remit the whole or part of the liability that rests on the purchaser to make payment of the levy. I draw the honourable senator's attention to the point that clause 6 in its entirety deals with the liability of the purchaser. In other words, it relates to factories and milk marketing authorities, cheese manufacturing companies and the like. It does not deal with the responsibility of the producer to pay. Such being the case,  Senator Cavanagh's  point about hardship is scarcely relevant. 1 make the further obsevation that no penalty is involved. The sub-clause relates only to remission of the liability to pay the levy. There appears to be no good reason to invoke the whole hierarchy of the judicial appeals system. In the case of failure to pay a bus fare, which was the example given by  Senator Cavanagh,  a penalty would apply, but such is not the case in clause 6 of this Bill. 
 The Government opposes the amendment moved by  Senator Cavanagh.  This type of clause has appeared in levy collection legislation and has been the subject of criticism in earlier legislation which has established research schemes. These laws and justice provisions have been discussed previously with the Attorney-General's Department during the debate on the pig and dried fruits research legislation. The Bill before us conforms with other levy collection research legislation, and experience from the existing butter fat levy has shown that the averment provision is used most infrequently. When proceedings are initiated in the court the Commonwealth may find that it has to make an averment of certain evidence. In most instances the facts on which there is liability to pay the levy are facts peculiarly within the knowledge of the purchaser or the dairy company, and it is difficult for the Commonwealth to ascertain these facts. Clearly it is impractical to have the oversight of all transactions either by posting inspectors at all dairies and purchasing authorities or by taking some other such action. The averment clause thus assists the Department to carry out its responsibility to collect levy payments without causing harassment of the purchasers or dairy factories. 
It should be recognised clearly that the averment relates only to the facts of the case, that is, to the evidence. It is open to the person charged to bring before the court his own opposing evidence should he wish to argue that the matters averred are incorrectly stated. The Commonwealth cannot aver that a person is guilty. The Commonwealth in fact collects levy payments at the request of the industry for the benefit of the industry. It is not collecting a tax for Commonwealth revenue purposes. The Government would seriously have to reconsider its role in the scheme if the collection of levy moneys incurred high costs and administrative difficulties. This could have only adverse effects on the industry. In these circumstances it does not seem improper or unfair for the Commonwealth to avail itself of an averment provision when bringing proceedings against anyone believed to have attempted to evade the obligation of paying the levy. Therefore the Government cannot accept the amendment and will oppose it. 
 In the dairy industry the factories which are the purchasers of milk have been most cooperative over the years. My advisers do not know of a case in which we have had to use the provision under discussion but with other levy collection legislation we have had to use similar provisions. Therefore the Government believes that the provision should be included in this measure and it opposes the amendment. 
In the poultry levy collection legislation. 
Yes. It is very difficult to find out how many hens a particular producer has. In this instance the producer delivers his milk to a factory and the factory has all the records. Over the years the factories have been only too co-operative when departmental inspectors have wanted to look at their books. They have said: There they are. Have a look at them.' There has not been a case on record where the provision has been used. 
I have followed very closely what the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  said. This is not the first time that he has made this plea to the Government. The Government does not include this provision without reason; it has very good reason for doing so. I have been asked previously in the Senate about the history of this matter and I have given that history. I point out that in this Bill we are extending the area to include whole milk producers. The Government does not know whether what has happened in the past can be relied on to happen in the future. The levy is the responsibility of all producers, not just 90 per cent of them. Every producer must bear his share of responsibility to pay this levy if he delivers milk to a factory or to a depot. Because this Bill will operate in a wider field and the Government does not know what producers will do in the future, and because of its experience with other levy collection Bills, the Government believes that this sub-clause should be included. 
I well know the views of  Senator Murphy  and his colleagues sitting behind him and I understand them. However the Government, in its wisdom, believes that this sub-clause should be included in this Bill. This provision has not been included simply as a matter of course; the fact is that the Government has very good reason for including it. All I can say to  Senator Murphy  is that I have taken on board what he has said. I know that this matter will be a subject of discussion at a later date, and where possible in regard to future levy Bills the Government will bear in mind what  Senator Murphy  said. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Senator Cavanagh's amendment)  be omitted. 
The Government will oppose the amendment moved by  Senator Cavanagh  to clause 9. I think the honourable senator is aware of the debate that has occurred before and will recall that in some other research levy collection Acts prosecution for an offence could be commenced at any time. In the Pig Slaughter Levy Collection Bill 1971 and the Dried Vine Fruits Levy Collection Bill 1971 the Government introduced this provision which stated that prosecution could be commencced at any time within 5 years. The Government did this because of the remarks made by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  and his colleagues during debates on previous research Bills. The Government tried to satisfy the Senate by introducing the term of 5 years. 
It will be recalled that at that time the Opposition moved a similar amendment to the amendment moved today by  Senator Cavanagh.  I obtained an adjournment of the debate to discuss this matter with the Minister and his departmental officers. 1 returned and said that the Department did not believe that it could operate with the limitation of 12 months because quite often it was not aware of the offence until some time after it was committed. If there were a limitation of one year the only alternative for the Departmental officers would be to institute prosecution immediately for that offence. At the present time the Department likes to write to the offender and remind him of what has happened and perhaps settle the matter without any prosecution. The Department believes that it cannot do this in less than the 3-year period. In the case of the Pig Slaughter Levy Collection Bill and the 
Dried Vine Fruits Levy Collection Bill the Australian Democratic Labor Party accepted that this 3 year limitation must apply. It supported the Government in that situation. The position is not so much that the Government does not want to accept the amendment but that the Department believes it is impractical to operate within the period of 12 months. Because of that experience, the Government cannot accept the Opposition's amendment. 
-BROCKMAN- The 
Minister for Repatriation has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The general rate war pension is payable to an exserviceman who has incapacity accepted  as  related lo war service but who is yet able to work full-time, although under difficulties. The amounts payable range from 10 per cent to 100 per cent  of  the maximum, according to the assessed degrees of incapacity. The 100 per cent general rate is presently $12 a week. In 1968 the Government introduced special compensation allowance payable  at  varying rates  to  most ex-servicemen already receiving war pensions for severe actual incapacity assessed at 73 per cent to 100 per cent The allowance has been increased twice since then and the current maximum amount is $6 a week, (2) $11.50 a week. 
I am having a study made of the figures. I am not sure at this stage whether I can give an answer today, but after question time I will make inquiries and advise the honourable senator thereof. 
I wish to inform the Senate that the Minister for Health and Leader of the Government in the Senate,  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson, is leaving Australia tomorrow to have discussions with health authorities in Europe, the United Kingdom and North Africa. He is expected to return to Australia on 29th June. During his absence the Minister for Immigration,  Dr Forbes,  will be Acting Minister for Health. In this chamber I shall represent the Prime Minister; the Minister for Works,  Senator Wright,  will represent the Minister for Defence; the Minister for Civil Aviation,  Senator Cotton,  will represent the Acting Treasurer, and the Attorney-General,  Senator Greenwood,  will represent the Acting Minister for Health. 
I would think this would be made apparent in the answer that I will get from the Minister for Primary Industry in reply to  Senator Poke's  question. As  Senator Maunsell  said, the reason for the introduction of the deficiency payments scheme was to assist people who were hard pressed with commitments at that time. If the people concerned lowered their debt to storekeepers, banks or broking houses then I do not think it could be justly said that by this action those firms have been the only ones to reap something from the deficiency payments scheme. I expect the Minister for Primary Industry will respond to this question along those lines. 
The honourable senator knows as well as I do that in the other place today there will be an urgency debate on wool. No doubt the Minister for Primary Industry will contribute to that debate. In regard to the latter part of the honourable senator's question, the Government, through the Prime Minister, made an announcement on 2nd May that Cabinet would deal with this matter when it had received the Randall Committee report. Since that time the Government has received another Randall Committee report. But it is my understanding that a further report is to be presented. As soon as the Government has that information Cabinet will be making a decision and an announcement will be made later. 
They are the general rules that are laid down. 
Yes. The decision must be left to the discretion of the commanding officer and of the individual. My understanding is that in this case approval was given by the unit commander for this man to engage in civilian employment. I understand that approval was given on the basis that the man would be in employment with Metropolitan Security Services Pty Ltd. On the night to which the honourable senator referred this man was not working for that organisation. Apparently he was working in a private capacity, unknown to his commanding officer. 
As soon as the honourable senator raised the matter with the Minister for the Army  (Mr Katter)  the Minister immediately called for a report. When he found out that one of the five or six big burly men of whom the honourable senator spoke was a serviceman, he took action. The honourable senator said that he had information that one of the five or six big burly men was a man who, the honourable senator's informant believes, is a serviceman. So, he said, the Government was using the military for an incorrect purpose. I think that that statement is a little unfair. This man was off duty. Unknown to the Army and not working- 
I think that statement was a little unfair because one swallow does not make a summer. The man was working, unknown to his commanding officer and not at the particular job at which he was given approval to work. As soon as the Minister heard about it he called for a report. The report stated that a member of the provost corps was involved. The Minister immediately issued, as the honourable senator said, a statement that he was most concerned and that he treated the matter very seriously. He has asked that the orders be again promulgated in routine orders, and stated that this kind of think has to stop. 
I would have to take up that matter with the Minister. 
A night watchman can go on the rounds, look at buildings, see that doors are locked and so on.  His  job does not always involve him in this kind of work. As Minister for Air, I am most concerned. I will not tolerate one of my servicemen trying to act as a guard or as a picket in a strike. I will see that the Chief of Air Staff and the Secretary of my Department understand my feelings on the matter. I am sure that the Minister for the Army, from his discussions with the honourable senator, feels exactly the same way. He has already acted in this connection. I feel quite sure that I am also speaking for the Minister for the Navy  (Dr McKay)  in this matter. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - Order. Some time earlier I was required to give a ruling on a point of order on the matter of the withdrawal of words deemed to be offensive. It has been drawn to my attention that it is possible that my words in that connection could b? construed as meaning that the Chair had no option but to request the withdrawal of any matter deemed to be offensive by a senator. The practice of the Senate is that the Chair has a discretion in the matter. In the circumstances I exercised a discretion, but I would not like honourable senators to believe that in all circumstances it is obligatory to withdraw any words deemed to be offensive. 
Following the issue RAAF staff requirement for a Mirage replacement, the Department of Air has received a number of proposals. It is believed that one or two proposals might still be coming forward. Although the Department of Air continually carries out an evaluation of each military aircraft, the evaluation which will conduct the firm evaluation on the replacement of the Mirage has not as yet commenced operations. It will be doing so in the near future. The policy of the Government is that offset ordering or co-production is a firm requirement for any replacements for the Air Force. That will be one of the main considerations in selecting the successful company. 
As the honourable senator knows, some time ago there was an amendment to the United States meat inspection regulations, requiring that local meat and meat imported into the United States of America be free of bovine tuberculosis at post mortem inspection. This was of great concern to Australians associated with meat production, killing operations and meat export. Discussions took place between all interested parties and the Department of Primary Industry, and it was thought that the amendment would affect, in the main, cattle coming from the northern part of Australia. The producer organisations were very concerned and said that a national compensation plan should be introduced. 
That is so. The Minister for Primary Industry had discussions with the State authorities. Discussions are now proceeding between Commonwealth and State authorities on what they think that compensation payment should be and how it should be financed. Until we know the results of the examinations being carried out, I cannot give the honourable senator any further information. 
As a result of the talks with all people concerned in the industry, it has been decided to withold from export to any destination any form of meat or offal that has been affected in any way by tuberculosis. This is what the honourable senator was saying. This decision comes at a rather unfortunate time. It arises before the Australian tuberculosis and brucellosis eradication campaign has effectively eliminated the disease in Australia. At the present time Commonwealth and State bodies are deciding what additional steps are needed to strengthen and to accelerate the TB and brucellosis eradication campaign. The responsible committee is going in detail into this matter. It will give its decision to the Minister for Primary Industry for his consideration. No doubt he will take it up with his colleagues in the Australian Agricultural Council. 
I move: 
That unless otherwise ordered, Government Business take precedence over all other business on the notice paper this day. 
This motion is not unusual. It is one that is required at the end of each sessional period. It has been used over the years that I have been here. Earlier in the sessional period it was expected that the Parliament would rise for the winter recess on or about 25 May. Today is the 25 May and when one looks at the notice paper one finds that we have 13 Bills on it, and this morning various Ministers will be introducing a further 7 Bills. A little later on this morning we will have 20 Bills before us. Upon looking at the notice paper for the House of Representatives I see that another 17 Bills are listed. Not all of those Bills will come to the Senate this sessional period but one or two will. Therefore we find ourselves with this amount of business ahead of us when it was expected that the Senate would rise on or about 25 May. 
Recently it has been the practice on Thursdays for the Senate, shortly after we have reached this stage of the proceedings, to consider committee reports. Generally that lasts for a period of up to 2 hours. Then at 8 p.m. on Thursdays the Senate usually deals with general business. Upon looking at the notice paper I see that we are dealing with the Conciliation and Arbi tration Bill. I note that there have been 6 speakers from the Opposition side and that the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  is in continuation at present. There have been 5 speakers from the Government side and one  speaker  from the DLP. lt is my understanding that the Opposition has a further 7 members interested in speaking in the debate on this Bill. I believe that this is an important piece of legislation and that honourable senators should be given the opportunity to discuss it. Therefore I am taking this opportunity of allowing them to have full discussion during these 2 periods of the day which normally are allotted for consideration of committee reports and general business. 
Upon looking at the notice paper I see that we have other important Bills which I am quite sure honourable senators from various States will want to discuss. This leads me to the suggestion that today we should deal with Government business and try to get rid of the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill as soon as possible. Whether that would be possible today remains to be seen. If it is not possible I think we should sit tomorrow, commencing at 10 a.m. and sitting through until 4.30 p.m. At that time I hope to be in a position to say what we will do next week. At this time it appears quite probable that we will have to come back next week and sit until we clean up the Bills on the notice paper. By moving this motion I am taking the opportunity of alloting all the time available today to discussion of Government business on the notice paper. I seek the support of all honourable senators for my motion. 
 I am opposing the amendment. I reminded the Senate that whenI moved my motion in the first place I said: 'Unless otherwise ordered.' If the Senate, in its wisdom, believes that  Senator Murphy's  amendment should be added to my motion then, at 8 o'clock, we will call on Order of the Day No. 2. I have said that I want to get through the business and I am prepared to give an assurance to the Senate. I should like to go on with Government business all day. If we do not finish the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill to-day it could go on tomorrow. I would certainly give  Senator Murphy  the opportunity of referring to his matter before we get up. However, I understand that that arrangement is not acceptable. I understand that that suggestion is not acceptable, so I will let the Senate decide whether it wants to support the amendment or the motion. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be added  (Senator Murphy's amendment)  be amended. 
in reply - I did not speak to the motion when I moved it because I had already covered the subject matter when speaking to the previous motion. It seems that honourable senators need to be reminded. They may recall that last week when I moved a motion to alter the sitting hours I alluded to the position that we would have before us. In the wisdom of the Senate at that time it was thought that I should seek the adjournment of the debate, and I did so. The Senate was saying to me in effect: 'We do not think that we should sit an extra 3£ hours this week because we do not see that it is necessary.' I saw it as necessary at that time because I anticipated the situation in which we now find ourselves. The Senate did not agree with me on that occasion so I am asking the Senate to agree with me on this occasion. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I can provide the honourable senator with detailed information of the clip in 1969-70 if he is prepared to wait a day or two while 1 obtain the information from the Department of Primary Industry. I do not agree with the last part of the honourable senator's question. The wool growers have been treated equally. Their return depends, of course, on the quantity of wool that they send in for auction. 
All aircraft that are surplus to RAAF requirements are turned over to the Department of Supply for disposal, usually by tender. However, I will convey the question asked by the honourable senator to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who I think is responsible for this particular matter, and get some information for him. 
I cannot give the honourable senator a firm, answer at present but I will have a look at his question and get him some information from the Minister for Supply. 
I do not think that the advertisement to which the honourable senator referred indicates what he said it did. Therefore I do not think there is any need for me to comment any further on this question. 
My attention has been drawn to the article but 1 take it that by 'synthetic meat' the article means imitation meat. This matter is certainly of great concern to all those in the meat industry and who have any dealings with the meat trade. The Australian Agricultural Council, which comprises the Minister for Primary Industry and the State Ministers for Agriculture, has discussed this matter on a number of occasions. The Minister for Primary Industry has himself written to State Ministers and asked them what their Stales are doing in the way of reviewing their labelling systems. Therefore, that part of the honourable senator's question would be really a matter for the State of Queensland to attend to. I cannot tell the honourable senator anything about where the imitation meat, as I call it, is manufactured. 
The 
Leader of the Opposition asked me whether  I  recalled a series of events which had occurred over a 2-year period and whether  I  recalled what certain Ministers had said. Of course 1 do not recall that, although I do recall discussions which have taken place from time to time on the matter which the Leader of the Opposition has raised. 1 will examine the honourable senator's question and try to obtain some information for him. i MEMORIAL TO THE DESERT MOUNTED CORPS 
In this Senate there are 5 Ministers who each have a portfolio and who also represent all the Ministers in another place. The work load for the 5 Ministers in this place becomes very heavy at times. On top of this at the present time the Leader of the Government in the Senate, who is the Minister for Health and who represents the Prime Minister, the Minister for Defence and the Treasurer in this place, is overseas and his work load has fallen onto the shoulders of the 4 remaining Ministers in this place. We have had to distribute that work load over those 4 Ministers. This has meant that  Senator Greenwood  has taken over the responsibility of certain legislation that is before the House at the present time.  Senator Wright  represents the Minister for Labour and National Service in this place. 
I do not mind the honourable senator asking me questions but I wish he would ask me questions that have some substance in them. I think  Sir William  Gunn has made a very fine contribution to the wool industry over a very long period. 
No, you are not. I will not give the honourable senator any guarantees in this place on matters concerning the responsibility of the Minister for Primary Industry. If the honourable senator wants some information, let him ask me and I will seek it. 
I would say quite categorically that any resignations have not been brought about by any Government procrastination, but to answer the honourable senator's question I will have to seek information from the Australian Wool Board. I will do that through the Minister for Primary Industry. When I have the information I will let the honourable senator know. 
I will convey the honourable senator's question to the Minister for Primary Industry for his decision. 
 I cannot agree to the motion. A decision has been made by the Senate. I think that the 2 incidents to which  Senator Murphy  referred earlier are unrelated. I oppose the motion moved by  Senator Murphy. 
Question put: 
That the motion  (Senator Murphy's)  be agreed to. 
 Mr President,  I bear in mind what you said. I realise that tempers are running high, but I gave  Senator Keeffe  the opportunity of making an apology to the Chair. I do not think that he has accepted it. Therefore I have no alternative but to move: 
That  Senator Keeffe  be suspended from the sitting of the Senate. 
As honourable senators know,  His  Royal Highness the Duke of Windsor died on Sunday 28th May in France at the age of 77 years. As well as being a much loved member of the Royal family, the Duke of Windsor was a significant person in our national history as the central figure in the abdication in 1936. Although this event was of great moment from which the monarchy emerged perhaps even stronger, the Duke of Windsor may best be remembered for the qualities of essential humanity which he displayed throughout his li'fe. A most popular figure, particularly in his younger days,  His  Royal Highness sought always to identify himself with his people. During the Great War and the subsequent industrial depression he constantly showed his warmth and human understanding for the difficulties his countrymen were facing. He constantly broadened his horizons and made intensive tours of many countries.  His  warmth and humanity stayed with him always as essential parts of his character which never left him throughout the difficult period of his abdication and the years that followed. 
I would like to inform honourable senators that the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  has sent a message to  Her  Majesty conveying the Government's condolences. At the same time the Prime Minister has also sent to the Duchess of Windsor a message of sympathy in her irreparable loss.  Mr President,  T move: 
That an address to  Her  Majesty Queen Elizabeth II in the following terms be agreed to - 
We, the  President  and members of the Senate of the Commonwealth of Australia in Parliament assembled, have received with profound sorrow the news of the death of  His  Royal Highness the Duke of Windsor. On behalf of your people throughout the Commonwealth of Australia we express deep sympathy to Your Majesty and to the members of the Royal Family in the loss which you have sustained. 
by leave - I wish to inform the Senate that the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  left Australia on Saturday, 27th May, for discussions with government leaders in India, Bangladesh and Indonesia. He is expected to return to Australia on 9th June, During his absence, the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  is the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs. I also wish to inform the Senate that the Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme)  is leaving Australia today to represent the Australian Government at the Tenth Anniversary Independence Celebrations in Western Samoa. He is expected to return to Australia on 4th June. 
 Mr Maiden  holds a very important position in the International Wool Secretariat. He obviously speaks from a great deal of knowledge and I will not contradict what he says. However, I would like to read all his remarks before I do comment. There has been no procrastination by this Government. Over the years- this Government has been in office it has listened very carefully to what the wool industry has put forward by way of suggested changes in the marketing system and at all times it has endeavoured to carry out the wishes of the industry. On, I think, 16th March, the industry furnished to the Government a report of the findings of an ad hoc committee. That committee made certain recommendations which the Australian Wool Industry Conference endorsed. The Government is studying those recommendations at the present time. 
The honourable senator asked me a question along similar lines late last week and I suggested that he put is on notice. It it my understanding that the State Ministers for Agriculture, together with the Minister for Primary Industry, have put forward a plan of assistance and the Commonwealth is studying it as the present time. In relation to the latter part of the question, I will endeavour to get some information for the honourable senator and will let him have it as soon as possible. 
The honourable senator's question is a fairly allembracing one because it involves the policies of the State governments. I think the best way for me to answer the honourable senator's question is to obtain details from the Minister for Primary Industry, who will give him the information he seeks concerning that portfolio and perhaps some information on the position as it affects the States. 
I move: 
That unless otherwise  ordered.'  the times of the meeting of the Senate on Wednesday 3 1st May be as follows: 10 a.m. to 1 p.m.;. 2.15 p.m. to  6  p.m.; 8 p.m. to 1.1 p.m. 
I do this because of the pressure of getting the Bills through the Senate. I do not think honourable senators want to sit around tomorrow morning doing nothing when we could go on with the business of the Senate. 
First of all I say to the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  that 1 recognise the fact that the Senate cannot work properly unless there is a working arrangement between the Leader of the Opposition and myself as Acting Leader of the Government in the Senate. Since I have taken over that position I have recognised that this is a very important piece of legislation. I recognised the fact that honourable senators opposite would want to speak at considerable length on this Bill. Because of that attitude - 1 see that honourable senators on the Opposition benches agree with me - 1 have given the Opposition the opportunity of putting up all the speakers they wanted to during the debate on the second reading. Honourable senators will note that on Tuesday, 23rd May, the Senate discussed this Bill for 2 hours 30 minutes. On Wednesday, 24th May, we discussed it for 4 hours 15 minutes. On Thursday, 25th May, we discussed it for 6 hours 46 minutes. This makes a total of 13 hours 31 minutes spent on debating the Attorney-General's second reading speech. We find that the House of Representatives spoke on the second reading speech for 8 hours. Surely the Opposition cannot deny that the Government has given it the opportunity of putting up all the speakers they required in relation to this Bill. We have given the Opposition ample opportunity of having its say. 
1 recognise that, but if the honourable senator wants to bring that argument in I point out that we will have to go back to a lot of other arguments, particularly in relation to the debate on Senate committee reports. When I moved the motion in relation to that matter in the Senate I asked for the co-operation of the Senate so that to save time second reading speeches could be incorporated in Hansard. 
Yes, on Thursday. 1 say to the Leader of the Opposition that when we went into Committee we spent 31 minutes on Thursday, 25th May. A motion was moved that the Senate should sit from 10 o'clock on Friday. The Senate agreed to that motion and on Friday, 26th May, we had a discussion for 2 hours 30 minutes in Committee. Today we have spent about  3i  hours discussing this Bill. The Senate will recall- I want it to take note of this - that earlier this afternoon I moved a motion in regard to the rearrangement of sitting hours for tomorrow. The Senate gave me approval to call it together at 10 o'clock tomorrow morning. In speaking to the motion the Leader of the Opposition said that he anticipated that this Bill would be dealt with tonight or early tomorrow. This fell into line with my thinking. I was hoping to have the Bill through the Senate by tomorrow lunchtime. The Leader of the Opposition indicated this in his remarks earlier this afternoon. But tonight I find that we are up to clause 13 of the Bill. There are 69 clauses in the Bill. Tomorrow we will have from 10 a.m. until 1 p.m. sitting time. This afternoon I saw the reaction to the suggestion made by  Senator Negus  that we do away with question time. The Senate would not have a bar of that. No doubt tomorrow we will have an hour for question time and certain procedural matters will have to be dealt with before we get back to the Bill. By 1 o'clock the most we can have is one hour's discussion on this Bill. Honourable senators opposite say that in that one hour they are going to deal with their amendments. But up to this time they have not touched on one of those amendments. All we are doing here is agreeing with the suggestion put forward by the Leader of the Opposition that we will complete the Bill tomorrow but we are introducing machinery measures which will give us that Bill by 1 o'clock. I support the motion as moved. 
I said that the honourable senator indicated this. 
I have explained. 
It has been the usual practice in the Senate for many years, as far as I know, that when an honourable senator is speaking and he is called to order by the Chair he does as the Chair suggests. From time to time, in the course of debate, interjections float across this chamber. It has been the practice in the past, if an honourable senator believes that an interjection is objectionable, to draw the attention of the  Chairman  to it immediately. This evening, an interjection from  Senator Young  was allowed to float across the chamber without anybody taking a point of order. I suggest to the Senate that the  Chairman  of Committees probably did not even hear it because of the interjections and- 
I do not know whether honourable senators have hud an opportunity to sit in the chair when debates become intense and interjections are occurring. But I can assure the Senate, as one who has had experience over a long period in that chair, that it is most difficult to hear some of the interjections which occur. 1 believe that, in this case, the  Chairman  gave the only ruling that he could give at the time. If  Senator Wheeldon  believed that the interjection which floated across the chamber was objectionable, he had the opportunity at the time to rise in his place and draw the attention of the  Chairman  to it. He did not decide &gt;o lake this action. It was not until another incident occurred later on that he drew the attention of the Chair to this matter. I do not believe that this motion of dissent from the ruling of the  Chairman  should be upheld. 
The 
Minister for Primary Industry is fully aware of this situation. At the present time he is studying certain proposals which he plans to put before the Government. No doubt when all of this information has been considered by the Government the Minister will make an announcement. 
 I join in extending good wishes to  Senator O'Byrne  on behalf of the Government. Knowing his early background on the land and his work in the Royal Australian Air Force, I feel sure that he will have many more birthdays to come. 
 Mr President,  I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I ask for the leave of the Senate to have the second reading speech incorporated in Hansard. The speech itself is of 3 pages but there are attachments to it covering 3 pages. 
 I noted what  Senator Cant  said. What I said in the first place was quite true and I stand by it. I will endeavour to provide in my correspondence with  Senator Cant  information to show how the Department of Air makes these payments and the procedures it adopts. 
The honourable senator some time ago drew my attention to this article and I said I would obtain some information, which I have done. I understand that the term Super-wash' was created by the International Wool Secretariat to identify pure wool knitwear treated by either of 2 processes - the chlorine hercosett process developed by the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation in Australia or the dylan process developed in the United Kingdom. The former process has the widest application. It gives a very high degree of washability and does not impair the softness of handle or warmth of the wool product. It is claimed to improve abrasion resistance, textile strength and resistance to pilling in wool products. The forthcoming campaign is very carefully planned on a world wide programme. It could develop faster than the 3 years at present proposed. This autumn 2 million super-wash garments will be on sale in the United States of America. It is expected that by 1975 10 million Super-wash garments will be sold annually. Wool hand knitting yarns treated with the Super-wash process have been manufactured and sold in Australia for the past 2 years. 
I think the honourable senator will recognise that he was referring to correspondence between the Leader of the Government and himself which I have not had the opportunity of viewing. All I can say to the honourable senator is that I shall take up his question with the Prime Minister and obtain that information for him. 
Yes,  Mr President.  I move: 
That Government Business Order of the Day No.  1  take precedence over other business on the notice paper this day. 
I have done that because there are a number of procedural matters on the notice paper which would normally take precedence over Government Business Order of the Day No. 1. They include a notice of motion in the name of  Senator Murphy,  a motion in the name of  Senator Hannan  and the introduction of a number of Bills which have been received from the other place. I believe that those matters should be dealt with after the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill has been debated. I have moved this motion to give honourable senators the opportunity of discussing the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill. 
The amount payable to Kailis himself? 
I understand from  Mr Sutherland  that the total amount payable to Kailis is $343,000. 
Yes, that $68,000 will enable us to pay the $343,000. 
I now turn to what the Minister said in December 1971 during the Committee stage of consideration of Appropriation Bill (No. 1). The Hansard record reads as follows: 
We have not acquired the freehold. 
No, I did not. ] said it was decided that it would acquire the freehold interest in the land in 1969. 
It is a peculiar thing that this so-called prawn factory was established at Exmouth Gulf in 1963 and  Mr Kailis  just squatted on the land. He had no control over the land. He had not obtained a lease on the land from the Western Australian Government or anyone else. Later the Minister advised me that the decision to upgrade the Learmonth airport was made in 1965. This was in response to a query from me as to whether the decision to acquire the land was made while  Mr Gorton  was the Minister for Defence, or when he was Prime Minister. The Minister replied that the decision was made in 1965. Despite that fact Kailis was allowed to rebuild his factory in 1965. However, this factory still amounted to only a few sheds and a freezer.  His  workers were living in caravans. I then got on to the question of the amount that would be paid to Kailis for this land. I asked about the reasons for the acquisition of the land in view of the fact that refuse from the prawn factory attracted bird life which would place aircraft and Air Force personnel in danger, a situation that we all want to avoid. This was the reason given for the acquisition. I do not quarrel with that. But in reply to my remarks the Minister stated: 
It is all very well for the honourable senator who knows that if his Party were in office it would use every power to push this or that chap out of his business. 
What an assumption for the Minister to make, that the Labor Party would do that, even in an Estimates debate. When I am pointing to incidents that may amount to graft on the part of someone the Minister wants to play politics. 
But this Government does not operate that way. 
I wonder what the workers are saying about the statement 'But this Government does not operate this way' in view of the performance of the Government in this chamber over the past week. I wonder what the workers will say when they see the results of the work carried on in this Senate last week and this week. The Minister then went on to say: 
The honourable senator is talking about the Government bypassing the Parliament. No such thing has been done. Parliament approves and allocates certain funds to a department. The expenditure of those funds on individual items is a matter within the prerogative of the Minister concerned. In this particular case $275,000 was allocated under a Supply Bill, the additional funds for the item coming from the Treasurer's Advance. This is normal practice which is carried on by departments . . . 
I do not want to read any more of that. The  2  sources from which the Minister obtained the funds was  $275,000  from funds made available through a Supply Bill and the balance from the Treasurer's Advance. A little later in the proceedings I said: 
The Minister for Air  (Senator DrakeBrockman)  has attempted to make an explanation based on the Government's chaotic cost accounting system. First of all, he said that $27,500 of the money that was paid to Kailis- 
I beg your pardon, senator, I made a mistake. It is $275,000. 
No, from the Supply Bill. 
During the course of that debate I was assured by the Minister that at that stage - December of last year - Kailis had been paid  $335,000,  part of which came from the Supply Bill and part of which came from the Advance to the Treasurer. I want to impress upon honourable senators that the figure which had been paid to Kailis was  $335,000.  However, the Minister has advised  Senator Wilkinson  that the total amount payable to Kailis was  $343,000.  That is a difference of  $8,000.  Yet when we look at the appropriation made in these additional estimates we find that in relation to Learmonth, Western Australia, additional funds amounting to  $68,000  are required to settle claims in respect of property acquired from M. G. Kailis Gulf Fisheries Pty Ltd. This is  $60,000  more than the Minister told  Senator Wilkinson  was due to Kailis for his factory. I want to know just how these things are worked out. The amount of  $335,000  was paid up to December  1971; $343,000  is the total payment for the acquisition from Kailis; and in May another  $68,000  is required. That requires some explanation. 
I gain the impression, as a result of my raising this question, that it is suggested that we members of Parliament who represent the people of Australia should not raise these sorts of anomalies when they are brought before them; that we should remain dumb and allow people to use or abuse public funds or graft or do whatever they like with public funds, without us members of Parliament opening our mouths.  Mr Kailis  was interviewed by the Australian' newspaper. The article states: 

 Mr Michael Kailis, the Western Australian fisherman attacked by  Senator Harry  Cant in Parliament on Wednesday, is regarded as a millionaire . . . 
So he ought to be a millionaire, if he can obtain money in this way. He has been paid the sum of $335,000 for a couple of tin sheds, a freezer and a couple of caravans. With the addition of this further appropriation of $68,000, the total sum paid will be more than $400,000. 
The 42-year-old principal of Kailis Gulf Fisheries is a second-generation West Australian and a member of the State's leading fishing family. He pioneered the fishing of the big king and tiger prawns of the north. 
Let me say something about the pioneering of the prawning industry in Western Australia. The industry in Western Australia is dealt with on somewhat the same basis as the cray fishing industry in that State. In the cray fishing industry a boat is allowed 2 pots for each foot of its length, fishing is allowed only during certain periods and an embargo is placed on fishing outside those periods. All sorts of restrictions are placed on the cray fishing industry in order to conserve it in the interests of the nation and of continuing to receive the amount of overseas currency that it can provide. When the prawning industry was established, the government of the day - it was a Liberal government, by the way - was not going to give the fishermen open slather to destroy the prawning grounds in the north. So it fixed the quotas of boats that could fish in the various designated areas in the north. Exmouth was one of them. There were 10 prawn fishing boats allowed to fish in the north. I happen to know some of the people who are engaged in this industry. I have a brother-in-law who was a pioneer in it and who started in it way back in the 1920s. He tried to obtain a prawning fishing licence at Exmouth and could not obtain one. Of the 10 licences that were issued, Kailis was able to obtain 5. This is an indication of the sorts of rackets that are carried on in this industry. Do not let people talk about Kailis being a pioneer and about how he came to be a millionaire. These are the sorts of things that happen. The article continues: 
Some of  Mr Kailis'  sternest critics are among his own family. There was a falling-out somewhere back in their West Australian history, and he is accused of egotism for what appears to be a most generous gesture to some Indonesian islanders. 
This has been played up. The generosity of this man has even been written about in newspapers in New South Wales. He is not generous. If he is not getting a quid out of it he is not there. He is not there for his dancing. The article continues: 
On the Aru and Kai island groups, 700 miles north-east of Darwin, a consortium led by Michael Kailis is starting a totally integrated fishing industry to help the 30,000 islanders. 
He took an ecological study group to the area - a geographer, an anthropologist, a geologist and a marine biologist - and they believe a fishing industry can be set up to work the local tuna and prawns. 
Starting with a sawmill to get the islands' timber out (and this may later snowball economically) they will build trawlers to Kailis' specifications and then work the fishing grounds and process the catch. 
For his $750,000 in risk capital (which includes the first stages of schools and hospitals, a radio station and airstrip)  Mr Kailis  hopes to take part in the processing and marketing. 
This is the man  Senator Cant  this week accused of taking a $275,000 rake-off- 
The amount of $335,000, not $275,000, was substantiated by the Minister -  from the Federal Government because of his advance knowledge about plans for upgrading the Exmouth Gulf base. 
According to the senator,  Mr Kailis  deliberately spent money on his prawn plant there knowing it would have to be moved at Federal Government expense. 
To this,  Mr Kailis  replies: 'He can't even get my name right.'  Senator Cant  referred to him as George Kailis. 
Let me say this to the Senate and to  Mr Kailis:  I called him George Kailis.  His  name is Michael George Kailis, so he tells me now. But I do not know the name of any other gangsters or racketeers in this country. I do not know the correct name of Legs Diamond, Al Capone or any other racketeer. I do not associate with these people, and I think they should be exposed at every opportunity.  Mr Kailis  says that I do not even know his name. I have known members of the Kailis family for many years. I do not distinguish them by name. I know that this man was known as George Kailis. He says that his name is Michael George Kailis. I do not doubt that. But I will not have him accuse me of not even knowing his name. I emphasise that I do not know the names of any other racketeers. They all go under pseudonyms. I will not proceed any further with that article. I wanted only to raise those points. I then received a letter from  Mr Kailis  of M. G. Kailis Gulf Fisheries Pty Ltd. He writes to me: 
I refer to your statement in the Senate regarding the acquisition of Learmonth by the Commonwealth Government. It is quite evident that whoever fed this information to you must have had some malicious and mischievous thoughts in his mind . . . 
No-one fed the information to me; I obtained it from the Estimates. I do not want information fed to me. He continued:   . . because 1 cannot think of anybody giving such erroneous facts without having some ulterior objective in mind. 
Due to your statement, my name has been slandered from one side of Australia to the other and has caused myself and my family a considerable amount of embarrassment. 
I will not labour on the details, but I would like to point out that our Firm established the fishing industry in Learmonth- 
I know how it was established -  without any assistance whatsoever from the Governments, both State or Commonwealth. 
That is doubtful. He continued: 
In fact, since its inception it is remarkable what little interest both State  and  Commonwealth have given to these projects in the North, and to be humiliated and slandered by remarks made in the Senate for the work we have done up there 1 think is a very cruel fate. 
Surely with your experience in the North you know what conditions were like back in the 1960s. This is before all the Iron Ore development, the Radio Base and the Air Force base were even conceived. Therefore, I think  I  am entitled to an apology both in the Senate and in writing. 
I have given  Mr Kailis  my apology today and have said what I think of his propositions with regard to the acquisition of land. I want to emphasise this again: He got $335,000 last year, on the admission of the Minister; he got over $6,000 for the removal of his telephone; his total commitment, according to the Minister in charge of these estimates, is $343,000; and now there is an appropriation of another $68,000. I would like some answers to these questions. 
 Senator Cant  made reference to the Kailis business at Learmonth. He informed the Senate that he had read my replies to the questions asked by  Senator Wilkinson  during the hearing of Senate Estimates Committee E. The Department of Air supplied a book to the members of Estimates Committee E. On the second page there appears a summary of revised estimates.  Lt  the honourable senator looks at the notes on division 707, which deals with the acquisition of sites, he will see that the Budget estimate for acquisition was $515,000. The acquisition of land for the Department of Air is carried out by the Department of the Interior. The officers of the Department of the Interior are responsible for approaching the owners of the land and carrying out the negotiations until a final figure is arrived at. If the honourable senator looks at the notes he will see that the revised estimate is $671,000, which leaves a figure of $156,000 which the Department is seeking as additional appropriation. 
At the time of the original estimate the Department of Air believed that in 1971- 72 it would be called upon to pay the sum of $275,000 for this programme at Learmonth. That information was provided to the Department by the Department of the Interior. The Department of the Interior had said at that time that it believed that the final figure would be $335,000. These are the figures which the honourable senator used. At no stage when I was replying to him on the last occasion did I say that the figure of $275,000 was thought by my Department to be adequate. The finalisation of these negotiations has proceeded more quickly than anticipated. This is not unusual. It happens quite often. I think that I indicated at the time that the negotiations were nearing completion. The final figure is a little higher than that estimated by the Department. All it has done here is to take advantage of the Advance to the Treasurer to seek the balance of the final figure. The final figure for compensation paid to Kailis is $335,000. The cost of reinstatement of the telephone service is $6,521. There are some anticipated small or miscellaneous expenditures which add up to $1,479. That makes a total expenditure on the acquisition of that site and all that is entailed of $343,000. The honourable senator went into some detail about previous discussion and a letter that he had received. I will have a look at what he said. If there is further information which I can provide and which I think will be of use to him, I will make it available. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
That has been paid to Kailis. 
So as at last December $335,000 had been paid to Kailis for the acquisition of the land and buildings plus the $6,521 for the telephone service. The Minister has said to  Senator Wilkinson  that the total amount payable to Kailis is $343,000. On my reckoning this leaves a balance payable to Kailis after December last of $8,000. The Minister invited my attention to page 2 of the explanatory notes but I invite his attention to the explanatory notes under division 707 which state: 
The additional appropriation is sought to cover: a. Learmonth WA. Additional funds to settle claims in respect of property acquired from M. G. Kailis Gulf Fisheries Pty Ltd. $68,000. 
I only wanted to make that point clear for the Minister when he is having a look at this matter. I hope he will be able to give me some information on it. 
-I would think that even the Department of Primary Industry does not have the final cost of the Grant inquiry yet. No doubt there are certain bills coming in to cover expenditure somewhere along the line. I will take aboard what the honourable senator says and get the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  to reply to him personally. 
Proposed expenditures agreed to. 
Schedule agreed to. 
Postponed clauses 1 to 4 agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
No, I cannot give that information at present but I shall seek it for the honourable senator. Rather than have the honourable senator place his question on the notice paper, I will send the information to him in the form of a letter. 
The Leader of the Opposition asked me this question 2 days ago. Of course, I am not aware of all the points he mentions. 1 asked that the question be put on the notice paper and said that I would get the information for the honourable senator. I am not in control of the information that comes back to me, but the information will be given to the honourable senator as soon as I get it. 
I do not know whether I have all the information which the honourable senator seeks, but before coming into the chamber J did make it my business to get some information on this matter. I understand that at present there are no approved programmes between the end of America's Skylab project due to be completed by the end of next year and the first orbit of the space shuttle project which will not be before 1978. The National Aeronautics and Space Administration has advised that it has under consideration a number of changes brought about by its changed activity in space. Included in these changes is a reduction in the number of tracking stations from 23 or 25 to about 15. The Honeysuckle Creek tracking station will be converted to a deep space station, and this will lead eventually to the closing down of the Island Lagoon tracking station which is a short distance from Woomera. NASA's plans with regard to Carnarvon are tentative, but it is expected that there will be a reduction of activity there after 1974. 
I do not know how many committees are operating at present. However, I take it that the honourable senator, in preparing his question, checked on this matter. I take it that the position is as he said. I realise that these days the work of a back bencher is getting very heavy indeed. I can well understand what the honourable senator said about the work load of each senator in the recess period. I think that is a problem that we have to look at. I am not sure who is the authority with whom we can discuss it. 
That is right.  Senator Murphy  and I might be having an argument later today about the reference of a matter to a committee. I think we have to look at the position and look at it very closely. We just cannot accept a motion to refer something to a committee and then support it willy-nilly. 
I will have  a  look at the honourable senator's question and see what f can do about the matter. 
 I move: 
That the Senate do now adjourn. 

 Mr President, may I at this juncture reciprocate your remarks and thank the Senate for giving me the support that it has over the period that I have been Acting Leader of the Government in the Senate. 
Of course I would have to oppose this motion. I realise that the session has been a long one and has been a heavy one this last week. We have endeavoured to meet the situation by sitting longer hours and by sitting an extra week, but the Government wants its legislation to go through. I would hope that we could end this sitting by getting through the legislation we desire to have passed. I will oppose the motion, and we will be at the will of the Senate. 
I think it would be fair to say that at this time of the year there are always doubts, particularly when it has been as dry as it has been in many parts of Australia, on whether Australia will fill its quota of 407 million bushels on which the Government will pay a first advance. This is something that the Australian Wheat Board must consider very carefully in regard to how much wheat it has available for carryover from one season to another. I feel sure that if rains come in the near future, and if there are follow-up rains there will be a good harvest. I do not think that I can obtain any information for the honourable senator that will indicate at this time of the season just what is the position. 
As I indicated in the latter part of my answer last week, this is a matter for the Department of Foreign Affairs. I do not know whether the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs has any information but I understand that the 4 DC3 aircraft of which the honourable senator speaks have been made available to the Department of Supply for disposal. I will put the remainder of his question on notice and, when the answer conies to hand, T will give it to the honourable senator. 
I move: 
That Business of the Senate, Order of the Day No. 1, be postponed until after the consideration of Government business. 
If honourable senators look at the front page of the notice paper they will see the Business of the Senate, Orders of the Day. All I am asking is that Order of the Day 
No. 1, which normally would be due for consideration now, be postponed until after Government Business is considered. In other words, I am wiping off page 1 of the notice paper for the time being and going on with Government Business. 
With the concurrence of the Senate, I will amend my motion to read: 
That Business of the Senate, Order of the Day No, 1, be postponed until the next day of sitting. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I think the honourable senator would understand that I, representing in this place the Minister for Supply, would not be familiar with all that information. . Therefore I suggest that the honourable senator put his question on notice. 
I have not seen the statement to which the honourable senator refers. I do know that there is some concern within the grape growing industry in regard to the flow of brandy into this country. It is my understanding that representations were made to the Tariff Board for an inquiry into the brandy industry. It is also my understanding that representatives of grape grower organisations have gone before the Tariff Board and given evidence. No doubt the evidence that has been given will be noted when the final report is made by the Tariff Board. 
I think it would be fair to say to the honourable senator that an offer has been made by the United States Government and that this offer is under consideration at the present time. However, a report on the Phantom and the United States offer is now with the Department of Defence. While the head of the Department and the Air Member for Technical Services, Air Vice Marshal Hey, were recently in America, they obtained some further information on the offer. However, I want to say to the honourable senator that there is no truth in the statements he has made in regard to the delay of the decision on this offer, and there is no truth in the reasons that he has .given. The cost of the Phantoms is not yet known. If they are purchased, their cost would still have to be worked out between the Department of Defence and the United States Government. 
I do not represent the Minister for Defence in this chamber but I recognise that the Minister for Defence made an announcement relating to the purchase of this aircraft on behalf of the Department of Air. it is true that following the Air Force staff requirement which was issued earlier in the year for a basic trainer a number of proposals were put before the Department. A technical examination of all the proposals was carried out and, finally, a physical examination was made of two of the proposals. One was from Scotland and one was from New Zealand. Following the reports of the officers and officials who visited these two countries the CT4 air trainer aircraft was finally agreed upon. This was a redesign by Aero Engine Services Ltd of the original Air Cruiser aircraft which was designed but not produced by the Victa company. 
The Victa company produced an aircraft which was called the 'Air Tourer'. The company designed and produced a prototype aircraft which it called the Air Cruiser but it was never produced in this country. Following the decision by the Tariff Board not to offer assistance to the Victa company the company sold its design and tooling of the Air Tourer aircraft to the New Zealand company. The Victa company did not sell the designs and tooling of the prototype of the Air Cruiser to New Zealand until much later. That is the background of the aircraft which we have purchased. The facts as to the purchase of this aircraft were made available in a statement in New Zealand by the Minister for Defence. Spares will be made in this country not only for the aircraft ordered but also for all orders which may be placed in future, both military and civilian, for this particular aircraft. I shall make a copy of the statement to which I have referred available to the honourable senator as soon as possible. 
I would have to take that matter up with the Minister for Supply. I shall do so and obtain information for the honourable senator. 
I think the honourable senator will agree with me when I say that the kangaroo is one of the most popular of Australian native animals. Songs have been dedicated to the kangaroo and symbols have been devised to represent it. Perhaps it is the best loved of our animals. Whilst I am aware that some millions of pounds of kangaroo meat are exported, I am not aware that the facts are as the honourable senator has stated them. However, I will seek information for him from the Minister for Primary Industry, and I shall also make inquiries through the Minister for Immigration on his behalf. 
The honourable senator's question has covered a very wide field, but I will endeavour to answer as much of it as I can. It is a fact that since 1964 there have been 13 crashes of Mirage aircraft. It is a fact also that in recent months there have been 4 crashes, 2 of which are still the subjects of courts of inquiry and thus I cannot yet give the reasons for them. One accident was caused by a compressor blowing up, but so far as the accident investigation section of the Department of Air can ascertain at present this was not related to the other accidents. However, technicians of the Department of Supply and of my own Department are conducting a study to determine whether an inter-relationship can be established or to find some other clue to the cause of these accidents. An air staff requirement has been put out for replacement of the Mirage, but although a number of proposals have been submitted a final decision has not been made and will not be made in the very near future. 
I shall inquire from the Treasurer and if the figures are available I shall get them for the honourable senator. 
 This question involves quite a bit of policy. Consequently I should like the honourable senator to put the question on notice so that the Minister can reply to it. 
I am not aware of any informal meeting. 1 hear of lots of meetings being held around this place by members from both sides of the chamber so I have no further comment to make. 
Where are we going on this matter? I take it that  Senator Marriott,  as  Chairman  of the Senate Select Committee on Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse, would like to complete his remarks. I take it that the Minister in charge would want to say something then. 
Surely the Minister in this place who .represents the responsible Minister would want to say something. 
How long will we be on this matter? It will be a lot longer than 10 minutes. I do not see any reason why the debate cannot be continued on another day. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
As a second reading speech has already been delivered in another place and appears in the Hansard of the House of Representatives I ask for leave to incorporate my second reading speech in Hansard. 
 Mr President,  I desire to inform the Senate that the Minister for Health  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  was admitted to the Canberra Community Hospital today with a flu-like condition and that he will be in hospital for a few days. During the absence of  Sir Kenneth  I will be Acting Leader of the Government in the Senate. I wish to inform the Senate also that the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  is ill. In the absence of these 2 Ministers I suggest that honourable senators who had intended asking questions today relating to their portfolios or any portfolio represented by them in this chamber might place those questions on the notice paper. 
The progress that has been made is, I believe, quite good. Each of the Services has had the opportunity of studying the report in depth. Each Service Minister has written to the Minister for Defence giving his views and the views of his Department on this matter. Since writing, the Service Ministers have met the Minister for Defence together with the departmental heads in the defence group for further discussions. At the present time, recommendations on these matters are the subject of consideration by the Government. I would hope that an early decision could be made so that servicemen will know the extent of their future retirement pay scheme. It must be understood, I think, by all honourable senators that the whole question is a most complex one which needs the closest scrutiny, even if that scrutiny is only to ensure that servicemen get the best possible safeguards in their retirement scheme. 
We are all aware of the situation of which the honourable senator speaks, but how far the representatives of the industry have gone in their discussions with the Minister for Primary Industry I cannot say. However, I will certainly take up the matter with the Minister for Primary Industry in an endeavour to give the honourable senator some information on the present position. 
It is not a case of whether I believe  Mr Vines  has served the wool industry well. I think it is a fact that he has already served the wool industry very well. I would like to have a look at this question, make inquir ies as to what is factual in what the honourable senator has asked me and then give him a reply at a later date. 
It has been my practice since I was appointed Minister for Air to approve the use of VIP aircraft along the guidelines that I laid down in September 1970. On 2 occasions since then I have made available to the Parliament details of the use of VIP aircraft. I think that I have made available details of such use up to about the middle of last year. I will have a look at the situation and, if I can, I will make available information on the use of VIP aircraft from that time to the present time. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Since this question was raised by the honourable senator, the report of Professor Grant has been released as a public document and distributed to all Senators and members on 5th June. 
The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
No doubt the honourable senator will now be aware that the Government's decision on wool marketing proposals submitted by the Australian Wool IndustryConference was publicly announced by the Prime Minister on 20th June 1972. 
On  17th May  Senator Bishop  directed a question to me asking whether the report of the Department of Defence recommended a production run of 12 to 20 Project N aircraft. 1 can now advise that on 16th August the Minister for Defence said: 
The Government has approved the production of an initial 20 Nomad aircraft - previously known as Project N. The estimated total project cost is SO.Olm in 1972 prices. Eleven of these aircraft will be provided to enable Army Aviation to carry out ils approved roles. The remaining 9 aircraft will bc for sale to other users. 
I make available to the honourable senator a statement made by the Minister for Defence and also a statement made by the Prime Minister. 
On 17th August  Senator Milliner  asked me a question without notice regarding the reporting of details of the use of VIP aicraft in the past 12 months. 1 inform the honourable senator [hat I make available information on the use of VIP aircraft from the period in relation to which information was tabled previously to the present lime. Details have been tabled previously up to 28th February 1971. Therefore the information 1 now table covers 
VIP flights by the Royal Australian Air Force for the period from 1st March 1971 to 31st May 1972. Information pertaining to the period from 1st June 1972 to 17th August 1972 is being obtained and I shall make available these details at the earliest opportunity. The document which 1 now table embraces all details of approved applications for VIP travel and has been reconciled against the relevant flight manifests. I table that document. 
The honourable senator has not indicated when or where this person refused to say these things. I would like that information. 
If the honourable senators puts his question on notice, I will find out what this person did say. 
I wish to inform the Senate that the Minister for Health and the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson, is still in hospital and is not expected to resume duty until 11th September. During his absence the Minister for Immigration,  Dr Forbes,  will be Acting Minister for Health. In this chamber I shall represent the Prime Minister. The Minister for Works,  Senator Wright,  will represent the Minister for Defence. The Minister for Civil Aviation,  Senator Cotton,  will repre- sent the Treasurer. The Attorney-General,  Senator Greenwood,  will represent the Acting Minister for Health. 
On a number of occasions the honourable senator has raised this matter. I well recall the people whom he is representing coming to Canberra to discuss with the Department of Primary Industry a matter in regard to rent paid by war service land settlers. Now he has introduced this question. I know that the Minister for Primary Industry is examining this matter. I certainly will make representations to the Minister. Over the years his door has always been open for representatives of primary producers to approach him. My understanding is that in the very near future the Minister hopes to be in a position to make a statement on this matter. 
I think that the source from which the honourable senator obtained his information would be looking back to the years that we all recollect - the early 1950s - when wool prices rose quite considerably at the time of the Korean war. Although a few wool producers received quite good prices in the whole season, the industry as a whole did not. In fact, it suffered as a result of those prices. Perhaps the general manager of the Commission is thinking of that experience. Although I believe that wool prices could still rise, I am quite sure that no-one in the industry at the present time would like to see prices go too high. We feel the effects of increasing costs and I well recall at an arbitration court hearing at which 1 was present the advocate for the shearers saying: 'Well, wool prices are so high now that we believe that we should get our share of what the industry is reaping'. This too has an effect on the situation. The Commission can impose reserve prices but generally they are minimum reserves, not maximum prices. 
J have not seen the reports which the honourable senator says appeared in the daily Press on Saturday last - I was in Western Australia on Saturday - nor have they been drawn to my attention. This is a matter for the  President  of the Senate. I shall discuss it with him and should we then have any comment to make we shall make it. 
I think the Commonwealth has set the example with its own cars. It has been doing this for some time. I am not aware of the practice of which the honourable senator speaks but I shall make inquiries of the Minister for Supply and get some information for him. 
The price of the Fill project is still $344m; it has not gone up. I think that I had better look at the remainder of the question to see what is wanted. I will pass this information on to the honourable senator. 
Next May. 
On 17th August  Senator Drury  asked me this question: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to reports from representatives of the deciduous fruit industry in South Australia that unless the industry is provided wilh immediate financial assistance similar to assistance already provided in mast other primary industries it faces virtual collapse? Will the Minister consider the extent to which Commonwealth financial assistance in these circumstances can be granted to the deciduous fruit industry? 
The Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senators question: 
On 14th July the Minister for Primary Industry announced details of the Commonwealth Government's offer to the Slates on the introduction of a tree pull compensation scheme for horticultural industries. Under the scheme the Government will provide up to S4.6m lo the States for the operation of the scheme. The scheme will initially apply mainly to canning peaches and pears and to apples and fresh pears. $2.3m will be allocated to canning fruit and S2.3m to fresh pome fruit. This offer has been accepted, in principle, by the Stales and the money will provide compensation for removal of trees to growers who are in financial difficulties because of surpluses. This assistance is in addition to that applicable under the rural reconstruction scheme. 
The honourable senator will recall that last year the Commonwealth Government made available to the Slate of South Australia an amount of $ 1.29m lo assist 2 South Australian canneries to overcome problems arising from their long-term debt situation. The Government is aware of the problems stemming from production surplus to the requirements of payable markets, and the consequent effects on canners' liquidity and intake of fruit, lt is working wilh the State governments and the industry to find acceptable solutions. 
The question seeks a good deal of information which, as the honourable senator realises, I as Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry would not have with me. But I shall seek the information if the honourable senator places his question on notice. 
For the information of honourable senators, I present the report on the activities and development of the Department of Supply for the year ended 30th June 1972. 
On 26th May  Senator Bishop  asked me about offset orders won by Hawker de Havilland Australia Pty Ltd. The answer is: Hawker de Havilland Australia Pty Ltd has won offset orders from the Boeing Corporation to the value of approximately $5.2m up to 8th August 1972. Details of these orders are as follows: For Boeing 747 aircraft - packboards; for CH47 (Chinook) helicopters - landing gear, dynamic absorbers and machined parts; for Boeing 727 aircraft - rudders and ribs, elevators; and for 707/27 aircraft - spares. In addition the company has received offset orders from Hawker Siddeley Aviation, United Kingdom, valued at approximately $19,000. 
Yesterday  Senator O'Byrne  asked me a question in which he indicated that the Budget papers stated that over $3 6m in increased payments is expected to be made on the F111 aircraft and medium lift helicopters. 
He asked me whether the cost of the F111 had increased. In my reply I informed the Senate that the estimated total cost of the F111C project remained at $US344m. This is the same amount announced jointly by the Minister for Defence and myself in December 1971. 
The increased expenditure is a comparative increase in expenditure from the previous financial year. We expect to meet claims during the year from the United States Air Force for expenditure already incurred in the F111C project and for spares and other equipment already delivered to the order of $A30m. This amount will mean that at the end of the current financial year we will have paid $A240m against the estimated total project cost of $A302m, that is, $US344m. 
Regarding the medium lift helicopters, as senators are aware, it is expected that we will be taking delivery of these helicopters in 1973 and progress payments in respect of this project are expected to be to the order of $A15.7m this financial year. The total expenditure for aircraft purchases in the Air vote for 1972-73 is estimated at $62.8m. 
 The reputation of Queensland as a meat producing State is well known. As a primary producer, I know what a producer receives for meat on the hoof in comparison with the price that is realised in the butcher's shop. I would think that this would be more of a State matter but I will discuss it with the Minister for Primary Industry and convey any information that I receive to the honourable senator. May I say that I would be glad of any information that the honourable senator can give to me on this matter before 1 go to the Minister for Primary Industry. 
I have had drawn to my attention the statement made by the honourable member referred to. I recall again to the Senate that approval for the use of VIP aircraft comes under 3 authorities, namely, the Governor-General, the Prime Minister and the Minister for Air. The rules governing use of VIP aircraft were detailed by me on and appear in Hansard of 30th September 1970. Those are the rules on which approval is based. As Minister for Air, I deal with applications from all Ministers, including the  Deputy  Prime Minister, as well as applications from the Leader of the Opposition and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. On 4th July 1 received an application from the Minister for Immigration who wanted to go to Ceduna and return by VIP aircraft on 3rd August. The application fell within the guidelines laid down and I confirmed that no commercial aircraft was available. Therefore I approved the use of a HS748 for the Minister to go to Ceduna. The ircraft travelled from Canberra to Edinburgh, Ceduna and Edinburgh and subsequently returned to Canberra. Under the existing cost of the trip was $1,379. The aircraft cost of the trip was $1,379. The aircraft carried the normal crew of 4, and also carried a navigator under training. The honourable senator asked me whether any member of the Australian Labor Party travelled in a VIP aircraft during the oil strike. There are 2 such men entitled to use VIP aircraft and one of them.  Mr Barnard,  travelled on a VIP aircraft on 2 occasions during that period. 
-BROCKMAN - - The disease referred to does cause considerable alarm to primary producers. This subject has been before the Australian Agricultural Council on a number of occasions. The mainland States have joined with the Commonwealth in a programme to combat it commencing January 1970. The Commonwealth makes a contribution to the States on a $1 for $1 basis totalling to date over $4m. Recently, because of the decision of the United States of America to prohibit the importation of meat of this type into that country, the Australian Meat Board made certain recommendations to the Commonwealth Governnent on what action it thought should be taken to try to step up the eradication of this disease. This matter was referred to the State Departments of Agriculture for further recommendation and it was discussed recently at a meeting of the Australian Agricultural Council. A final decision has not been made because there are still some points that must be cleared up. However, the Commonwealth is keen to speed up the programme in an effort to eliminate this disease. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition has asked a question relating to the whole of the defence group. I am aware of the reports that he mentioned, but at this stage I cannot give him details as to how the deficiencies that he outlined were arrived at. However, I can outline the situation in my own Department and I came into the Senate prepared to do that today. The deficiencies in the main are revealed by comparisons between American accounting and Australian accounting. The accounting in respect of purchases made by Australia is done in America. The information is fed into a computer where sometimes discrepancies are revealed. On other occasions the results have to be reconciled with what is shown by our computer figures. This is the general trend. 1 should like to examine the question asked by the honourable senator and supply him with additional detailed information. 
In my own portfolio 1 receive this sort of request regularly. It is rather difficult to say where aircraft and helicopters are to fly. Certain air space is set aside as flying areas. I take it that Murray Bridge must be one set aside for the Army. But certain restrictions are put on the aircraft; that they fly during certain hours and at certain heights. I will certainly make the Minister of the Army aware of what the honourable senator says If he has any comments. I will convey them to the honourable senator. 
 Mr 
Acting President, question time has now occupied  H  hours. I have no authority to put an end to question time but I suggest that honourable senators consider the time and put further questions on notice. 
The wheat quota system was introduced some 3 seasons ago. It originated in the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation. This body has made each year a recommendation to the Minister for Primary Industry. This year it made a recommendation that the quota throughout Australia be 407,000,000 bushels. It will be up to the industry itself to make recommendations to the Minister as to whether it wants that quota increased or decreased for next season. On present indications it looks as if at the end of November there will be a carryover of about 57,000,000 bushels of wheat. 
I was going to take the opportunity of making a statement later in regard to the situation as it affects the Department of Air. The statement would take about 2 minutes to read. Perhaps I could seek leave to read it now? 
The ACTING PRESIDENT- Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
I have noted the Press reports indicating that the Australian Defence Services may have sustained possible overcharges amounting to $US900,000 in respect of supplies from the United States Government. Although it is not clear in the newspaper reports, these overchargesarose from the incorrect application by the United States agencies of percentage on costs known as accessorial charges. These charges cover such things as storage, packing, handling and freight. In my Department the , amount involved was $US33,485. I am pleased to say that all but $US4,720 has been financially adjusted our way by the United States Government. There were 3 cases involved and one of these is still under departmental examination. Following the disclosure of the incorrect charges my Department is examining in detail the nature and extent of the checking performed by Australian staff in the United States. Depending on the outcome of these inquiries it may be necessary to arrange for additional documentation to be sent to Australia or to provide additional staff in North America to undertake the task of checking. 
Press reports on the Auditor-General's report also referred to avery substantial number of potential discrepancies in EDP computer records. My Department is using computer processing to obtain a reconciliation between United States, . Government invoices and our own receipt vouchers. I believe this to be a logical computer application in view of the high volume of goods delivered from the United' States Services. For example, over 100,00.0 types of equipment and spares apply to theF111C aircraft alone. The number of potential discrepancies disclosed by the . March 1972 computer produced reports was high. However investigation of such discrepancies in the meantime has revealedthat the majority of these can be attributed to teething problems associated with the conversion to the computer programming process. 
During the last few days, for example, it was discovered that because of a malfunction in the input of data to the computer relating to credit billings, the number of discrepancies disclosed in March 1972 can be reduced by about 60 per cent. It must be appreciated that the United States Armed Services are alsomonitoring the purification of their computer records and without prompting from Australia, adjustments are automatically made to previous billings on the ascertainment of refined details. Nevertheless my Department is actively pursuing the matter and is confident that the situation is infinitely less serious than early computer reports indicated. As anomalies in the computer process are detected appropriate rectification is being effected and when the system is perfected the Department will reap the labour saving benefits it planned to achieve in departing from the tedious manual process, lt must be appreciated also that 'discrepancies' as reported by the AuditorGeneral means 'under-billings' as well as excess-billings' and there is no evidence of deliberate overcharging by the United States Armed Services. 
I always endeavour to get questions off the notice paper as soon as possible, though this is not always practicable. However, I will make, inquiries about the honourable senator's questions, and I will give him some information as soon as I can. 
Yes. I will seek further information. To obtain a proper answer to the question, the honourable senator may care to place it on notice. . 
I know that there are some restrictions because I have encountered them in my own representations in the past. 
I will make inquiries and endeavour to do what I can for the honourable senator. 

I move: 
That the Senate do now adjourn. 
Before putting the motion, I take the opportunity to reply to a question asked  of  me yesterday by  Senator Keeffe.  In the question he said that on 16th August he had put 3 questions on the notice paper in regard to disposals sales in Darwin in June arranged by the Department of Supply.  Senator Keeffe  also asked me to say when he could expect a reply. I point out that the 3 questions asked by the honourable senator covered almost 2 pages of the notice paper. I have made inquiries of the Minister for Supply and I have received the following information: 
The reply is in course of preparation by the South Australian regional office of this Department, and comprises approximately 16 foolscap pages. To collate the information required involved a complete dissection of the auction catalogue for the sale in question. It is anticipated that the answer to the questions will be available by 28th August 1972. 
I do not know whether I can answer all parts of the honourable senator's question. I did seek some information on this matter which is along the lines that the Victorian investigations to date show that school shark above a certain size and age may have a mercury content above the permissible level recommended by the National Health and Medical Research Council. This matter at present is under further consideration. I understand that such fish have not yet been officially declared unfit for human consumption by the Victorian Government. The Department of Primary Industry did not make the recommendation. The action being taken by the Victorian Government no doubt arose from discussions on this subject by the Standing Committee on Fisheries on which the Department of Primary Industry is represented. Tests to date have been mainly based on shark caught off the coast of Victoria and other southern States. It is believed that school shark is particularly affected because of its longevity and predatory habits. In order to obtain more basic information on this problem the Minister for Primary Industry has allocated $23,423 from the Fishing Industry Research Trust Account to study the occurrence of mercury and other heavy metals in sharks and other commercial fish species in south eastern waters. 
I cannot give the exact number. 1 know from my own experience that people in this category are employed in the Public Service. I have always made application in the past for employment for anyone in this category whom I may have had in mind. The only information I can give to the honourable senator is that a complete and comprehensive study of this matter was made by the Public Service Board. I think that it was back in 1971. It was published in the Public Service Boards report. If the honourable senator obtains a copy he may find ail the information he is seeking. If he has difficulty in obtaining a copy of the report I shall obtain one for him. 
1 have seen some figures indicating something along the lines put forward by the honourable senator, but they were not the figures mentioned by him. 1 shall have the true figures taken out. 
1 do not know. 
The figures that I have seen are substantially different from those mentioned by the honourable senator. I shall obtain the figures from the Prime Minister's Department or from the Treasury and supply the honourable senator with whatever information I can obtain. 
 I am aware of the information which the honourable senator has just given to the Senate and 1 am also aware, as is the Government, of the wonderful work being done in Australia by certain organisations. 1 would have to see the Prime Minister about the remainder of the question. It will be for him to decide what further action he takes. 
It would be wrong to say that the views of groups of people were ignored. In his Budget speech the Treasurer made the point that during its examination of the Budget the Government had considered reductions in the rates of sales tax. In its wisdom it decided that in view of the kind of Budget that was to be introduced it would not reduce the rates of sales tax. I will convey the question to the responsible Minister. If I can get further information for the honourable senator, I will give it to him. 
The 
Leader of the Opposition in another place this morning asked the Prime Minister a question along similar lines. The Prime Minister informed the Leader of the Opposition that the terms of reference had now been decided upon and that this would be a one-man inquiry. The Prime Minister further advised the Leader of the Opposition that the man who will conduct the inquiry is at present out of Australia but will return on Sunday and that, when he has returned, his name and the terms of reference will be announced. 
 I move: 
That Government business take precedence of general business after 8 p.m. tonight and that at 8 p.m. Government business, order of the day No. 1, be postponed until after consideration of orders of the day Nos 2, 3 and 4. 
I mention in explanation that the effect of this motion will be to bring on the debate, of the Committee reports immediately after 1 sit down. At the conclusion of the debate at about 3.30 p.m. we will then go on to the debate on the Budget Papers until we rise for dinner. At 8 p.m. the Senate will debate the 3 remaining Bills that are on the notice paper. As soon as the debate on those 3 Bills is complete. I will move for the adjournment of the Senate. 
I know nothing of the information the honourable senator has conveyed to the Senate. If he wants an answer to his question, I would suggest that he put it on the notice paper. 
by leave - The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  is making a statement in the other place and I wish to make the same statement in the Senate. When I use the personal pronoun T it will be understood that it relates to the Prime Minister. The statement is as follows: 1 am pleased to announce that Professor R. F. Henderson, Director of the Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research in the University of Melbourne, has undertaken to conduct the inquiry into poverty on behalf of the Government. 
The terms of reference of the inquiry are as follows: 
To investigate - 
The extent of poverty in Australia, including changes in its level; 
The incidence of poverty in Australia upon special categories of persons or localities; 
Factors which cause poverty in Australia; 
The ways in which Commonwealth and State governments, local government bodies and other bodies and persons currently assist the alleviation of poverty in Australia; the extent and effectiveness of existing measures and services; and differences between and within States in the efforts of State government, local government bodies and other bodies and persons to alleviate aspects of poverty in Australia; 
Any desirable changes that would contribute to the reduction of poverty in Australia; and 
Any associated matters relevant to the general objects of the inquiry. 
The Government will ensure that Professor Henderson has the necessary supporting staff and that relevant Commonwealth departments provide him with assistance where practicable. 
Professor Henderson will himself determine the method of inquiry to be adopted, and the time necessary for the work to be finalised. 
Professor Henderson is well known for his work on poverty. Honourable members will be aware that he and the Institute of which he is Director were responsible for 'People in Poverty: A Melbourne Survey' which has been of great use to all those interested in the dimensions and quality of the problem of poverty in our land. The Government is, I think, fortunate to have obtained his services for this inquiry. 
It will be seen that the terms of reference for the inquiry are very wide, having been drawn so as to enable the inquiry to be as far-reaching as possible in its field, whilst concentrating on the solution of the immediate problem of reducing poverty in Australia. 
I feel confident that the decisions which I have just announced will commend themselves to both sides of the House. 
 Mr Acting President,  honourable senators will be aware that  His  Royal Highness Prince William of Gloucester, the eldest son of the Duke and Duchess of Gloucester, died yesterday when his plane crashed on takeoff at the start of an air race at Wolverhampton. This is the second time in recent months that the Senate has been asked to express ils condolence to  Her  Majesty the Queen following the death of a member of the Royal Family. 1 know I speak for all honourable senators when I express our sincere sympathy to  Her  Majesty on this occasion. The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  has sent a message to  Her  Majesty conveying the Government's condolences in her bereavement. He has also sen! a message to Their Royal Highnesses the Duke and Duchess of Gloucester. 
Many Australians will remember the Prince's father,  His  Royal Highness the Duke of Gloucester, who occupied with distinction the post of Governor-General from 1945 to 1947. We recall also that  His  Royal Highness visited us again in 1965 to represent  Her  Majesty at the jubilee of ANZAC. So.  Sir, the  association of the late Prince's family with Australia has been a close one. 
Prince William was born in 1941 and spent his early childhood in Australia while his father was Governor-General. After completing his education in the United States of America, he served as a displomat from 1965 to 1970. During this period he held appointments in Nigeria and Tokyo. In June 1970, he represented  Her  Majesty the Queen in Tonga when it celebrated its return to the comity of nations. Since his return to Britain in 1970, Prince William had followed his extensive farming interests.  Mr Acting President,  I move: 
That the following address to  Her  Majesty Queen Elizabeth II be agreed to: 
To the Queen's Most Excellent Majesty: Most Gracious Sovereign, we, the members of the Senate of the Commonwealth of Australia in Parliament assembled, have received wilh profound sorrow the news of the death of His Royal Highness, Prince William of Gloucester. On behalf of your people throughout the Commonwealth of Australia we express deep sympathy to Your Majesty, Their Royal Highnesses (he Duke and Duchess of Gloucester, and to other members of the Royal Family, in the loss which you have sustained'. 
 Mr Acting President,  I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That the particulars of proposed expenditure for the service of the year ended 30th June 1973 and the particulars of proposed provision for certain expenditure in respect of the year ending 30th June 1973 be referred forthwith to Estimates Committees A, B, C, D and E for examination and report. 
That the Committees deal with the departmental estimates as follows: 
Estimates Committee A: 
Department of Health The Parliament 
Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet 
Department of the Treasury 
Department of Defence 
Estimates Committee B: 
Attorney-General's Department 
Postmaster-General's Department 
Department of Immigration 
Department of Social Services 
Department of the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts 
Estimates Committee C: 
Department of Works 
Department of Foreign Affairs 
Department of Labour and National Service 
Department of Education and Science 
Department of External Territories 
Department of Housing 
Estimates Committee D: 
Department of Civil Aviation 
Department of Trade and Industry 
Department of National Development 
Department of Shipping and Transport 
Department of Customs and Excise 
Department of the Interior 
Tourist Activities 
Estimates Committee E: 
Department of Air 
Department of Primary Industry 
Department of the Army 
Repatriation Department 
Department ofthe Navy 
Department of Supply 
That the committees report to the Senate on or before 10 October 1972. 
I point out to the honourable senator that I am not the Minister representing the Minister for Air; I am the Minister for Air. In reply to a question which the honourable senator asked me at the commencement of this sessional period, in which he asked me to table a list of VIP flights made over a period of some 2 years, I put down a list of the nights that I had checked covering a period of some 18 months to 30th May this year. I indicated to the honourable senator and to the Senate that I hoped that in the very near future I could put down a further list of VIP flights made between 30th May and 17th August 1972. Apparently some commentators have overlooked this last portion of my answer. 
The honourable senator now asks me to go back over that period and pick out a particular flight. I cannot do this because, as I have indicated previously, there are 3 approving authorities for VIP flights. I can recall only some of those flights for which I gave approval. I shall have a look at the honourable senator's question and if there is any further information I can add I shall give it to him. 
It is my understanding that  Mr Sealey  wants to kill the seals because they are interfering with the catches of Victorian fishermen. I believe that this is nothing new on the part of Victorian fishermen; over the years they have made many representations along these lines to the Victorian Government. The Victorian Government has always refused the request, and I have received no information that the Victorian Government is likely to change its present policy. 
I do not think so, but I will check it for the honourable senator. 
I think the honourable senator is aware that about $2, 100m is owed to lending authorities by primary producers in Australia. There is a very urgent need in the primary producing field for long term loans at low interest rates. The Government has been aware of this need for some time. Honourable senators will recall that in the last Senate election campaign the Government mentioned its endeavours to set up a rural insurance corporation. The Minister for Primary Industry set up a committee within the Bureau of Agricultural Economics to study the whole requirement of and need for rural loans and also to look at the possibilities of introducing some of the policies that had been adopted overseas. The committee has made its report. One of the features of that report is the need for an extended period of borrowing by rural producers - long term loans up to 20 years - and refinancing of present loans which are for a much shorter period. It is with this thought in mind that the Government has indicated that it is prepared to set aside S20m in the Budget to overcome this problem. 
1 think the honourable senator will agree that all of us are very much saddened by the accident in Papua New Guinea and by the other accident to which he referred at the Army training centre. The accident in Papua New Guinea involves 30 people, a large number of whom are cadets, on a Caribou aircraft which is missing on a flight between Lae and Port Moresby. Nothing is known other than that information. All authorities concerned, including the Royal Australian Air Force, are conducting an extensive search in which 15 aircraft are taking part. The honourable senator knows the terrain where we believe the aircraft is missing. It is very dense, hilly country. The weather there at present is very bad and this is hampering operations. He can be sure that everything possible is being done. The Air Force ensures maximum safety in operation each time an aircraft is scheduled to take off and during the time it is in the air. As soon as I get any further information I will let the honourable senator know. 
As the honourable senator knows, Australia has these aircraft on lease. A term of the lease agreement is that Australia may, if it so desires, purchase these aircraft at any time during the period of the lease. The lease has certain other conditions. The amount paid under the lease would be taken into consideration in the final price. An offer has been made to the Australian Government. My Department has studied it. The head of my Department and Air ViceMarshal Hey, sought further information when they were in America. All the information has been supplied to the Department of Defence which, with my Department, is now considering the offer. Recently when a similuar question was asked I said that if a decision to buy the Phantoms was taken the price that we woud pay for them would still be subject to negotiation by Australia and American authorities. 
 This is a matter of policy and I cannot answer such a question during question time. 
-BROCKM AN- Surely the honourable senator does not expect Professor Henderson to go into this very wide field of investigation and to make a report within a couple of months, even an interim report. I would have thought that every one of us, both on the Government side and on the Opposition side, would be looking to Professor Henderson to give us a very full and detailed report of his findings. 
I did not hear the programme to which the honourable senator has referred, but I did hear Professor Henderson being questioned earlier on radio this morning, and he said he expects 2 years to elapse before he presents his report. I hope that every facility will be afforded to him to carry out the job that we all want him to do. 
I have seen a number of expressions in the daily newspapers in recent days by people who have either criticised or defended the Returned Services League and repatriation cases. There are 2 committees at the present time investigating this matter and I will not be drawn into any of the arguments. 
It is not a fact, as the honourable member has said, and that applies right across the board to all his questions. The honourable senator will recall that in the 1968-69 season Australia faced a huge surplus after that harvest. Because of this the wheat growing industry itself in this country came to the Government with the proposition that quotas be introduced. The Government, for its part, said that it 'will make an announcement much earlier than usual, that it is prepared to pay a first advance of $1. 10'. 
In the period 1969-70 there was a quota of 357 million bushels of which growers delivered 358 million bushels. In 1970-71 the quota was 318 million bushels and growers delivered 255 million bushels. Therefore wheat harvests were very much below the quota that year. In 1971-72 the quota was 339 million bushels and growers delivered 281 million bushels. Therefore what the honourable senator surmised in this regard is not correct. This year there is a quota of 407 million bushels and it is not expected that Australia will produce anywhere near that amount. 
It is my belief that the Chinese people are very shrewd bargainers. In the past they have always bought wheat at the time most suitable to them. This would be when there is a surplus about and when they have been able to fix the price of shipping. At present the Chinese are buying in the northern hemisphere from Canada. They are paying slightly more for a much higher protein wheat. However, they are in the position of getting a freight reduction in that area. In the past they have found it. a much cheaper proposition to buy wheat on the world market and to produce and sell their rice on the world market at a much higher price. I believe that rural production in China in recent times has not been as good as in past years. Therefore it is quite likely that China will be forced on the world market to purchase more wheat and then Australia stands a good chance of selling wheat to that country. 
I point out to the honourable senator that by the time November is reached, when we generally look at the carryover of wheat, it is expected that Australia will have a carryover of about only 46 million bushels. This is getting down to a fairly low quantity. But I say that the sale of wheat to China is not a consideration at all as far as politics are concerned. If the Chinese believe it is good business to come into the market and buy Australian wheat they will do so whether we recognise them or not. They have done just that with alumina and sugar. 
I am doing no such thing. The honourable senator asked me whether there would be an interim report. The Prime Minister in the House of Representatives and I in this place made the announcement last night at 8.30. Therefore 1 do not see why I should presume that there will be an interim report. I will not say anything further. I will seek some information, and if any is available, I will pass it to the honourable senator. 
1 believe that the Australian armed Services are the best of all similar sized armed Services in the world. This situation has been brought about only as a result of the high standard of men and women in those Services and the equipment which the Government seeks for the use of the Services. A close and detailed study is made of all equipment available throughout the world that would be suitable for purchase by the armed forces of Australia. When a piece of equipment is purchased, an end of life standard is placed on it and the Services try as far as possible to utilise it until that end of life standard is reached. Before the end of life standard of a particular piece of equipment is reached, however, a detailed study is made of how long the life of that piece of equipment may be prolonged as a result of renewal of parts and so on, and whether it would be economic to prolong it for some years. AllI can say to the honourable senator is that the Navy is keeping a close and detailed watch on its equipment. No doubt it is fully aware of the available equipment in the world at the present time but it would have to be a matter of whether the Navy could replace or purchase the aircraft carriers about which the honourable senator is talking and whether this fits into the 5-year rolling programme. 
I wish to say first to the honourable senator that this is a debate on the Budget. My understanding of the Standing Orders is that the occupant of the Chair at the time when senators rise to speak in this place should call upon the senator who first catches his eye. 
Let me finish. Over the years, it has been a custom of those who occupy the Chair to call, firstly, upon a Government member and then a non-Government member or, if honourable senators like, a nonGovernment member and then a Government member. That is a custom which has been followed over the years. Tonight the situation was that the Whips, as is usual, drew up a list of speakers and placed that list before the occupant of the Chair. Apparently some dissension arose because a senator of the Australian Democratic Labor Party and an Independent senator wished to make a contribution tonight as the proceedings of the Senate were being broadcast. I take it that the occupant of the Chair first would call a nonGovernment member and then a Government member. I do not consider that either DLP senators or Independent senators are members of the Government. 
They are non-Government members. I am not claiming anything else. Since I have been Acting Leader of the Government in the Senate, I have noticed that the Democratic tic Labor Party senators and the Independent senators have spoken very little during this session. Tonight has been an opportunity - perhaps the last opportunity that we will have - to speak in the Budget debate while that debate is being broadcast. So they claimed their right to catch the eye of the occupant of the Chair and to rise to make their contributions. I entered the Senate tonight to take over the position of Minister at the table. Apparently, something of a kerfuffle developed. The occupant of the Chair called  Senator Carrick. Senator Carrick  indicated that he would withdraw in favour of a non-Government  speaker. 
He did not say a Labor  speaker.  He said a nonGovernment  speaker.  He said that he would defer if the Acting Leader of the Government in the Senate approved that course. I took the attitude that  Senator Carrick,  a Government senator, had already been called by the Chair and I indicated that  Senator Carrick  should continue his remarks. I make no apology for that action. 
I do not know whether the book is available. If it is available I would think  the  honourable senator would make ' a trip to the Library and borrow a copy. '  
I call upon  Senator Georges  to make an explanation. 
The ACTING  PRESIDENT  - Thank you,  Senator Georges. 
The ACTING  PRESIDENT  - Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
 I thank  Senator Mulvihill  for his courtesy in informing me that he intended to speak tonight on the motion for the adjournment of the Senate. He gave me a copy  of  the Press statement to which he has referred. Unfortunately, I did not know the background of his argument with the Leader  of  the Government in the Senate,  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson, so I was not in  a  position to inform myself on his case. However, I shall certainly put the submission that he makes now before the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  in the hope that I will be able to provide him with an answer. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Senate adjourned at 10.6 p.m. till Tuesday, 12 September, at 3 p.m. 
-BROCKMAN- The Minister for Supply has provided the following answer to honourable senator's question: (1) and (2)- 
It is my understanding that the town of Maralinga has been empty for some time but it is also my understanding that the Department of Supply is investigating future requirements not only of Maralinga but of the whole Woomera range. When that study is completed the Minister for Supply will be in a position to make an announcement. I do not know the details for which the honourable senator asked. 
Fill AIRCRAFT 
I am unable to give any indication, of when an announcement is likely to be. made. The honourable senator will be aware that this matter has been the subject of a long and detailed investigation for some time now. It is a matter which involves not only the Department of the Army but, also several other departments. Recently it became necessary to revise the investigation because of the recent decision to man Army boats with naval personnel. I am afraid that this will delay the announcement' of. a decision. As I mentioned earlier, I have no information on when the announcement is likely to be made. 
Firstly, I say to the honourable senator that it is the Government's policy to maintain a small but viable and effective defence aircraft industry. But, as in the case of its counterparts in the rest of the world, there has been an up and down trend or a waxing and waning in the work load of this industry. So, the Government decided that it would conduct a feasibility investigation of rationalisation of the aircraft industry. It sought the benefit of the experience of the Defence (Industrial) Committee, which investigated the matter and made a report to the Minister for Defence and the Minister for Supply. The two Ministers then had a meeting with this Committee which I was invited to attend, together with the head of my Department, because my Department had been associated with the investigations. That Committee made certain recommendations to the Minister for Defence, who submitted a report te Cabinet. The Minister for Supply has been given approval by the Government to take certain action which was outlined in his statement yesterday. I think that aH I can do is convey to the Minister for Supply what the honourable senator 'has said. If there is any further information that can be given, I will obtain it for the honourable senator. 
The honourable senator asked me this question yesterday and I said that I would obtain some information for him. That information is as follows: The sale of medicated feed is regulated under Stock Feeds and Medicines Acts by State departments responsible for agriculture. A joint CommonwealthState Committee - the Technical 
Committee on Veterinary Drugs - is responsible for the evaluation of feed additives. The States have agreed to abide by that Committee's recommendations. Full information has not yet been received regarding the banning of certain medicated animal feeds but the report of a task force in the United States earlier this year recommended a review of the efficiency of some of these feeds. Most of the companies that the honourable senator has mentioned are well known manufacturers of feed additives; thus, their involvement could be expected. Several of the firms listed also market in Australia antibiotics for growth promotion. If restrictions were placed on the sale of any such medicated feeds in the United States, an independent investigation would be initiated in Australia if overseas evidence suggested that this course was desirable. 
by leave - Honourable senators will be aware that many items on the notice paper have been there for some time and that due to the urgency of business to be discussed prior to the rising of the Senate we will not be able to deal with them during these sittings. With the concurrence of honourable senators I propose that we now go through the notice paper and agree to dispose of certain orders of the day and notices of motion. I have discussed this matter with the leaders and Whips of all Parties and they agree to this course of action. Accordingly, I ask for leave of the Senate to follow this procedure. 
The ACTING PRESIDENT- Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
Under the heading Government Business, order of the day No. 7 relates to a ministerial statement on Australian defence and the question is that the Senate take note of the statement. I suggest that we agree to the motion. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Order of the day No. 8 refers to a ministerial statement on rural reconstruction and the question that the Senate take note of the statement. I suggest that we agree to the motion. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Order of the day No. 9 refers to a ministerial statement on Australia's foreign policy and the question is that the Senate take note of the statement. I suggest that we agree to that motion. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Order of the day No. 10 refers to a ministerial statement on financial assistance to schools and the question is that the Senate take note of the statement. I suggest that we agree to the motion. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Order of the day No. 12 refers to a ministerial statement on the Commonwealth education programme for 1971-72 and the question is that the Senate take note of the paper. I suggest that we agree to the motion. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Order of the day No. 13 relates to a ministerial statement on United Kingdom levies on imports of agricultural commodities. I move: 
That this order of the day be discharged from the notice paper. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Order of the day No. 15 relates to a ministerial statement on arbitration of common fees for general practitioners and the motion that the Senate take note of the statement. I suggest that the Senate agree to the motion. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
'Under the heading of General Business, order of the day No. 2 concerns a motion moved by  Senator Murphy  relating to Government instability. I move: 
That General Business, order of the day No. 2, be discharged from the notice paper. 
by leave - The Senate will be pleased to hear that because of the work and report of the 
Senate Select Committee on Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse its  Chairman,  the Assistant Minister to the Minister for Health and Leader of the Government in the Senate,  Senator Marriott,  has been invited and will attend the 30th International Congress on Alcoholism and Drug Dependence to be held in Amsterdam from 4th to 9th September. At the Congress, the theme of which is 'Man and  His  Mind Changers',  Senator Marriott  will be a member of a Panel which will discuss cannabis and the attitudes of governments and the medical profession towards it. In addition  Senator Marriott  will take part in discussions on a number of subjects relevant to some of the main recommendations contained in the Committee's report. Whilst overseas he will visit Geneva for talks with officials of the World Health Organisation and members of the United Nations Commission on Narcotic Drugs. He will return to Australia on Friday, 15th September. 
Sitting suspended from  12.47  to  2.15  p.m. 
 Mr President,  on behalf of Government senators and, I take it, Opposition senators, I wish to say that we are very pleased to see you back here after your brief illness and that we look forward to you adjudicating over the sittings during the remainder of this week and the coming weeks. 
I ask leave to move a motion in relation to the recent incidents at the Munich Olympic Games. 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That, unless otherwise ordered, the days and times of meeting of the Senate for the remainder of the present period of sitting be as follows: 
Tuesday: 11 a.m. until 12.45 p.m.; 2.15 p.m. until 6 p.m.; 8 p.m. until 10.30 p.m. 
Wednesday: 10.30 a.m. until 12.45 p.m.; 2.15 p.m. until 6 p.m.; 8 p.m. until 11 p.m. 
Thursday: 10 a.m. until 12.45 p.m.; 2.15 p.m. until 6 p.m.; 8 p.m. until 10.30 p.m. 
 in reply - I remind the Senate that the motion was directed to the Olympics and what happened in Munich. In the motion the Government is condemning the violence of the Israelis and the Arabs in the Middle East and is urging that there be international co-operation towards a peaceful settlement of this matter. I commend the motion to the Senate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I ask for leave to make a statement relating to the 35-hour week. 
As Acting Leader of the Government I call on  Senator Georges  to explain himself or apologise to the Senate. 

 Mr President, to define whether in using that word I was guilty of accusing the Prime Minister of improper conduct. In my view, if I were accusing the Prime Minister of improper conduct, it would mean that I was accusing him, as was stated by an honourable senator by way of interjection - it was not said by me at any time - of corruption. This is the way that I would define improper conduct. 

 Senator DRAKE-BROCKMAN (Western Australia - Minister for Air) -  Mr President.  I think the explanation given by the honourable senator does not fit the occasion. He has not apologised. In those circumstances I have no alternative. I move: 
That  Senator Georges  be suspended from the service of the Senate. 
Question put: 
That  Senator Georges  be suspended from the service of the Senate. 
J do not accept as a fact what the honourable senator says is the reaction of some Service personnel and their wives and families to delay by the. Government in this respect. The Jess Committee brought down its report not so long ago and the Service Ministers and their departments immediately studied it as it concerned each Service. The Service departments then put to the Department of Defence a submission outlining their views on the report. Subsequently the Minister for Defence met with the Service Ministers and they added their views on the report. The Minister for Defence then forwarded a submission to the Government. It is my understanding that the Government is presently studying that submission. 
On 31st August last the honourable senator made certain representations to me during the debate on the motion for the adjournment of the Senate. I have sought some information from the Prime Minister's Department which I have in front of me now. If that will suit the honourable senator I shall give it to him. The honourable senator said that State Agents-General in London had bypassed the High Commissioner's office in relation to this matter. I am informed that the Agents-General have advised the High Commissioner that they have not gone direct to the British Home Office at any time. At all times they have made representations through the High Commissioner. The High Commissioner and the previous Home Secretary,  Mr Maudling,  have had several talks during the last 2 years about Australians entering the United Kingdom, particularly when the British Government's immigration legislation was being drawn up. On 12th May 1972, on behalf of the 6 AgentsGeneral, the High Commissioner wrote to  Mr Maudling  about the treatment accorded- 
I am telling the honourable senator what happened. The High Commissioner wrote to  Mr Maudling  about the treatment accorded to various Australians by immigration officers at the port of entry. A reply was received on 21st June. The High Commissioner has deliberately waited until the new Home Secretary,  Mr Robert  Carr, has had time to settle into his new department before taking these matters up with him. Some 155,000 Australians visit the United Kingdom annually, and it is understood that there are approximately 30 million visitors to the United Kingdom annually. In these circumstances some complaints might be expected. But it is our understanding that the people who complain constitute a very small proportion of the total number of visitors. The British authorities have indicated their readiness to investigate complaints when sufficient details are available to permit this to be done. I am informed that there is no question of British airports abolishing separate control gates for the use of Commonwealth citizens. 
I am in the same boat here. This question was asked during the last session. I have the information here and I can give it to the honourable senator should you,  Mr President,  permit it. But after my last answer you passed a comment. 
The quota system was introduced after the Wheatgrowers Federation had discussed the problem with delegates from the State wheat industry organisations. The Federation then came to the Government and suggested that a quota should be fixed. The quota usually is fixed in the early part of the year. This year a quota of 407 million bushels was recommended by the industry and accepted by the Government. The Government agreed to pay $1.10 a bushel as the first advance on the quota of 407 million bushels. As the honourable senator has indicated, as a result of the late start to the season and the poor rains in a number of States it is unlikely that this quota will be reached. This is so particularly in New South Wales where it is estimated that the wheat crop will be as low as 60 million bushels. I will convey to the Minister for Primary Industry the sentiments expressed in the honourable senator's question, and if the Minister can provide me with further information I will give it to the honourable senator. 
For the information of honourable senators I present the interim report of the Australian Wool Commission for the period ending 30th June 1972. When the final report is available I shall table it in accordance with statutory requirements. 
For the information of honourable senators, 1 present the interim annual report of the Australian Honey Board for the year ended 30th June 1972. When the final report is available I shall present it in accordance with statutory requirements. 
The 
Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
This is a matter for the State authorities and my Department has no information on any such prohibition. The Department understands that the New South Wales authorities have adopted a recommendation of the National Health and Medical Research Council which permits cheeses to be held for a period of 90 days in storage at a specified temperature as an alternative to the pasturisation of the milk used for their manufacture. 
The production of curd is achieved by the addition of coagulating agents and is therefore, unaffected by pasteurisation. Some lipase producing bacteria may be destroyed in the milk by pasteurisation and to assist in flavour development lipase enzyme may need to be added Parmesan cheese is matured for a period of at last 12 months and most imported parmesan cheese is about 2 years old. The high acidity, low moisture content and high salt concentration in matured parmesan cheese act as safeguard7s against the survival and growth of bacteria. There is no evidence that parmesan cheese made from unpasteurised milk is dangerous to human health. 
Parmesan cheese is imported into Australia and some of it could be made from unpasteurised milk Foot and mouth disease exists in the principal country of origin. 
Existing quarantine restrictions prohibit the importation of cheese only if it contains meat or is packed in animal tissue. It is not considered that manufactured cheeses present any risk of transmitting foot and mouth disease because the chemical changes associated with processing and maturation could be expected to destroy any virus that might be present in the original milk. 
 Mr President,  earlier this afternoon  Senator Willesee  asked me a question. I would like to make available some further information. 
I do not think that I have any requirement to ask the Minister for the Army for that sort of information. 
I promise the honourable senator that I will give him the information he seeks as soon as possible after question time today. 
-BROCKM AN (Western Australia - Minister for Air) - For the information of honourable senators I present an interim statement on the activities of the Australian Egg Board for the year ended 30th June 1972. When the final report is available it will be presented in accordance with statutory requirements. 
-BROCKM AN (Western Australia - Minister for Air)- -Pursuant to section 22 of the Public Service Act 1922- 1972, I present the annual report of the Public Service Board for the year ended 30th June 1972. 
As 
Minister for Air I am one of 3 authorities which may approve the use of VIP aircraft. In order to be granted approval to use the aircraft a Minister, the Leader of the Opposition or the Deputy Leader of the Opposition must apply to the Minister for Air and the aplication must be within the guidelines that have been laid down. Those guidelines provide that only 2 members of the Press shall bc allowed to travel to isolated areas in response to each request. A request was made to me for a number of pressmen to go and I said that it was beyond my authority to permit that and that the applicant should reapply to the Prime Minister, who is a further approving authority. It is my understanding that the applicant has made a further application requesting the carriage of 4 pressmen. 

 - Mr President, I agree with you in a certain respect. The honourable senator has asked me about something which I believe is a policy matter. I think that the Minister for the Army rather than his representative in this place should answer the question. I will contact the Minister immediately to get an answer for the honourable senator. My reaction would be that I believe it would be a drastic step if 4,000 men immediately lost their jobs, as the honourable senator said. 
I have not had the opportunity, as the honourable senator has, to refer to some remarks made by the Prime Minister in another place. I will certainly do so at the earliest opportunity. But it is my present understanding that both the Treasurer and the Minister for Primary Industry have had talks, on 2 occasions I think, with the general managers of the banks. Talks are continuing at the present time between the officials of the 2 Departments concerned - the Department of the Treasury and the Department of Primary Industry - and the officials of the banks. I would hope that those talks would come to an early conclusion so that primary producers who at present have, term loans for periods of up to 7 years may be able to obtain some refinancing of those loans over a much greater period, say up to 20 years as, I believe, $20m was made available in the Budget for this purpose. I would hope that some decision on the matter could be arrived at quickly. 
I am aware that this matter was discussed at earlier meetings of the Australian Agricultural Council and that some reluctance was expressed on the part of the Victorian Minister at that time. But I understand that the situation in the intervening period has altered to some degree. I am not aware of the present situation in Victoria to which the honourable senator has referred. If he will place his question on notice, I will obtain some information for him. 
It is true that an Air Staff requirement, has been put out for a replacement of the Mirage. It is true also that certain manufacturers have made submissions but that no decision has been made yet. The studies of the future of air defence are, of course, in the hands of the Department of Defence. One of the parts of the Air Staff requirement is that the manufacturer should indicate in his submission how much he is prepared to manufacture or produce in offset orders in Australia. 
Earlier this afternoon  Senator Devitt  raised with me by way of question a statement which was made earlier today in another place by the Prime Minister. I said that I did not have the information on this matter. I then went on to say that continuing negotiations are proceeding between the Treasury and the Department of Primary Industry and bank officials and that I hoped that some finality on this matter would be reached very shortly. I am not in a position to add anything to what I said in reply to the honourable senator.  Senator Byrne  said in the last part of his question that his party was the only party that has been pushing for this institution, but 1 recall that over the years the Government parties have been pushing pretty solidly for a similar establishment. 
There has been a misunderstanding between  Senator Mulvihill  and myself. Earlier today he asked me a question relating to Australia's control over adjacent fishing resources and how far this extended out to sea. 1 inform the honourable senator that the Government's policy has been and continues to be to claim for Australia the maximum control over fisheries which international' law permits. The Australian 
Government's stated objective in participating in the current law of the sea negotiations is to influence a change in international law which will result in recognition, by foreign countries, of the preferential rights of Australian fishermen throughout a broad zone of coastal fisheries. 
We are trying to obtain the maximum. 
I move: 
That, unless otherwise ordered, the days and times of meeting of the Senate for the remainder of the present period of sittings be as follows: 
Tuesday: 11 a.m. until 12.45 p.m.; 2.15 p.m. until 6 p.m.; 8 p.m. until 10.30 p.m. 
Wednesday: 10.30 a.m. until 12.45 p.m.; 2.15 p.m. until 6 p.m.; 8 p.m. until 11 p.m. 
Thursday: 10 a.m. until 12.45 p.m.; 2.15 p.m. until 6 p.m.; 8 p.m. until 10.30 p.m. 
It is proposed under this motion which stands in my name to extend the present sitting hours. This proposal is introduced each session to try to deal with the business of the Senate. Last session it was brought up on 16th May and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Willesee)  spoke to the motion. At that time he said that while recognising that the motion was brought up at about that time each session he did not then regard it as necessary. At the same time the Australian Democratic Labor Party said that it would support the motion but it believed that if  Senator Willesee  wanted to go on with his suggestion then it was agreeable to that. So last sessional period, instead of the extended times being introduced on 16th May, it was not until 23rd May that I, as Acting Leader of the Government in the Senate, was able to get my proposal for extended hours of sitting accepted. We all know the result of that situation. When we introduced the extended hours we got an additional 3i hours a week. On some Fridays we sat until 4 p.m. Yet at the end of the session not only were we rushing to get legislation through and pulling down speakers on particular Bills, but also the Senate in its wisdom decided to defer 3 Bills until this sessional period. Looking back over that experience and over the experience of years gone by since I have been in the Senate, I contend that the Senate should have accepted the extension of sitting hours from 16th May as I suggested, rather than 23rd May. 
I accept that. I put the situation to the Senate and the Senate, in its wisdom, said that it thought I should wait an extra week, which we did. But this did not work out and that is the aspect to which I am directing the attention of the Senate. As all honourable senators are aware, in the other place the hours have been extended considerably in an endeavour to deal with the business before it. Up to the present time I, as Acting Leader of the Government in the Senate, have not found it necessary to extend the normal sitting hours. This has been possible with the cooperation of the leaders of the other parties and I believe that we have been able to get the business through on time. At the beginning of the sessional period we planned for the Parliament to sit until 23rd November which is a sitting period of some 12 or 13 weeks. Here we are in the fifth week of this period and we have not completed the Budget, we have not touched any of the Budget legislation and we have not even commenced the sittings of the estimates committees. When I look back to the Budget period last year 1 find that the estimates committees sat for some 10 weeks. Admittedly during that period of 10 weeks we dealt with some legislation. That has been the normal procedure over the years since the introduction of the estimates committees. I take it that that will be the normal procedure again this year - while the estimates committees are sitting we will deal with some of the Budget legislation. In the remaining 8 weeks which we may have in this present sitting period we have to deal with the estimates which, last year, took us over 1 0 weeks. 
I  am saying that at the beginning of the sessional period we were told that it was planned that the sittings would extend to 23rd November. 
The  honourable senator's guess is as good as mine. No-one has been told when the' election is likely to be held. It is not my prerogative to say So. With  all  this in view, T suggest to the Senate that it might consider extending the sitting hours of each day. The suggestion I have put before the Senate is that on Tuesdays  we  sit from 11 a.m. till 12.45 p.m., from 2.15 p.m. till 6 p.m. and from 8 p.m. till 10.30 p.m. Under the normal sittings the Senate sits on Tuesdays for 5 hours 15 minutes Under this proposal the Senate will sit on Tuesdays for 8 hours - a gain of 2. hours 45 minutes. 
I suggest that on Wednesdays the Senate should sit from 10.30 a.m. till 12.45 p.m., 2.15 p.m. till 6 p.m. and 8 p.m. till II p.m. Under the normal sitting hours the Senate sits on Wednesday for 5 hours 45 minutes. Under this proposal the Senate will sit on Wednesdays for 9 hours, which will gain us 3 hours 15 minutes. I suggest that on Thursdays we should sit from 10 am. till 12.45 p.m., 2.15 p.m.  till  6 p.m. and 8 p.m. till 10.30 p.m. Under the normal sitting times the Senate sits on Thursday for a maximum of 7 hours 45  minutes. Under this proposal the Senate will sit on Thursdays for 9 hours, giving us  a  gain of 1 hour 15 minutes. If this proposal for extended sitting times is accepted,  we  will gain 7 hours 15 minutes in a week. The extended sitting hours which the Senate accepted last session gained us 3 hours 15 minutes a week. 
I do not want the Senate to get into the position where at the end of the session we will have to sit after 10.30 p.m. or 11 p.m. because I do not believe that honourable senators want to sit late into the night. I think that is something which must be avoided. As Senate standing committees meet on Mondays and Fridays I do not think the Senate should sit on those days. I do not want to see the Senate sitting on Mondays or Fridays, as has happened in the past. Also, I do not want the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  standing in the Senate at the end of the session, as has become the practice over the entire time that I have been here, saying that the legislation is being forced through the Senate too quickly to enable the Opposition to have an opportunity to look thoroughly at it. I believe that if the Senate accepts the suggested sitting times we will be able to get through our business, deal with it thoroughly, and at the same time work within reasonable hours - no late nights. I hope that we could come to the end of the session without having all the rush or the deferment of Bills, as has happened in the past. So I suggest that the Senate should accept the proposal which I have placed before it. 
in reply  -  I thank the Senate for the consideration that it has given to the motion. I realise that, no matter what extended hours I proposed they would not be acceptable to all senators. I realise that when the Senate is not sitting senators are performing duties in respect of Senate standing committees, other Senate committees and joint parliamentary committees. 1 recognise all those problems. 
Let me make my speech. I recognise all those problems. 1 realised when 1 introduced the motion to extend the sitting hours that I would run into all these problems. At the beginning of this sessional period a paper showing possible sitting days for the 1972 Budget session was issued, lt showed that we could be sitting for 12 weeks. We are now in the fourth week of sitting. That means that on that possible programme we have only a further 8 weeks of sitting. It took the Estimates Committees 10 weeks to deal with the 1971-72 Budget. It could take them nearly as long as that to deal with this Budget. As the Acting Leader of the Government in the Senate and having been through the experience of the last sessional period of which  Senator Willesee  spoke, I believe that I have to make a move to extend the sitting hours of the Senate if it is to deal with the business in the manner in which I believe the business should be dealt with and not in a manner such as that to which  Senator Mulvihill  and other speakers referred.  Senator Mulvihill  said that in the past his Whip has asked him to curtail his contributi&gt;n to a debate because the debate had been going long enough. I do not want any senator to have to face that prospect, if it can avoid it. 
That may be so. 
1 do not want to do any of those things. That is why I am asking that the hours of sitting be extended. 
Yes, now, so we can avoid that sort of thing. As  Senator Gair  said, in the event of a decision being made that the election should be held before the 12-week sitting period has elapsed, we would avoid that sort of thing. We would not have one mad scramble to try to get legislation, even budgetary legislation, through this place. I know that senators do not want to sit after 10.30 or 11 p.m. and into the we* hours of the morning as we used to do in the old days, which many of us can remember. T do not want to do that. I am asking senators to forgo some of their committee work in the mornings so that the Senate can sit and deal with legislation. I want each senator on the Estimates Committees to have enough time to cross-examine, if they like to put it that way, the departmental officials who attend those committee meetings. I want honourable senators to feel that by the time they have finished their cross-examination they have asked all the questions that they wanted to ask. This is why I am asking that the motion be agreed to. Let me make some remarks on some of the points that have been made.  Senator Murphy,  in replying to my motion, wanted to know why it was worded as it is. May I say to honourable senators that this motion is worded in no different manner from every other similar motion that has been moved by previous Leaders of the Government in the Senate. The reason why I cannot give honourable senators a final date is that, as will be recalled, the Senate has on many occasions sat longer than the House of Representatives. 1 do not know whether in this sessional period we might not sit one day longeror one week longer. So I cannot give any definite date. 

 Senator Devitt and  Senator Mulvihill  look up the point again of why cannot I give a definite programme. J think that their  Deputy  Leader answered that point when he said that in this place we are not masters of our own destinies. We are dependent on legislation coming from the other place. So I cannot give honourable senators any fixed programme. But I can, together with the leaders of the Australian Labor Party and of the Australian Democratic Labor Party, look at legislation that may come before this House and try to work out some programme. That is why I have presented this motion. When I look at the business of the Senate I see that there are 6 reports of the Senate standing committees that I believe should receive some discussion before we rise for this sessional period. I would hope that each and every one of those standing committee reports draws some debate. I want to give honourable senators an opportunity to debate them. So I have asked for extended sitting hours for the Senate. Surely those men and women who have comprised the standing committees and who have worked so hard, compiled reports and presented them to the Senate do not want the Senate to rise and an election to be held without some discussion having taken place on those reports. So I would like to see that brought about. 
No, I do not think that, I want to say, as  Senator Gair  said, that the Prime Minister is the leader of the Government and he has the prerogative to make the decision when he things fit. 
 I would go further than that and say that I could not see Premier Tonkin, Premier Dunstan or Premier Reece telling the world 6 months, 4 months or even 2 months beforehand when they were to hold an election. I believe that the same situation would occur in each of those 3 States as is occurring here at the present time. I want to say to honourable senators that this is not done to try to make the Senate sit longer hours. I recognise that every honourable senator has a responsibility in this place and he has a very busy period ahead of him. But I want to get legislation through and I want to get it through without long hours of sitting or extra days of sitting. The only way for the Senate to do it is by supporting this motion. For that reason, I oppose the amendment moved by  Senator Murphy  and ask the Senate to support the motion. 
Question put - 
That the words proposed to be left out  (Senator Murphy's  amendment) be left out. 
I did indicate that I would put down further manifests for VIP flights from 1st July to 17th August. I indicated to  Senator Milliner  when he asked his question that 1 hoped to do so this week. I will be doing it later today. 
This is a particular case and I am not fully informed on it, although I recall it being raised some time ago in the Senate. I would have to seek information on the question and I shall do so. 
Pursuant to section 122 of the Repatriation Act 1920-1972 I present the annual report of the Repatriation Commission for the year ended 30th June 1972. 
For the information of honourable senators, I present the Defence Report 1972. 
in reply - In reply to the points raised by  Senator Mulvihill,  1 inform him the present programme which I have worked out with my Whip is a tentative one. I suggest that only 2 Estimates Committees should sit on each day. I will certainly bear in mind what the honourable senator said about Estimates Committee B sitting on Thursday. In reply to the question raised by  Senator Cavanagh,  could I say the date has been included in the motion only as an objective at which we might aim. But I assure him that, if one of the Committees finds that it needs to sit longer, I will do all in my power to give it time to conclude its deliberations. 
I must include a date so that the Committees know at what they should endeavour to aim.. That is the only reason why the date is included in the motion. In recent days I have asked for the sittings of the Senate to be extended because the Senate has found that it has needed more tune.  Senator Cavanagh  can rest assured that we will endeavour to meet the situation to which he referred, should it arise. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
 Mr President,  of course the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  can adopt this course.I am just wondering whether the position is as  Senator Georges  says it is. What I am concerned about is that this is question time andI believe that we should proceed with the business of the Senate. 
I want to make is perfectly clear that on this side usually the Leader of the Government calls yes or no when an honourable senator asks for leave to make a statement. But I recognise that the Standing Orders of the Senate provide that only one honourable senator need say no to refuse the request. 
The extent to which the Commonwealth has been involved in this matter is through a representative of the Department of Primary Industry chairing the Standing Committee of the Australian Fisheries Council which consists of Commonwealth and State representatives. No information other than that which came out of conferences has been given to Victoria to assist it in making up its mind about the decision that has been arrived at. The answer to the honourable senator's question is that no information has been given to Victoria and that the Commonwealth is involved only to the extent of chairing the Standing Committee. 
Let me say quite firmly that there are no plans to establish a permanent base on the Cocos (Keeling) Islands or to operate the Fill aircraft from there. The Cocos (Keeling) Islands are used as a staging base for maritime exercises. As I have said in the Senate before, when the upgrading of Learmonth is completed at the end of this year it will be able to take Fill aircraft. In the future such aircraft will operate staging exercises out of Learmonth, as will maritime surveillance aircraft. I would like to point out to  Senator Bishop  that when the Fill aircraft first arrive here - the first of them is due in May of next year - they will be stationed at Amberley, which will be their base. In regard to the range of these aircraft, I wish to say that the configuration of the aircraft and the external tanks mentioned by the honourable senator will more than meet the requirements of the Royal Australian Air Force. I cannot recall the last part of the honourable senator's question. 
The refueling of these aircraft is what I had in mind. There are no plans for the RAAF to buy tanker aircraft to refuel the Fill. 
I saw the report in this morning's newspaper but I cannot find out whether it is true; therefore I cannot give the honourable senator any information. I point out to him that the other day in relation to a similar question on the sale of wheat to China I said that the Chinese were very shrewd businessmen and that they would buy in the world market when they were ready to buy and when prices, freight rates and all other things were right. I also indicated to the Senate at that time that I had been informed that China was having a bad season in relation to its rice crop, that I believed China would be coming on the world markets for wheat and that I hoped Australia would receive an order for wheat. I shall seek some further information as soon as I can to see whether Australia had been approached in the first place. 
When the RAAF issued an air staff requirement for a replacement for the Canberra bomber it set out certain requirements that it wanted manufacturers to meet should they desire to submit proposals. The company that manufactures the Fill submitted proposals, and when the RAAF and the Department of Air studied those proposals they believed that the configuration of the aircraft with external tanks would more than meet any requirement of the RAAF.  Senator Wriedt  cites the American situation. The American Air Force already has a tanker fleet and, as almost every aircraft in the American inventory has inflight refuelling equipment on it, it probably would be silly not to have such equipment on the Fill. If we decide in the future that we have a tanker requirement for our future fighter replacement aircraft, in lime we probably could include the FI 1 1 in an in-flight refuelling equipment programme. But at the present time we do not need inflight refuelling to meet the RAAF requirement. 
The particular aircraft to which the honourable senator referred takes 26 passengers. There will be 7 passengers plus 4 other people from the media, a total of 11, so the result of subtracting 11 from 26 will provide the number of vacant seats. 
During the course of question time 4 questions were directed at  Senator Rae  and 2 of those questions were answered. The Leader of the Opposition asked 2 questions.  Senator Cavanagh  asked a question . which was not answered, and  Senator Durack  asked a question.  Senator Murphy  then suggested to you,  Sir, that  you should discuss this matter with  Senator Rae. 
Let me finish.  Senator Murphy  suggested that you should discuss this matter with  Senator Rae  and then make a statement,  Sir, about  it if you think it is fitting for you to do so.  Senator Rae  has now risen in his place and sought leave to make a statement. While I think that you have taken the right attitude, I believe that  Senator Rae  is trying to clarify an answer that he gave. Quite often Ministers rise in their places towards the end of question time and elaborate on or give further information in answer to a question. I have the feeling that this is what  Senator Rae  is endeavouring to do. I do not think that it conflicts with the proposal that  Senator Murphy  has put to you,  Sir. 
I suggest to  Senator Murphy  that the Committee's report has not been delayed in any way for any purpose, but there have been some times when perhaps less interference of a political party nature may have enabled the Committee to spend more time on the preparation of its report. 
I wish to say in amplification of that answer which I gave that notwithstanding the suggestions which have been made by  Senator Murphy  for what I might describe as 'instant reporting', the Committee has continued to work with a commendable cohesiveness and co-operation in the unanimous desire to preserve the integrity both of the Committee and of its report. I wish to emphasise that what 1 said earlier - 
 I move: 
That intervening business be postponed until after consideration of Government Business, Order of the Day No. 1, which relates to Ordinances and Regulations (Notification) Bill 1972. 
It is normal practice on Thursdays at this time for the Senate to move on to a discussion of reports of standing committees. Today the order of the day due to be discussed relates to a consideration of the report of the Senate Select Committee on Off-shore Petroleum Resources. After a discussion of that order of the day it would be normal to move on to order of the day Nos 2. 3 and so on until we had completed a discussion of the orders of the day. I have proposed my motion because 1 believe that Government Business, Order of the Day No. 1, dealing with the Ordinances and Regulations (Notification) Bill 1972 is of an urgent nature. T believe that it is necessary to use the procedure I have adopted to bring this matter on for debate. 
While I have been Acting Leader of the Government it has been my normal practice to make out a plan of the day in line with Government Business that is required to be dealt with and to discuss that plan with the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator 
Murphy) and the Leader of the Democratic Labor Party  (Senator Gair).  During this time 1 have received a great deal of cooperation from the 2 leaders in bringing business before the Senate. When discussing this matter this morning I said that I thought this Government Business was of an urgent nature. I hope the Leader of the Opposition will not mind my saying that he did not see the urgency of the matter, as a. result of which we could not arrive at a decision on how we should proceed with business during the day. I have used this procedure as a means of bringing this Government Business before the Senate immediately instead of after the debate on the Committee's report. 
Yesterday 1 proposed a motion for the Senate to sit for extended hours. That motion, when carried, required the Senate to meet at 10 a.m. today. However, during the course of the day, some honourable senators from both sides of the chamber asked me whether there was any real urgency for the Senate to meet at 10 a,m. instead of the usual 1 1 a.m. I discussed the matter with some of my ministerial colleagues and we decided that there was no real urgency to warrant our sitting at 10 a.m. today rather than 11 a.m. In fact the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood),  who is in charge of the Bill which it is proposed that the Senate should now deal with, said that the additional hour would give honourable senators extra time in which to study the legislation in depth. For this reason the Senate met at 11 a.m. instead of 10 a.m. as was decided yesterday. I believe that this has given all honourable senators time to study the Bill about which we were speaking last night. 
This is a vital piece of legislation which affects very many people. It is a view of the Government that a delay in passing the legislation would prejudice the rights of all people who have cases listed for hearing in the Australian Capita] Territory Court of Petty Sessions. There are several matters which cannot be determined until this legislation has been passed. The Australian Capital Territory Court of Petty Sessions is not dealing with any matters today and all matters which had been listed for today have been adjourned until tomorrow. In the Supreme Court, 2 pleas in criminal matters that were listed before  Mr Justice 
Fox have been adjourned. A claim for civil damages before  Mr Justice  Franki in the Supreme Court was adjourned until 11.30 this morning to enable settlement negotiations between the parties to take place. These matters cannot go on until this legislation is passed. I believe that there are a number of cases like that before the courts here and in the Northern Territory which should be dealt with but cannot be dealt with. I believe it is urgent for the Senate to go on with this legislation. That is why I moved this motion. 
At question time today I said that I wished to take the opportunity to table a document in the Senate. On 22nd August I tabled details of VIP flights of the Royal Australian Air Force for the period 1st March 1971 to 31st May 1972. I also informed the Senate that I would make available at the earliest opportunity information for the period 1st June 1972 to 17th August 1972. The document which I now table covers this period and embraces all details of approved applications for VIP travel. It has been reconciled against the relevant flight manifests. I present the following document: 
Use of VIP aircraft - details of approved applications 1st June 1972 to 17th August 1972. 
I move: 
That the Particulars of Proposed Expenditure for the Service of the Year Ending 30th June 1973 and the Particulars of Proposed Provision for Certain Expenditure in respect of the Year Ending 30th June 1973 be referred forthwith to Estimates Committees A, B, C, D and E for examination and report. 
That the Committees deal with the departmental estimates as follows: 
Estimates Committee A - 
Department of Health 
Parliament 
Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet 
Department of the Treasury 
Department of Defence 
Estimates Committee B - 
Attorney-General's Department 
Postmaster-General's Department 
Department of Immigration 
Department of Social Services 
Department of the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts 
Estimates Committee C - 
Department of Works 
Department of Foreign Affairs 
Department of Labour and National Service 
Department of Education and Science 
Department of External Territories 
Department of Housing 
Estimates Committee D - 
Department of Civil Aviation 
Department of Trade and Industry 
Department of National Development 
Department of Shipping and Transport 
Department of Customs and Excise 
Department of the Interior 
Tourist Activities 
Estimates Committee E - 
Department of Air 
Department of Primary Industry 
Department of the Army 
Repatriation Department 
Department of the Navy 
Department of Supply. 
That the Committees report to the Senate on or before 10th October 1972. 
This is moving away from the normal procedure, but looking back at the sittings of the Estimates Committees last year we see, as I explained to the Senate yesterday, that those sittings extended over 10 weeks. Despite the fact that we have not concluded the Budget debate, I find that there is nothing in our Standing Orders to prevent us from referring the particulars of proposed expenditure to the Estimates Committees. Although, as I say, the Budget debate has not concluded I propose that the Estimates Committees should begin their sittings next week. I suggest that next Tuesday Estimates Committee A and Estimates Committee E should sit from 2.15 p.m. through to the dinner adjournment and then from the resumption after the dinner adjournment to 10 p.m. That is really the substance of my motion. 
I have discussed this matter with the leaders of the various Parties, and we have come to the conclusion that there is nothing to prevent us from at least trying to start to deal with the Estimates. As the proceedings of the Senate are broadcast on Wednesday, I propose that the Senate should sit as a whole and discuss Government business and other business which might come before the Senate on that day. I suggest that the Estimates Committees should sit on Tuesday and again on Thursday of next week, and that is what my motion proposes. 
The honourable senator addresses the question to me, as the representative of the Prime Minister in this place, and seeks information which can only be given on a Premier to Prime Minister basis. Therefore I ask the honourable senator to put his question on notice. 
Pursuant to section 28 of the Dried Fruits Export Control Act 1924-1966, I present the forty-eighth annual report of the Australian Dried Fruits Control Board for the year ended 30th June 1972. 
I am not too sure whether consideration has already been given to this matter. I will make inquiries and let the honourable senator have as much information as I can obtain. 
 In reply to the matter which  Senator McManus  has raised on the adjournment debate, I point out that the honourable senator today asked me a question relating to the same subject matter. He has tonight given much more detailed information and since it will be reported in Hansard, I will draw  it  to the attention of the Minister for Primary Industry and will let him take from there. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The labelling of products such as the one to which the honourable senator has referred is a matter that comes under the control of State legislation. The honourable senator will recall that when the subject of synthetic meat was raised at an Australian Agricultural Council meeting some time ago the Minister for Primary Industry, who chaired the meeting, asked the State Ministers to go back and have a look at their legislation on this matter and that later he wrote to the Ministers concerned and asked them to bring their legislation up to date. I remind the honourable senator of the experience of the wool industry when synthetics were making vast inroads into the market of the natural fibre and the expenditure at the present time on wool promotion. I believe that the meat producers should do as  Colonel McArthur,  the  Chairman  of the Australian Meat Board, has called on them to do and produce a better quality meat so as to prevent synthetics making an inroad into their market. I do not believe that it would do any good to the meat industry to request, as the honourable senator has done, that certain synthetic meat should not be labbelled as such because of its protein fat content. 
There is a requirement to replace the Hercules 130A aircraft. I have stated quite clearly in the Senate on a number of occasions that for some time the Department of Defence and the Department of Air have been looking at a replacement for this aircraft, from the aspect of having a carriercumtanker type replacement. I have nothing further to add, other than to say that on the present configuration of the FI 1 1 aircraft, with its external wing tanks, there is no requirement at this time for a tanker aircraft. 
I have not seen the statement referred to, and I would not think that the Minister for Primary Industry said that the Prime Minister was uninformed. Because of the decision contained in the Budget to make $20m available for rural finance, the Treasurer and the Minister for Primary Industry have been carrying on a series of meetings not simply between themselves but with the managing directors of banks. The officials of both the Department of Primary Industry and the Treasury are still continuing discussions with the bank officials. When a decision is made - as I said the other day, I hope that a decision will be made very shortly - we will have the opportunity of knowing what is contained in it and perhaps discussing it at later time. 
I recognise what the honourable senator is saying. He will recall that last year there was a series of questions from both sides of the House - I know that one came from him - in regard to the concern of people living in this area. It was for this reason that the Minister for Primary Industry put proposals before the recent meeting of the Australian Agricultural Council for the adoption of State Ministers of Agriculture. A decision was taken at that meeting and I would hope that it would go into operation as soon as possible. Nevertheless, I will convey to the Minister for Primary Industry the concern of  Senator McManus.  If he cares to comment further, I will give the honourable senator the information. 
by leave  -  I wish to inform the Senate that the Treasurer,  Mr Snedden,  left Australia on Sunday, 17th September, to have discussions with officials of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development in Paris and to attend the meeting of the Commonwealth Finance Ministers in London and the annual meetings of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank in Washington. He is expected to return to Australia on 5th October. During his absence the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  is Acting Treasurer. 
by leave - The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  is making in the other place this statement which I am about to make on his behalf. It will be understood that when I use the first person personal pronoun it refers to the Prime Minister. 
This statement relates to urban and regional development in Australia with particular reference to the Commonwealth Government's role in this matter of great national importance. In recent years, the concentration of our population and our industries in and around our principal cities has created problems of congestion and contributed to polution. Unless these problems are tackled with vigour and imagination, our efforts to secure a better quality of life for Australians will be compromised, and the consequences will be such that our growth and progress as a nation will be impeded. 
Our population has now reached 13 million. In J 971, about 60 per cent of the Australian population lived in the 6 State capitals. Approximately 40 per cent lived in Sydney and Melbourne alone. Overall, in the 5 years to 1971, the population of the metropolitan areas increased by an amount equal to 75 per cent of the increase in Australia's population in the same period. As things stand, there is no evidence to suggest that this trend will change unless new initiatives are taken. It is against this background that the Commonwealth Government has decided that it will take immediate steps, financially and in other ways, in a co-ordinated programme with State governments directed towards fostering a better balance of population distribution and regional development in Australia. I have written to the State Premiers informing them of this and seeking their co-operation. 
Funds will be made available for the remainder of this financial year to provide for the initial operations of a new Commonwealth authority concerned with urban and regional development to which I will refer in detail later. The planning and development of our major population centres in the States is, of course, the direct responsibility of the State governments, but the totality of the associated urban and regional problems and challenges is clearly national in character. 
Commonwealth initiatives in this field must be carried out in full consultation and in partnership with the States. Our early discussions with the States will have as their first object the fullest understanding of the nature of the problems to be overcome, and establishing how best the combined resources of the Commonwealth and State governments can be marshalled to tackle them in the interests of the nation as a whole. We believe that the most effective means of achieving our objectives will be found in concentrating our efforts in a limited number of centres rather than by spreading them thinly over many projects each having only a limited impact. 
We propose, therefore, to give Commonwealth backing to 2 separate concepts, the development of regional growth centres and the promotion of sub-metropolitan centres around the existing cities. There is undoubted scope for the expansion of most Australian cities provided this is done by means of balanced development, rather than by the spread of residential or dormitory suburbs that add to traffic congestion and strain on the existing facilities in the city and inner urban areas where commerce and industry offering employment are largely concentrated. It will be our aim to Identify and foster the balanced growth of sub-metropolitan centres that offer potential for development. 
Decentralisation offers further opportunities of relieving concentration in existing cities. The report by a committee of Commonwealth and state officials has concluded that the only type of decentralisation which offers significant prospects of success is selective decentralisation. The Commonwealth endorses this view and favours the concentrated development of a small number of carefully selected centres, having regard to factors likely to be favourable to their growth. We expect that, as we grow in experience and as more resources become available to us, then more centres will be selected for accelerated growth. 
The programme for selective decentralisation under which the Commonwealth will, as an initial step, assist the States with the accelerated development of growth centres, will be separate from, and additional to, present State programmes fostering decentralisation. These State programmes embrace a number of measures designed to bring about a more balanced distribution of people and industry throughout Australia. The Commonwealth in this new initiative has similar objectives. The Commonwealth therefore looks to the States to maintain their expenditures for these purposes, and we hope that their programmes will continue to be developed in the future. 
Selective decentralisation is by no means a simple process. Ways and means will need to be devised to attract to the selected locations the employment and industries which will be basic to their establishment and their faster growth. In addition, the Commonwealth and state governments could directly assist in the growth and development of new centres since they are both large employers. The Government is anxious that the develop ment of the selected centres will bring maximum benefit to the nation as a whole. For example, it will be necessary to guard against the cost of development of the selected centres being inflated by increases in land values directly attributable to the policy initiatives of the States and the Commonwealth. 
Land acquisition policies in the selected centres will need to be consistent with that objective. The selection of particular projects or sites for putting into effect the 2 approaches I have outlined is one of the first tasks to which the Commonwealth and the States will need to address themselves in the co-operative approach we envisage. For these purposes, we have considered, in broad outline, the scope and nature of the machinery that will be required. We propose the establishment of a ministerial council consisting of the Prime Minister and Premiers as the principal body for consultation and co-ordination in the fields of urban and regional development. 
The Commonwealth's own machinery will provide for the establishment of a statutory organisation to be known as the National Urban and Regional Development Authority. Interim legislation will be introduced into Parliament this session. This Authority will be responsible to me, as Prime Minister. It will be headed by a commissioner and my Government proposes to invite  Sir John  Overall, Commissioner of the National Capital Development Commission, to accept the first appointment to this office. 
The Government also has in mind the establishment of an advisory committee, or committees, as necessary, which would include members of various organisations and groups, chosen for their expertise in relevant fields. In deciding upon the steps outlined, the Commonwealth has recognised that practical, effective action to cope with the problems of the cities, and to promote regional development, is a matter for the Commonwealth and the States working together in a truly federal spirit. To achieve the best results for the Australian people as a whole, we must together define the relationships, roles and contributions which will characterise our future co-operation in what we in the Commonwealth believe will be a major step towards further enriching the quality of life in our Australian community. 1 commend these proposals to the House. 
by leave - I wish io inform the Senate that the Minister for External Territories,  Mr Peacock,  left Australia yesterday to attend the Pacific Conference in Apia, Western Samoa. He expects to return to Australia on 24th September. During his absence the Minister for Foreign Affairs,  Mr N.  H. Bowen, will be Acting Minister for External Territories. 
The honourable senator can expect to get an answer as ' soon as T can get it from the Minister, 
by leave -  Mr Acting Deputy President,  I make this statement on behalf of the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon),  and it will be understood that when I use the first person personal pronoun it refers to the Prime Minister. I wish to inform the House that it is being announced today from Buckingham Palace that the Queen will open the Sydney Opera House on Saturday, 20th October 1973. The announcement arises from an invitation which as Prime Minister of Australia I was most happy to convey to  Her  Majesty with the full support and concurrence of the Premier of New South Wales.  Her  Majesty's visit will be a short one, limited to a brief stay in Canberra and then her visit to Sydney. It will follow the pattern of Royal visits for specific purposes - in this case the opening of the Opera House. 
The likely dates are arrival on Wednesday, 17th October, and departure on Simday, 21st October. The opening of the Sydney Opera House will be a great national and international occasion, and it is fitting that Her Majesty will be here to perform the ceremony.  I  share with the Premier of New South Wales great pleasure that Her Majesty and the Duke of Edinburgh will visit Australia for this purpose.  I  am sure they will be most warmly welcomed. 
Sitting suspended from  5.47  to  8  p.m. 
I recall the recent delegation that came from the local government authorities and the meeting with the Prime Minister, because I was associated with it at that time, being on the Government members committee dealing with local government for Canberra. T say to the honourable senator that, as indicated in the Prime Minister's statement last night, the Government proposes to establish a ministerial council consisting of the Prime Minister and the Premiers as the principal body for consultation and co-ordination in the fields of urban and regional development. This statement proposes that there be 2 concepts - the development of regional growth centres and the promotion of submetropolitan centres around the existing centres. But local government is the responsibility of the State governments. The degree to which consultation takes place is, [ believe, a matter for the Premiers themselves, all six of whom will be represented on that committee. 
I believe that I had every justification for that flight. Very rarely do I: use a VIP flight. 1 think that on only about 13 out of the last 1,000-odd flights, details of which I have tabled in the Senate, have I authorised an aircraft :for- myself. I have been a passenger on 2 other flights. I authorised a VIP flight for myself yesterday morning because I had, been in Western Australia to open the Industrial Mobilisation Conference at Pearce. I left Perth at 6 p.m. eastern standard time to come to Canberra. I am Acting Leader of the Government in the Senate and, because of commitments associated with that position as well as a Cabinet commitment, I authorised for myself a VIP flight out of Melbourne at 7.15 a.m. I was booked on Trans-Australia Airlines flight 410 which left Melbourne at 8.30 a.m. 
-Not with T.A.A. I was booked on the 8.30 a.m. flight. Because  Senator Greenwood  had simitar commitments to my own, I asked him to join me. We and two of his staff were the only passengers on that aircraft. 
In answer to a question some time ago on the use of a VIP aircraft by  Dr Forbes  I replied in this place that the cost of that flight was $1,379, worked out on a formula applying to the HS-748 aircraft, which he used, of $157 an hour. At the same time I indicated that  Mr Barnard  had used an aircraft on 2 occasions but I did not go into the details. Because of the controversy at the time I took out figures for both trips. The one referred to by the honourable senator cost $2,716.  Mr Barnard  used a Mystere aircraft which, according to the formula, costs $367 an hour. I want to be perfectly fair to both these members by saying that an applicant for an VIP aircraft has no control over the type of aircraft that he is given as that depends on the aircraft that are available and the number of passengers whom the applicant asks to carry in the aircraft. 
There has been a good deal of discussion and controversy, I think, about a national anthem and a national flag. I have seen many letters in various newspapers on these 2 matters. However, I will convey the points raised by the honourable senator to the Prime Minister and obtain some information for biro. 
i think it would be fair to say that I get many requests for the Royal Australian Air Force band to play at town festivals and similar functions. Quite often these requests are forwarded to me by members of Parliament. If not, members of Parliament write to me asking that I support a particular request that has been made for the Royal Australian Air Force band. Approval for the band to play at a certain function generally depends upon the availability of the band and the distance that it has to travel to the function. In the case of which the honourable senator has spoken the Air Officer Commanding, Support Command, received a request for the band to play at a formal dinner arranged in honour of  Sir Henry  Bolte's retirement. The request finally came to me and 1 carefully studied the request and similar requests that had been approved in the past. I approved the request, believing that it was fitting for the band to play at a dinner to honour a man who, irrespective of political opinion, has given great personal service to Victoria. I am not aware of the details about the unemployment of musicians, but I believe that I have made the right decision. 
I said to the honourable senator yesterday, in reply to his question, that submissions by State Premiers to the Prime Minister are on a Premier-Prime Minister basis. Until an announcement is made, I do not think we can get any information. Should  Mr Dunstan,  the Premier of South Australia, desire to make public the context of the telegram which he sent to the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister's reply, that is up to  Mr Dunstan. 
For the information of honourable senators I present the interim report of the Australian Meat Research Committee for the year ended 30fh June 1972. When the final report is available it will be presented in accordance with statutory requirements. 
For the information of honourable senators, I present the preliminary report of the Australian Dairy Produce Board for the year ended 30th June 1972. When the final report is available, 1 shall table it in accordance with statutory requirements. 
-I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill provides for the raising of loan moneys amounting to $6. 5m for war service land settlement in the States of South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania during the 1972-73 financial year. It is anticipated that the money will be made available in the following approximate amounts: South Australia, $4,156,000; Western Australia, $1,600,000; and Tasmania, $744,000. 
For the current financial year, the sum provided for war service land settlement purposes in South Australia has been increased by $2. 5m compared to. the levels that have ruled over the past few years. This significant increase has been made available for 2 broad purposes. Firstly, there exists on Kangaroo Island a unique combination of circumstances that has led to serious financial difficulties for many of the soldier settlers there. I use the word unique' advisedly. The problems of the 
Kangaroo Island settlers arise from a combination of physical and biological problems. Clover disease is prevalent particularly in the western part of the Island. It is believed that this disease is caused by high oestrogen content in pastures which contain a predominance of certain strains of subterranean clover such as Yarloop, Geraldton, Dwalganup and, to a lesser degree, possible also Wooginelup. In lambs, the disease is reflected in low survival rates while in wethers it can cause up to  10  per cent morality per annum. 
This difficulty in maintaining flock numbers on Kangaroo Island is compounded by seasonal feed shortages, the high cost of replacement stock, limited transport facilities and the higher than average production costs on the Island. In addition, the age level of the settlers is steadily rising. There are other islands carrying soldier settlement, like Flinders Island. Clover disease exists elsewhere in Australia. But nowhere else in or around this continent does the unique set of difficulties recur that are faced by soldier settlers on Kangaroo Island. There is unfortunately no one solution to these difficulties. What is needed is a range of measures. 
During  1971-72,  a detailed investigation of Kangaroo Islands problems was made by officers of the Department of Primary Industry in conjunction with State officers. Following these investigations and after discussions with farmers and farmer organisations, an improvement programme has been developed for Kangaroo Island and approved in principle. The programme is a flexible one capable of being modified in the light of research findings and of financial experience. It will be based on the need for scientific investigation to achieve breakthroughs to overcome the underlying problems of soil-plant-animal relationships that are presently reflected in practical farming problems in this enviroment. South Australia has already taken action to increase reseach activities financed from State resources, supplemented by money from the Commonwealth extension services grant. Now additional funds will be made available for work aimed at the selection of suitable livestock types appropriate to agronomic conditions on the Island. 
However scientific investigations and breeding take time. So the programme will also include initially provision for partial rental remission for those soldier settlers whose circumstances are most adversely affected by the physical and biological problems of Kangaroo Island farming. Other measures in the improvement programme will include the provision of credit for fodder conservation facilities and, in appropiate cases, a recasting of settlers accounts to reduce annual calls and to provide improved flexibility of repayment. 
There is a further and most important measure, namely, the provision of advances to pay out stock mortgages in cases where the settler's prospects of future success are considered reasonable. Giving the settlers access to departmental finance in this fashion will have a most beneficial effect on the settler's financial position. The rate of interest charged on advances under the war service land settlement scheme is only  31  per cent, much lower than on money borrowed from stock firms and pastoral houses. Also the annual working expenses which settlers are able to borrow from such firms are, in many cases, insufficient for the reasonable operation and maintenance of their farms. This aspect of the settlers' financial problems should be largely overcome by the measure just outlined. 
To recapitulate, the Kangaroo Island improvement programme will comprise initially scientific investigation; partial rental remission; credit for fodder conservation facilities; recasting of settlers accounts in appropriate cases; and provision to pay out stock mortgages for credit-worthy settlers. The provision to enable credit-worthy settlers to be given access to departmental finance will also apply to soldier settlers on pastoral holdings elsewhere in South Australia. This is the second broad purpose for which the extra  $2,500,000  has been provided in the Bill now before Parliament. 
Soldier settlers in Tasmania already have access to this type of relief through the financial management scheme introduced in that State some years ago. In Western Australia, the majority of settlers still rely mainly on war service land settlement finance. However, should there prove to be settlers in pastoral pursuits in Western Australia or Tasmania who are having similar difficulties brought about by obtaining carry-on finance from private sources, officers of the War Service Land Settlement Branch would consult with the authorities administering the scheme in those States about the possibility of remedial measures. 
Honourable senators will recognise that such action is in line with the general policy for debt adjustment under the rural reconstruction scheme. Soldier settlers already have access to rural reconstruction as well as having had the benefit of assistance under the emergency assistance scheme for wool growers and wool deficiency payments during the period of depressed auction prices. Soldier settlers on horticultural blocks will be able to participate in the tree pull scheme. 
Apart from the extra $2,500,000, funds are raised in this Bill for purposes that have been stated when similar Bills were introduced into Parliament in previous years. The greater proportion of the balance of this money is required to make advances to settlers for working capital, to purchase stock, to purchase and replace plant and for like purposes in the normal operations on settlers' properties. Some funds will also be made available for developmental purposes, mainly on continuing work on block drainage for improving horticultural holdings in the Upper Murray region of South Australia and on the irrigation headworks, including channels and pipelines, which supply water to settlers on holdings at Loxton, Drainage maintenance has also to be carried out in Tasmania, until such time as drainage trusts are formed. 
I stress that this is a loan Bill. The funds advanced to soldier settlers in consequence of this piece of legislation will over the years be repaid by the settlers according to the customary terms of repayment. The war service land settlement scheme as conceived by the Commonwealth and State governments is an excellent programme. There has been a tendency for economic difficulties of an industry-wide nature to be wrongly attributed to defects in the war service land settlement scheme. The Government has brought in programmes to counteract these industry-wide difficulties including improvement in the supply of credit to the vital rural sector of the Australian economy. The Government recog nises the difficulties that have arisen  foi  primary producers consequent on the generally changed fortunes of rural industries over the past several years. While soldier settlers benefit equally with other producers in governmental backing through stabilisation schemes and direct financial assistance to particular industries, some  of  their difficulties relate to the fact that they are soldier settlers. A comprehensive review of the scheme has been undertaken by the Department of Primary Industry. As a result, some further adjustments may be introduced to offset particular difficulties where such are demonstrated. The Government will, as necessary, effect improvements in the war service land settlement scheme, and has done so here, even though in general it can fairly be claimed that the scheme has stood the test of over 20 years of operation. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Wilkinson)  adjourned. 
BROCKMAN- 1 listened very carefully to  Senator Murphy  yesterday. 1 think most Australians were very shocked to hear of the bombings. Yesterday  I  felt, as did the AttorneyGeneral, that it was the responsibility of the New South Wales police to cary out investigations into this matter. My reaction to  Senator Murphy's  speech yesterday was that the New South Wales authorities should be given time to complete their investigations. In view of the announcement made by  Sir Robert  Askin and in view of the experience with the Qantas Airways Ltd case, I will make representations to the Prime Minister on the points raised by  Senator Murphy. 
1 think the first portion of the honourable senator's question should be directed to the Attorney-General. Then the honourable senator goes on and asks for the opinion of the Prime Minister. If the honourable member will put the question on notice, 1 will obtain some information. 
The Prime Minister has the right to announce when the election will be held when he thinks the time is right to make that announcement. 
I move: 
That the Senate do now adjourn. 
May 1 say in moving the adjournment of the Senate that it is expected that the Senate will deal with the 4 Repatriation Bills and the Social Services Bill on Tuesday next and that at 8 p.m. on Tuesday Estimates Committee B and Estimates Committee D will meet. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
With the concurrence of honourable senators I incorporate the second reading speech in Hansard. (The document read as follows) - 
This Bill amends the definition of 'child' in the principal Act in order to give effect  to  the extension of eligibility for war pensions to student children between the ages of 16 and 21. The amendment is consequential upon the amendment by the Repatriation Bill (No. 2) 1972 of the definition of child' in the Repatriation Act. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Willesee)  adjourned. 
by leave - The Senate has borne with me tonight as I have tried to introduce a number of Bills. As the hour is now past 10.30 p.m., under sessional orders 1 cannot now introduce those Bills. I ask for leave to introduce 4 repatriation Bills and to have the second reading speeches incorporated in Hansard. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Wood)  - There being no objection, leave is granted. 
It is true to say that a remarkable change for the better has occurred in the wool industry in the last few months. Honourable senators will recall that, because of the economic situation prevailing at the opening wool sales last year, growers received what I would say were ruinous prices for their wool. The Australian Wool Commission built up a stock pile of wool which reached a peak of some 930,000 bales. This was followed by a situation of oversupply of wool. Indications throughout the world this year show that the wool clip will probably be down by 7 per cent. I understand that in other producing countries smaller clips will be achieved- 
Down by 7 per cent. 
That is production. The improved world economic situation has brought about a change in the demand for wool fibres, so much so that the stocks of the Commission have been reduced to just under 100,000 bales. Prices are climbing steadily at each wool sale. I hope that prices will not increase too quickly to the extent that wool will be priced out of competition with other fibres. The rural debt stands at approximately $2, 100m. We must recognise that approximately $l,200m of that sum is owed by growers. I believe that woolgrowers, in the light of those facts, should receive the benefit of the increased prices. The situation would not be so rosy but for the wonderful job done by the Australian Wool Commission. 
1 cannot remember the order of what the honourable senator said. 1 spoke a little while ago of a fall of about 7 per cent in the production of wool in Australia. There also has been a fall in some other producing countries. As to the amount of wool in the pipeline, I believe that the Australian Wool Commission has taken up the slack to a certain extent, and, because of that situation, speculation has now gone out of the wool industry and the profits of the speculators are drifting back and perhaps tending to produce higher prices in the industry. I do not accept the honourable senator's remarks about the election. This is said every time this subject is raised. At the time of commencement of the operations of the Commission back in 1970, prices increased during October and November but decreased after the election. Everyone said this happened because the Government was holding an election. That is utter nonsense. Supply and demand on the world market determines the price of wool and I cannot see that an election would have any effect on wool prices. Possibly the only effect would be in the stock exchanges. If I have not provided other information that the honourable senator sought I shall pick it up later. 
-BROC K M AN (Western Australia - Minister for Air) - For the information of honourable senators, I present the interim annual report of the acti- vities  of the Australian Wool Board for the year ended 30th June 1972. When the final report is available it will be presented in accordance with statutory requirements. 
I move: 
That following the presentation of ministerial statements the sittings of the Senate be suspended until the ringing of the bells at approximately  9.30  p.m. to enable Senate Estimates  Committees A  and C to meet. 
Senate Estimates Committee A will meet in committee room L17 and Senate Estimates Committee C will meet in the Senate chamber. 1 am proposing that the Senate will resume at 9.30 p.m. for the purpose of introducing between 9.30 p.m. and 10.30 p.m. some Bills that could stand on the notice paper so that Opposition honourable senators could have a look at them over the week-end. I might not use all that time but I have provided for it in case it is needed. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
With the concurrence of honourable senators I incorporate the second reading speech in Hansard. (The document read as follows) - 
This Bill gives effect to repatriation proposals announced in the Budget Speech of the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden).  The repatriation content of the 1972-73 Budget demonstrates clearly this Government's acceptance of its responsibilities to the ex-servicemen and women of Australia, their widows and their dependants. Over 300,000 Australians will benefit under the proposals. The Bill provides for a number of improvements in repatriation benefits, but does not include all the changes mentioned in this year's Budget. Amendments to regulations will be necessary to give effect to some of the improvements, such as the increase of 50c a week in the domestic allowance payable to war widows, and the provision of nursing home care for totally and permanently incapacitated ex-servicemen, intermediate rate pensioners, war widows and World War I nurses. 
Many of the improvements must be considered in conjunction with those in the means test area, which my colleague the 
Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  has already announced in another place. Increases in the rates of means test pensions, and the considerable easing of the means test, will add substantially to the level of benefits which some war pensioners will receive, including T &amp; PI pensioners and war widows also in receipt of means test pensions. I will now outline to the Senate the specific provisions of the Bill and will relate them to overall pension payments in some cases. It should be borne in mind that all pension payments are free of income tax and, therefore, they have a greater purchasing power then equivalent amounts of earnings that are subject to tax. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
With the concurrence of honourable senators I incorporate the second reading speech in Hansard. (The document read as follows) - 
This Bill amends the definition of 'child' in the principal Act in order to give effect to the extension of eligibility for war pensions to student children between the ages of 16 and 21. The amendment is consequential upon the amendment by the Repatriation Bill (No. 2) 1972 of the definition of child' in the Repatriation Act. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Willesee)  adjourned. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
With the concurrence of honourable senators I incorporate the second reading speech in Hansard. (The document read as follows) - The Bill before the Senate is in accordance with the usual practice of the Government to keep the rates of pensions and allowances payable to seamen war pensioners under the Seamen's War Pensions and Allowances Act in line with the similar rates payable to other war pensioners under the Repatriation Act. The main purpose of the Bill is to increase, in relation to seamen, the various rates of war pensions as announced by the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  in his Budget speech and being put into effect by the current Repatriation Bill. Under the Bill the existing basic general rate pension is increased from $12 to $14 per week and the existing basic widow's pension is increased from $18.25 to $20 per week. As explained earlier under the Repatriation Bill, the different levels of general rate and war widows pensions, according to rank held during war service, are being discontinued. The corresponding differential rates in the First Schedule to the Seamen's War Pensions and Allowances Act, according to rate of pay at time of war injury, are being discontinued under this Bill. 
The 'intermediate' rate of war pension is being increased by $2.75 per week to $34, and the ordinary weekly rate of allowance for an attendant for a specially handicapped seaman pensioner is increased from $9.50 to $10.50, the special rate payable where both arms have been lost being increased from $16 to $17.50 per week. The Bill also increases the pension rates in respect of the children of deceased seamen coming under the Act. The weekly rate for each child rises to $7.35. Where the mother is dead also, the rate rises to $14.70 for each child. Under the Repatriation Bill, as previously explained, in the case of certain children receiving full-time education, amendments are being made in respect of the continuation of their pensions until the age of 21 is reached. Simi lar amendments are being made to the Seamen's War Pensions and Allowances Act under this Bill. 
The Bill does not have to provide for the increase of $3.50 to $48 per week in the rate of TPI pension, or for the various increases in the weekly amounts payable in respect of the disabilities described in the Fifth Schedule to the Repatriation Act, as the increased rates under that Act will apply automatically to seamen pensioners by virtue of section 22a of the Seamen's War Pensions and Allowances Act. The increases in pensions will, as usual, be payable on the first pension pay day after the date on which the Act receives the royal assent. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Willesee)  adjourned. 
 My understanding of the situation does not conform with that of  Senator Cavanagh.  When  I  entered the Senate this morning  J  had  a  brief on this matter. My understanding is that the lad in question did faint and he did cut his chin. But the medical orderlies were not on the scene quickly enough and the Lieutenant-Colonel used the words which he used not to the recruit who had fainted but the medical orderlies. In view of what the honourable senator has quoted, I will make a further investigation and let him know the results of that investigation. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
by leave  -  I wish to inform the Senate that the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  left Australia on Sunday, 24th September, to lead the Australian delegation to the 27th General Assembly of the United Nations in New York. He is expected to return to Australia on 3rd October 1972. During his absence, the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  is Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs. 
Pursuant to section 147 of the Defence Act 1903- 1970, I present the annual report on the Royal Military College of Australia for the period 1st February 1971 to 31st January 1972. 
Pursuant to section 25 of the Apple and Pear Organisation Act 1938-1971, I present the twenty-sixth annual report of the Australian Apple and Pear Board for the year ended 30th June 1972. 
Obviously that question needs detailed research. I ask the honourable senator to put it on notice. 
I move: 
That the sitting of the Senate be suspended until the tinging of the bells at approximately 10 p.m. 
The purpose of this motion is to enable Estimates Committees B and D to meet. Estimates Committee B will meet in room L17 and Estimates Committee D will meet in the Senate chamber. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Sitting suspended from 5.38 to 10.15 p.m. 
1 do not know how many men from the South Australian Egg Board the union seeks to involve. What concerns me is the number of times I have been questioned in this place about government action, both Federal and State, in regard to surplus eggs. For the last 12 months there have been frequent meetings between the industry and State Ministers for Agriculture and between the State Ministers and the Federal Minister for Primary Industry in an endeavour to overcome this problem. In my State of Western Australia egg production is being reduced by about 25 per cent. 
I understand that at the present time Australia depends quite heavily on the British market for the export of egg pulp. When Britain enters the European Economic Community it can be expected that we will see a drop in that demand. It is my understanding that at the present time we produce about 14,000 tons of egg pulp a year for the export market and 8,000 or 9,000 tons for the local market. At the present time we have a carry-over of something like 17,000 tons of egg pulp. This sort of action by this union does not do anything to help the cause of the egg industry. 
This is an extraordinary question, particularly as it comes from the honourable senator. He took the opportunity on Thursday night of speaking in the adjournment debate to make certain allegations about attempted suicides by some national servicemen. 

 - His allegations were refuted. At that time I told the honourable senator that my view was different from the one he had expressed but that I would take the matter  up  with the Minister for the  Army  and obtain further information. 1 understand that because of what  Senator Cavanagh  said on Thursday night the Minister is making further investigations and hopes to have information in his hands, possibly this afternoon. I should have thought that having made his remarks on Thursday night the honourable senator would have waited until the Minister had made some investigations. As to the general tenor of the honourable senator's question, I should think that if he had visited Puckapunyal or Kapooka and had seen the way that the boys are treated he would not have made these allegations. 
The honourable senator asks me whether I remember a question to which  Senator Greenwood  gave an answer last week. If I recall,  Senator Greenwood  answered about 70 questions in 2 days- 
Let me do a bit of homework on the question and I will give the honourable senator an answer. 
I remember that another honourable senator made the same request during his maiden speech some years ago. As the honourable senator has said the Prime Minister has refused this request. If the Olympic authorities believe they have a case they should put it to the Prime Minister for his consideration. I do not think I can go to the Prime Minister and say that  Senator McLaren  has made a suggestion, backed by someone else, and the Prime Minister should accept it without a detailed examination of the whole case. 
I cannot say categorically yes or no in answer to the first question. I would think not, but I will ask the Minister for the Army to do some detailed research into the records, and if any relevant information is available we will make it available to the honourable senator. 
In the normal course of business the Senate will shortly proceed to consideration of the Social Services Bill No. 4 and the 4 Repatriation Bills. Following the passage of this legislation and any other matters that the Senate may be able to deal with, at 5.45 p.m. today I will move for the suspension of the sitting of the Senate to enable Estimates Committees B and D to meet from 8 p.m. until 10 p.m. The sitting of the Senate will be resumed at approximately 10.15 p.m., and after the introduction of Bills which have been passed by the House of Representatives I will move for the ajournment of the Senate. 
 in reply - I thank the Senate for its support of these Bills.  Senator Keeffe,  in opening the debate for the Opposition, said that it supported this legislation and wanted it to be passed by the Senate as quickly as possible.  Senator Keeffe  went on to make some comments that were based on his own experiences. I am very pleased to say that I do not think that those are the general experiences of most other honourable senators. I believe that the repatriation benefits paid in this country are very good. I believe that they are equal to those paid in any other country in the world. However, from time to time pressure is brought to bear for improvements to certain benefits. The Government has given consideration to all of the representations that have been made to it over the years and has acted on those with which it agrees. I would point out that the Returned Services League and the other ex-service organisations provide strong support to ex-servicemen and women in this regard. The RSL in particular meets representatives of the Government each year and puts a submission to them on repatriation benefits. The RSL is listened to very carefully by ex-servicemen who have had long experience in dealing with repatriation matters. 
The increased payments provided for in this legislation are a culmination of the Government's efforts over the period of this Parliament. In the last 3 Budgets there have been increases in benefits paid to repatriation recipients and on 2 other occasions during the lifetime of this Parliament there have been further increases. The Government's prime concern has been with the most seriously incapacitated and the dependants of those whose death is attributed to war.  Senator Keeffe  said that increases in pension rates had not kept up with increases in the minimum wage or increases in costs. If 1 may take up some of the time of the Senate, I would like to demonstrate how the rates paid to TPI pensioners and war widows compare more than favourably with the movements in the consumer price index and the minimum wage. Since June 1950 the consumer price index has increased by  152.3  per cent. In the last  3  years it has increased by  16  per cent. Since June  1950  the minimum wage has increased by  278.5  per cent. In the last  3  years it has increased by  20.5  per cent. Since June  1950  the TPI pension has increased by  352.8  per cent. In the last  3  years it has increased by  33.3  per cent. Reference has been made to the fact that the special rate- 
Honourable senators on this side of the House could have blown up  Senator Keeffe's  argument, but it was not worth our while to chase all the hares that he put before the chamber. If we look at the Labor Party's proposals, as presented to the RSL by  Mr Barnard,  we find that it has suggested that the special rate pension should be increased to not less than the minimum wage. The increase proposed in this Bill takes that pension to  $48  a week, which will exceed the minimum wage less income tax deductions for both single and married men. I understand that the Labor Party is taking the minimum wage as  $51.80  a week whereas ;he true minimum wage is  §51.10  a week. I draw the attention of  Senator Keeffe  to the fact that a man on a wage of  $51.10  does not take that home; he takes home that amount less income tax and other deductions which bring it down well below the  $48  provided for in this Bill. 

 Senator Keeffe talked about widows. I agree with much of what he said about the hard life a widow has to face when she has lost her husband as a result of him defending his country, and particularly when sh. has to bring up a young family. Labor'  i  proposal would increase the widow's pension to  50  per cent of the minimum wage; that is  50  per cent of  $51.10.  Under this Bill the war widow's rate of  $20  a week plus the domestic allowance of  $8.50  a week is well above  50  per cent of the minimum wage. 
No, but Labor has said that the war widow's rate should be  50  per cent of the minimum wage. I am demonstrating that under this Bill it will be more than  50  per cent of the minimum wage- 
That is what the honourable senator says, but I am quoting the proposals put forward by  Mr Barnard.  1 cannot do any better than that. I take it that  Mr Barnard  had the permission of Caucus to put forward these proposals. 
No, I am not. Anyhow, let me go on and say that I include the domestic allowance because  97  per cent of war widows receive it. So, I do not think the argument  Senator Keeffe  advances is valid. He talked about the way ex-servicemen are treated. I point out to him that an ex-serviceman has to apply to a repatriation board; then he can apply to the Repatriation Commission; and finally he can go to a tribunal should he desire to do so. At the present time every one of those bodies is manned by ex-servicemen. Surely  Senator Keeffe  is not saying that those men, who are men of great experience and who belong to ex-servicemen's organisations in this country, will let the ex-servicemen down. 
That is what I believe  Senator Keeffe  was trying to imply. He asked me a number of questions. Firstly, with reference to the general rate he asked me whether those on  70  per cent- 
Yes, so I am taking  70  per cent. He asked whether those on  70  per cent and less would receive increases. The answer is yes. It was stated in the second reading speech that the great majority of general rate pensioners - that is, at least  95  per cent of the  192,000-  would receive the full benefit of the  $2  increase at the  100  per cent rate. The rest also will receive increases, but such increases will be a little less because the higher rates for higher ranks will be abolished. An example is that a flight lieutenant now receives  $12.23  a week at the  100  per cent rate and lower ranks receive $12 a week; in future all ranks will be paid $14 a week at the 100 per cent rate. 
I understand that all ranks above captain in the Navy, colonel in the Army and group captain in the Air Force do not receive an increase. 
-] am told that that is the rate in the Schedule at the present time. 
It will be abolished the next time there is an increase. I will arrange for the Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Holten)  to look at what  Senator Keeffe  and  Senator Donald  Cameron have said and, if I can provide any information other than what I have given, I will be happy to do so.  Senator Hannan  made a speech in defence of these Bills. I was very happy to hear what he said. He went back a little before my time. Apart from the comments to which I have referred, in general the Senate has supported the Bills; so I suggest that the motion for the second reading now be put. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
-BROCKMAN - On 20th April 1972  Senator Townley  asked me a question without notice concerning the damaging effect which the import of blue peas from New Zealand was having on the Tasmanian blue pea industry. I gave an undertaking to obtain further information on this industry. 
The Minister for Trade and Industry has provided me with the following information: 
Information supplied by the industry indicates that local demand for blue peas is about 2,500 tons per annum. Above average crops in 1969-70, and 1970-71, particularly 1970-71 when 4,533 tons were produced, created a situation of oversupply on the domestic market. This situation was aggravated by the loss of export markets of more than 400 tons during 1971-72. Consequently merchants had above average stocks at the beginning of 1972. Processors also had higher than normal stocks due to increased purchasing during 1971. 
It is clear from investigations carried out by the Department of Trade and Industry that New Zealand import competition in the form of prices offered by New Zealand exporters as well as actual imports landed played some part in the fall in blue pea prices on the domestic market. I have therefore asked the Department of Trade and Industry to write as soon as possible to the New Zealand Government officials informing them that it is intended to raise blue peas at the Joint Australia/New Zealand Pea and Bean Industry panel meeting on 19th October 1972 with a view to arranging a solution to the problem which is satisfactory to both countries. 
-BROCKMAN - The VIP squadron, No. 34 Squadron, in the main is a transport squadron of the Royal Australian Air Force and would be used for that purpose in time of war. At present No. 34 Squadron is responsible for transporting VIPs from point to point throughout the length and breadth of this country. As the honourable senator said in his question, from time to time the squadron trains navigators. Such training and the carriage of VIPs are the 2 main responsibilities of the Squadron. I would point out to the Senate that like all other aircrew the aircrew of No. 34 Squadron have to get up a certain number of training hours each month and this is done. I do not have details at present of the average hours reached by a pilot in No. 34 Squadron and I do not have details of the monthly flying hours of the Squadron but I shall seek that information. 
As the honourable senator mentioned, he questioned me on this subject last night during the debate on the Repatriation Bills. I endeavoured to answer his questions as well as I could with the assistance of the Repatriation Department's advisers who were alongside me. If I have not explained the situation fully I shall look at the honourable senator's question and get a detailed answer for him from the Minister. 
As the Minister representing the Prime Minister in this place I cannot give the honourable senator any assurance. However. I am quite sure that  Mr Pullen's  remarks will be studied by the Government.I shall most certainly draw to the Prime Minister's attention the question asked by the honourable senator. 
I move: 
That Orders of the Day Nos. 1 to  4  - Government Business - be postponed until after further consideration of Order of the Day No. 5. 
I move this motion for 3 reasons. Firstly, the Government has given an undertaking to debate  Senator Murphy's  urgency motion at a later hour today. Secondly, if we had got the urgency motion out of the way, the Senate would normally have gone down the business list to reach Order of the Day No. 1 which is the debate on the first reading of the Income Tax Bill 1972. During the course of that debate some senators took the opportunity to raise the matter of Jetair Australia Ltd. Some honourable senators who are yet to speak may raise the question of Jetair Australia Ltd and the papers connected with that company which have just been tabled by the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright).  The third reason for the motion is that the Aged Persons Homes Bill, which is Order of the Day No. 5, must come into operation by the 10th October. If we do not deal with it in the order I propose and the Senate goes into recess next week, honourable senators will not have sufficient time to debate it. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
by leave - The statement I am about to read was delivered in the House of Representatives yesterday by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon).  Where the first personal pronoun appears it refers to the Prime Minister. 
Last May, the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  tabled in this House a Treasury economic paper entitled 'Overseas Investment in Australia'. In doing so, he identified 3 problems associated with overseas investment. They were the high level of capital inflow and the potential problem that creates for managing the domestic economy; the suggestions of exchange rate speculation to which such inflows give rise, and the possible consequences of that; and the sheer growth of foreign ownership and control of important elements of our economy. Since May this year, the Government has been conducting a review in depth of our policy towards overseas investment. We were aided in this by the public debate which the Treasury economic paper generated. 
Today I want to announce the government's decisions to date arising out of that review. Before doing so, however, I wish to make clear the Government's view of the past and future role of overseas capital. Overseas capital has played a vital role in Australia's development. It has added considerably to the resources available for our growth. It has brought with it valuable technological know-how and access to overseas markets; it has created new industries. Australia is a larger nation, and a more prosperous one, as a result. The inflow of capital has been associated with increasing overseas ownership and control of industry in Australia. This has been one cost of the increased growth which has come from welcoming overseas capital. In the past, this has been a cost which, in our judgment, has been outweighed by the benefits. Nonetheless, our policy has been to encourage overseas capital to come insofar as practicable on a joint basis - and in close co-operation with Australian-owned enterprises. But circumstances change and so must policies. 
In the past 2 years, capital inflow has increased dramatically. In 1969-70, net apparent capital inflow was $797m. In 1970-71 it was $l,418m. Last year, it was $l,841m. A very high level of capital inflow seems in prospect again this year. Until 2 years ago, capital inflow, by and large, was broadly matching our deficit on the current account of the balance of payments. That is, the overseas capital was being used to add to the resources available in the economy. Without it we could not have sustained a large net inflow of goods and services from the rest of the world. That situation has now changed. In 1970-71 net apparent capital inflow exceeded the current account deficit by $598m. In 1971-72, the excess rose to $ 1,443m. Between end- June 1970 and endJune 1972 official reserve assets rose from $l,538m to $3,764m They now exceed $4, 100m. 
In brief, in the past 2 years, capital inflow has resulted chiefly in a build-up of international reserves rather than an addition to resources actually being used in the economy. The greater part of this recently increased inflow has been in respect of company borrowings. Exchange control approvals of gross borrowings abroad rose from $568m in 1969-70 to $ 1,222m in 1970-71 and to $l,681m in 1971-72. With the existing unimpeded access to overseas lenders, our ability to use monetary policy effectively has been called into question. The House may recall that the Treasury economic paper said that 'private capital flows have now acquired a practical potential to nullify the effects of monetary policy on internal economic conditions.' To date this has not happened. But the buildup in liquidity which is proceeding will, if allowed to go unchecked, produce some headaches for the future. 
As a separate but related matter, the Government has also been considering the growth of overseas ownership and control of Australian industry. We need to be sensible about this. We all want to see a bigger Australia. We all want the tangible benefits that access to overseas capital and skills brings us. Yet there is legitimate cause for concern. The right balance between our desire for an Australian Australia and for greater growth and prosperity must be struck. After 20 years of vigorous growth we are today a relatively wealthy nation. We have less need to depend on overseas capital for our growth today than we did some years ago. We can afford now to trade off, at the margin, some of the benefits of overseas capital for a greater Australian share in our industry and resources. We can do it, too, without frightening off overseas capital. Overseas investors are expecting us to move. In brief, the policies which have served us well in the past now need modifying. 
I turn now to the 4 specific decisions we have taken as a result of our review to date. Three relate to the problem of net capital inflow and the fourth to the problem of overseas control of our industry. I begin with the first of the 4 decisions, that is: 
Exchange Control on Short-Term Borrowings Overseas 
The largest part of net capital inflow is accounted for by borrowings overseas by Australian residents, including foreign companies resident in Australia. We have decided to act to diminish the level of short term borrowings. The Reserve Bank will, from tomorrow - today - refuse exchange control approval for all overseas borrowings which would be repayable, or carry options to repay, in 2 years or less. Loan agreements which have already received exchange control approval will not be affected. 
With a view to rendering the proposed measure effective, the present sterling area exemption, under which, inter alia, borrowings in Australian dollars from sterling area residents are not subject to exchange control approval, will be terminated forthwith. For the sake of administrative simplicity, at any rate in the early stages of the scheme, borrowings totalling less than $100,000 in any one year will be exempt. The appropriateness of this exemption limit will be reviewed from time to time. I come now to the second decision which concerns: 
 For the second time in an adjournment debate  Senator Cavanagh  has taken the opportunity to draw the attention of the Senate, and of the Minister for the Army  (Mr Katter),  to certain allegations that he has made in regard to military life at 2 Army camps. Not only has  Senator Cavanagh  done this; he has also taken the opportunity during question time to put to me, as Minister representing the Minister for the Army, a series of questions. Both the Minister for the Army andI have indicated to and assured  Senator Cavanagh  that we would make investigations into the matter.I do not know what sort of investigations  Senator Cavanagh  is expecting us to make. One can get on the telephone and ring up an officer and say: 'Did such and such happen?' He says: 'No'. If that is the sort of investigation that  Senator Cavanagh  wants, that is not the sort of investigation that I or the Minister for the Army want to give him. We want to make sure of the facts concerned in the allegations made by the honourable senator. 

 Senator Douglas McClelland tonight and  Senator Keeffe  yesterday have substantiated - perhaps supported would be a better word -  Senator Cavanagh  in his allegations. ThereforeI believe that a thorough examination should be made of them. This takes time. Furthermore, the Minister has said to  Senator Cavanagh  that he would like him to give him more information so that these allegations can be substantiated or, if necessary, is willing to interview people, personally, who can give him information in relation to these matters. 
I understand that the Minister said this even as late as today in answer to a question. 
I do not know what goes on between  Senator Cavanagh  and the Minister. I am just saying that it is my understanding of the information that has been given to the honourable senator.  Senator Cavanagh,  in his submissions today and yesterday made copious quotes from newspapers. I read the 'Australian' today.I read a little par in the 'Australian' which said that the bureaucracy of this Government had refused  Mr Whitlam  approval to put down at Sydney. Neither  Mr Whitlam  nor any of his staff had asked for a VIP aircraft to put down at Sydney.I give that as an example of something that is printed in a newspaper although it does not have one atom of truth in it.  Senator Cavanagh  spoke of a particular national serviceman going absent with leave. I remind  Senator Cavanagh  that the Navy and the Air Force do not have national servicemen but on many occasions over the years servicemen from those 2 Service organisations have gone AWL. I remember going through a quiz session in the Senate in regard to a particular airman who went AWL for 45 days.I was accused of all sorts of treatment of this serviceman. In the end. none of it had one scrap of truth in it.  Senator Cavanagh  spoke of the treatment that certain servicemen, mainly national servicemen, receive in camps. Let me recall to the Senate the matter regarding a certain recruit who entered the Laverton school, which was raised in the Senate not very long ago. The Senate went into hysterics about the treatment that had been meted out to this recruit. In the final analysis there was not one scrap of truth in it. Yet, it was printed in every newspaper, it was broadcast on the radio and covered by other forms of the news media. Every Minister handling the Services, myself included, was condemned for the treatment allegedly meted out to this recruit. Every officer connected with that training centre was condemned for the treatment meted out to Royal Australian Air Force recruits in general. 
 It builds up to the case that the honourable senator put before us.  Senator Cavanagh  then talked about health standards. He said that there is something radicallywrong with them in that people suffering from certain complaints are inducted into the Army. Let me remind the Senate that not very long ago I recall the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition in another place  (Mr Barnard)  saying that the medical standard for recruits into the Army was far too high. Yet  Senator Cavanagh  complains that it is far too low. It is my understanding that 60,000 national servicemen have been called up and have served. These recruits come from all walks of life and all have certain characteristics in their medical history. They are examined by men who have a reputation in the medical world. At the time of examination some little peculiarity may not be picked up, but I do not think that 5 cases out of 60,000 is too big a percentage. I think that men with suicidal tendencies will be found in the same percen tages in the community as a whole. All I can do is give  Senator Cavanagh  the assurance that the Minister for the Army and I have given him on previous occasions: This matter will be examined thoroughly. When the Minister for the Army is in a position to make a statement I feel sure that he will do so. I could say a lot more in regard to the matters raised from my personal experience as a Service Minister. 
Without delaying the Senate, let me turn to what  Senator Douglas  McClelland said. I accept part of his allegations. I think that when a Minister calls for an investigation into a matter no officer should make statements to the Press. Indeed, in my own portfolio of Minister for Air I would reprimand a senior officer for doing so. Both I and the Minister for the Army have promised a full investigation into the matter. In my book, no serving officer should make any public comment until an investigation has been carried out. I accept that. I do not accept the remainder of the honourable senator's remarks, but I will ask the Minister to give him some information on the matter of the gaol. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I do not see how I can keep track of all statements made by important persons throughout the world and therefore 1 think the question is impossible to answer. I said I would seek certain information; I sought it and if the honourable senator is not satisfied, he had better make representations himself. 
It is rather hard at question time to givea general answer in respect of a case which may involve some problems of which neither the honourable senator nor I is aware. If the honourable senator would care to give me the name of the person involved in the case to which he has referred, I will direct the question to the Minister and obtain a detailed answer to it. 
I saw the item in this morning's newspaper, and I saw one earlier in the week, about a collaborative programme with the French firm making the Mirage F-l aircraft. As far as I am concerned there is no truth in either of those reports. It is true that the Royal Australian Air Force has an air staff requirement for replacement of the Mirage aircraft. A number of proposals have been submitted by manufacturers for that replacement but at the present time no decision has been made. In fact, one or two manufacturers are still to submit further proposals. All I say to the honourable senator is that a decision will not be made on the Mirage replacement for some time. 
I suggest that the honourable senator direct his question to Chou En-lai rather than to me. 
I have not the detailed information. I think that this question should be referred to  Senator Wright  or put on notice. 
1 move: 
That the time for the Estimates Committees to report to the Senate be extended and that the Committees report on or before 26th October 1972. 
Honourable senators will recall that  Senator Cavanagh  raised this matter recently. 
 The Standing Orders Committee has recommended to the Senate that any decision with respect to any Estimates Committee taking in camera evidence should be made only by the Senate itself upon receiving a special report from the particular committee. I move: 
That the report be adopted. 
I point out that, if evidence were taken in camera, it may have only limited value because the evidence may not be known to the whole Senate, which has the responsibility - not the Estimates Committees - of passing appropriations. It has never been the practice for the Committee of the Whole to consider any part of the Estimates in camera. I think, therefore, that any Estimates Committee desiring to take evidence in private session should make a case to the Senate, which may then consider the particular circumstances and make a judgment. 
-BROCKMAN- Yesterday,  Senator Young  asked me a question about No. 34 Squadron. As I advised the honourable senator yesterday, No. 34 Squadron's main responsibility is related to the carriage of VIPs and the training necessary to maintain the required degree of operational efficiency. Over the past 12 months the Squadron has averaged 356 hours flying a month. Of this 244 hours was related to the VIP task and the balance of 112 hours involved conversion and continuation training and necessary maintenance testing associated with the efficient operation of the aircraft. Regarding the average hours reached by a pilot in No. 34 Squadron my inquiries indicate that each pilot averages about 50 hours a month. 
I indicate to the Senate that it is the intention that on 10th October next, following the normal periods of questions without notice and other formal business, to move for the suspension of the sitting of the Senate to enable Estimates Committees B and D to meet from 2.15 p.m. until 10 p.m. that night. 
I can give the honourable senator that assurance. All sales to China over the period since the late 1950s have been negotiated by the Australian Wheat Board. In fact, our colleague in another place, the honourable member for Moore, was one of the members of the Wheat Board who were sent to China by the Board to negotiate the initial sales. I just want to say that in this sessional period a number of questions on the matter of wheat sales to China have been directed to me as Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. 
 I do not accept that interjection. I recall one directed to me by  Senator Drury  on 30th August. I gave him a very full answer indicating that, in my view, the Chinese were very shrewd businessmen and they would come on to the market only at a time when they believed that the world wheat price and the world wheat situation were to their advantage. At the time. I indicated that they were buying in the northern hemisphere because, although they were paying a higher price for it, they were getting wheat of much higher protein content. At the same time they were receiving a freight differential. I anticipated that they would come on to the Australian market as soon as the situation suited them. I pointed out at that time that the prospects of agriculture in China had not been good in recent years. 
China has been buying a high quality wheat from Canada. She also sought further purchases from France. France, which was not able to cope with those purchases, passed them on to America, which filled the orders. Now the Chinese, because of a poor season, have sought Australianwheat. Australian f.a.q. wheat makes the best noodles of any wheat in the world.It is for that reason that I believe China has come to Australia. I should point out that the last sales were made in 1969 for delivery of the 1969-70 crop. On numerous occasions since then Wheat Board representatives have been to China trying to negotiate sales. Some months ago they returned to China and negotiated a sale, but an announcement of it was not made until the Chinese had fixed up everything in the way of shipping freights and dates of delivery. 
It is true that the sales to the Chinese referred to by the honourable senator have been made in recent weeks. It is true also, as I stated in answer to a question from  Senator Drury  on the same topic, that these sales to Communist China are not dependent on recognition of that country. At the time when I answered that question I pointed out that Australia had continued over a long period to make sales of alumina and sugar to China despite the fact that wheat sales to that country were not being made at that time. Sales are not dependent on political recognition of China, as has been borne out. 
It is anticipated that at the end of the present wheat selling season there will be a carryover of about 46 million bushels. The season ends on 30th November. The honourable senator's guess is as good as mine as to what the incoming crop will be. It has been forecast that New South Wales will have a crop of only about 60 million bushels, or less. The wheat sold to China, to which the honourable senator referred, will come from the 1972-73 pool or harvest. I do not know what the total will be and I do not know what sales have been declined.I shall seek some information and if it is relevant to the question asked by the honourable senator I shall give it to him. 
The honourable senator's question arises out of an answer I gave to a question he asked me the other day. He now wants me to go a step further. I shall certainly make inquiries and see what I can do. 
by leave - I wish to make a statement on behalf of the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  and where the first person personal pronoun appears it refers to the Prime Minister. 
I desire to inform the House that as required by the Representation Act 1905- 1964, the Chief Electoral Officer has ascertained the numbers of the people of the Commonwealth and the numbers of the people of the several States consequent upon the taking of the census on 30th June 1971. Copies of the Chief Electoral Officer's certificate specifying the said numbers have been tabled. Pursuant to sections 9 and 10 of the Representation Act, the Chief Electoral Officer has determined the number of members of the House of Representatives to be chosen for the several States. As a result of that determination the representation for Western Australia will be increased by one member as from the first general election held after that State has been redistributed into electoral divisions. Section 25 of the Commonwealth Electoral Act provides as follows: 
(1.) A re-distribution of any State into divisions shall be made in the manner hereinbefore provided whenever directed by the Governor-General by proclamation. (2.) Such proclamation may be made - 
whenever an alteration is made in the number of members of the House of Representatives to be elected for the State; and 
whenever in one-fourth of the divisions of the State the number of the electors differs from a quota ascertained in the manner provided in this part to a greater extent than one-fifth more or one-fifth less; and 
at such other times as the GovernorGeneral thinks fit. 
It will be noted that Western Australia qualifies for a redistribution under the provisions of section 25 (2.) (a). 
The Chief Electoral Officer has advised the Government that there is not now sufficient time to give effect to a redistribution of any State before the forthcoming House of Representatives election. Nevertheless, the Government believes that it has an obligation to set in motion the machinery for a redistribution of Western Australia so as to ensure that that State gains its entitlement of an extra member from the beginning of the 29th Parliament. The Government therefore proposes to recommend to the Governor-General the appointment of distribution commissioners for Western Australia. 
Although there has been some shift of population in the other States, there is no requirement at present for a redistribution in any State other than Western Australia and consideration in respect of those States will be deferred for the time being. 
I move: 
That intervening business be postponed until after consideration of Government Business, Order of the Day No.1, and that following the disposal of Government Business, Order of the Day No. 1, the sittings of the Senate will be suspended until 8 p.m. tonight to enable Estimates Committees A and E to meet. 
Estimates Committee A will meet in Senate Committee Room L17 and Estimates Committee E will meet in the Senate Chamber. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Motion  (by  Senator Murphy)  agreed to: 
That Business of the Senate, Notice of Motion No. 1, be postponed until the next day of sitting. 
in reply - The submission put forward by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  is a lot of nonsense. He knows as well as I do that at the beginning of this sessional period the programme for the Parliament provided that  we  would work through until the end of November. 
It was a 9-weeks programme, anyhow.  Senator Murphy's  argument is based on pure supposition that there may be an early election. We are working to a programme. On the previous occasion when I moved a similar motion I proposed that the Committees would report to the Senate on or before 10th October.  Senator Cavanagh  queried that time and I explained that it was purely a time that we had set down as the time when we thought the Estimates Committees would finish their consideration of the Estimates. This is the practice that has been followed in respect of reports by Estimates Committees in the past. The date which I had proposed, 10th October, is the day on which the Senate will meet after the recess of one week and it is quite obvious to everyone in the Senate that the Estimates Committees cannot report before that time. All I am doing by this motion is extending the time limit by 14 days. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-BROCKMAN- Yesterday  Senator Keeffe  asked me a question without notice on what he referred to as the discrepancy in pension payments to be paid under the Repatriation Act (No. 2) 1972 to widows of service ranks higher than those of captain in the Navy, colonel in the Army and group captain in the Air Force. He referred to the first schedule inserted in the principal Act by the amending legislation as providing for fortnightly payments which are 10c more than the uniform rate and asked if I could advise whether the discrepancy was caused by a printer's error or whether the variation to the uniform pension will continue until such time as the Act is again amended. 
I pointed out to  Senator Keeffe  that 1 had endeavoured to answer his question during the debate in the Senate on Tuesday but I would look into the matter again and obtain a detailed answer for him. The answer is as I had outlined on Tuesday night, however for  Senator Keeffe's  information, I shall set it out in a little more detail. The Principal Act, namely the Repatriation Act 1920-1972, prior to amendment by the Repatriation Act (No. 2) 1972, prescribed different levels of war widows' pensions, depending upon the ranks which their husbands held on service. These levels varied from $36.50 a fortnight for widows of ex-servicemen who had held ranks below those of lieutenantcommander, major or squadron leader up to $40.10 a fortnight for widows of exservicemen who had held ranks higher than captain in the Navy, colonel or group captain. 
As I mentioned in my second reading speech on the amending legislation, the different pension levels for rank have been abolished in respect of ex-servicemen themselves and, consistent with that policy, and with a view to eventually abolishing all distinctions of this nature, all pensions payable to war widows at rates below S40 a fortnight have been increased to that level. The previous highest pension of S40.10 remains unchanged, as I mentioned on Tuesday, and this last existing distinction in respect of war widows pensions will be abolished next time there is an increase. 
For the information of honourable senators I present the report of the Commonwealth-Stale Officials Committee on Decentralisation. I seek leave to make a brief statement in connection with the report. 
At this stage I know of no approach that has been made to the Minister for Primary Industry. However, I shall make inquiries of the Minister. Should he have any further information, I will convey it to the honourable senator. 
I would not have those details. I will ask the Minister for Supply to furnish them to the honourable senator. 
There has been discussion between State Ministers of Agriculture and the Federal Minister for Primary Industry on the tree pull scheme and a Bill is to be presented io the Parliament very shortly. Although the Bill involves certain details of the scheme it does not refer to shares in a cannery. I have only just heard of this matter and would have to make an investigation through the Minister for Primary Industry before saying more about it. I shall do that. If the honourable senator would like to put his question on notice he may do so, but I will get the information for bini. 
Because of prevailing seasonal conditions, it is very likely that many wheat farmers will not reach their quotas in the coming season. Although there has been an improvement in the wheat situation in terms of overseas sales, to my mind we should not return to a policy of unlimited production. I think it has been proved, and proved quite fully, over recent years that the wheat industry has a greater chance of survival if it continues to adopt a realistic approach to stocks and policy, that is, if we tailor our supplies to market opportunities. 1 ..e Minister for Primary Industry will be meeting the leaders of the wheat industry and the Australian Wheat Growers Federation very shortly. In addition, the Australian Agricultural Council, comprising the State Ministers for Agriculture and the Minister for Primary Industry, together with other representatives, will be meeting on 16th October and no doubt the question of wheat quotas will be discussed. It has been the usual practice for the wheat industry to make recommendations regarding quotas to the Commonwealth Government, and if the recommendations are accepted by the State governments it is the usual practice for the Commonwealth to adopt the recommendations. I feel quite sure that, following meetings with the Wheat Growers Federation and the Agricultural Council, the Minister will be in a position to make a statement, and no doubt he will make it without any delay. 
I think the honourable senator would be one of the first to admit that over the years the Australian Wheat Board has done a tremendous job, particularly in the last few years, after cessation of continued sales to Communist China. I feci sure and I think honourable senators can be assured that the Wheat Board would not have made this present commitment if it were not certain that it could meet it. People look at the present harvest and the carryover and say that we cannot meet our commitment. But wheat is always coming in from following harvests which, in some cases in the northern area, begin as early as October next year. No doubt the Wheat Board will be looking at this early delivery of wheat to meet this commitment and the commitments for the following year. 
I have not seen the paper to which the honourable senator referred. I would be glad if he would show it to me. lt is true that  Mr Kronborg  is the Country Party candidate for Riverina - 1 am very proud of that fact - and he is being supported by a very good Liberal Party candidate. I shall make certain inquiries because I have no information on this matter and I will give him a reply at a later date. 
Pursuant to section 41 of the Meat Industry Act 1964-69, I present the Thirty-seventh annual report of the Australian Meat Board for the year ended 30th June 1972, together with financial statements and the report of the Auditor-General on those statements. 
This statement is made on behalf of the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon).  The general election for the House of Representatives will be held on Saturday, 2nd December 1972. It is proposed to recommend to  His Excellency  the Governor-General that he dissolve the House of Representatives on 2nd November 1972. The date proposed for the issue of writs is 2nd November 1972 and for the close of nominations 10th November 1972. The Prime Minister confirmed that the policy speech would be made on 14th November. 

 Senator Murphy - I ask for leave to make a short statement in relation to the statement which has just been made by the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman). 
I can give an answer to the honourable senator only when the Minister for the Army supplies one to me. I shall certainly make inquiries to see what is causing the delay. 
I would not attempt to answer that question. If the honourable senator puts it on notice I will ask the Minister for the Navy to give him an answer. 
I understand that discussions are held between the States and the Commonwealth as a result of which the Commonwealth finally says: 'These are the conditions on which we will make money available'. The States have to comply with those conditions if they want the money. That is the reason why it was not set out in the schedule. This information was given in the second reading speech in relation to South Australia and Western Australia and set out in that speech are details in respect of acquisition, development and credit facilities. Again I cannot give any further information than I have already given and if the honourable senator wants greater detail I am quite prepared to get it for him and write to him. 
I understand that the establishment of the war service land settlement scheme was authorised under the Commonwealth's defence power. The long title of the Bill was arrived at after assistance was sought from the Attorney-General's Department, which believes that this is the way that it should be worded. That is all the information that I can give on that matter. If the honourable senator would like further information I shall certainly get it for him. If he wishes to approach me on the subject I shall advise him of the position by letter. 
To give the honourable senator more information I can break the figures up in this way: In South Australia $1,000 is being made available for the acquisition of property, $255,000 for development work and $3.9m for credit facilities. That has been agreed to. In Western Australia $1.6m is being made available for credit facilities. In Tasmania $1,000 is being made available for acquisition, $60,000 for development work and $683,000 for credit facilities. 
-It is true that the Government has made a decision on this matter. I had proposed to make a short statement after question time. As the question has been asked perhaps the Senate will give me leave to make the statement now. 
I do not know who gave the honourable senator the impression that prices paid for wool which is being exported at the present time were prohibitive. It is quite true that in answer to a recent question I said that I would not like to see the price for wool go so high that it would be necessary to use synthetic fibres. But I also pointed out that the industry had gone through a very drastic period in regard to the price paid for wool. The wool industry had a debt of about $120m which was owed to various kinds of lenders. I thought that the industry should reap some benefit from the price and demand for wool at the present time. Of course this will bring objections from certain textile users. They will cry poor or say that the price of wool is too high. But I believe that the producers of the fibre are entitled to some benefit when there is a demand like this for their wool. 
With the operation of the F111 in Vietnam, that country becomes the third zone throughout the world from which F111 squadrons are operating. No doubt the information gained in this operation will be of great value to all who are operating F111 aircraft. The honourable senator asked whether this will mean a delay in delivery of the Australian order. At present the Australian aircraft are going through a refurbishing programme. The last information I have is that the entry into that programme was on schedule, that it was expected that the aircraft would come out on the scheduled dates, so the first batch of 6 aircraft would be arriving in Australia at the end of May next year. 
It is true that the honourable senator asked me a question yesterday but it is also true that I said then that I would get some information for him as I had not seen the statement. I asked him whether he would show me the statement, and he did. I have sought some information from the Minister for Primary Industry and I have that information here. I asked earlier whether the Senate would give me permission to make a statement but I was not given permission. I ask now whether I may have leave to give a reply to the honourable senator. 
As honourable senators will recall, 24 F4E aircraft were leased from the United States Air Force in 1970 to enable the Royal Australian Air Force to maintain proficiency and expertise in the strike role, pending a Government decision on the acceptance of the F111C. As the first F111C aircraft to Australia is expected in mid-1973, the F4E aircraft are no longer required for the purposes for which they were leased. The United States Air Force made a proposal that Australia purchase the F4Es and associated equipment offering them at a price substantially lower than that provided by the original lease terms. The Government's defence advisers have reviewed the possible advantages, the costs, industrial implications, and other factors bearing on a decision whether or not to retain the F4E aircraft. 
In considering the additional capability that would be provided by the retention of the F4Es, a review was made of the forecast needs in the air defence and close support roles, and of the existing and continuing capabilities of the RAAF's Mirage 1110 and the Skyhawk aircraft of the Royal Australian Navy and the projected capabilities of new-generation aircraft that may come into service late in the 1970s or early 1980s. This review did not indicate a high strategic priority for acquisition of the F4Es now. In addition, the review took into account the special maintenance arrangements which would be required, the additional skilled manpower, spares, ground support equipment and other ancillary costs. The resulting overall financial effect on the 5 year defence programme would be substantially greater than the simple purchase price of the aircraft and leased items. 
In parallel with the United States Air Force's purchase offer, the McDonnell Aircraft Company, which makes the F4E aircraft, made a conditional offer which could provide the Australian aircraft industry with the opportunity of participating in some offset work. This is an indication of the effectiveness of the Government's established policy on offsets, but it is assessed that retention of the F4Es could have effects on other industrial programmes now under consideration for which the McDonnell proposals would not compensate. After considering a detailed report on all these matters and bearing in mind the effects on the development of Australia's force structure as a whole, the Government has concluded that although the terms of the United States Air Force's offer are attractive, the total cost and other consequences could not be justified against other high-priority major items now included in the projections of the 5 year defence programme. The Government has therefore decided not to accept the proposal made by the United States Air Force. 
While I am on my feet I will add a little more information to that which 1 have given to  Senator Wilkinson.  I have been informed that the States Grants (War Service Land Settlement) Act 1952-53 gave the Minister for Primary Industry the power to make grants to the States in such amounts and subject to such conditions as he determines. Conditions to be attached to grants were determined in 1953 and have broadly applied since that time. In reply to  Senator McLaren,  the question of whether land settlement schemes should be introduced for national servicemen was considered by the Government in 1965 against the background of the National Service Act. Again in 1966 it was considered against the background of national service and membership of the permanent forces. At that time an interdepartmental committee examined the situation and made certain recommendations to the Government. The Government's decision was influenced by a number of points that the committee raised in respect of the land settlement scheme. The Government, having had that examination made and having viewed the whole aspect of national service and service by permanent members of the Forces, decided that a scheme for national servicemen was not warranted. 
 Senator McLaren  has expressed his view. I have informed him that an examination was made of this question. That examination established that reestablishment measures were aimed at assisting national servicemen to settle effectively in civilian employment following discharge and ensuring that they are not disadvantaged by their absence on national service. I think the honourable senator will agree with that. The examination also established that since 1963 a study of the ratio of prices received to prices paid for all rural products showed that greater emphasis has been placed on management in farming. Few national servicemen are likely to have the necessary skills. Regular servicemen are not likely to be up to date with modern farming techniques. It is estimated also that not more than 30 or 40 servicemen a year would qualify for land settlement and this number would not justify an extensive scheme throughout the Commonwealth. Finally, the examination showed that the cost of settling a man on the land would many times outweigh the assistance given to non-rural servicemen who probably served alongside him in Vietnam. 
 I did not want to continue this argument with  Senator McLaren,  but I point out to him that in my own State of Western Australia there are no blocks available for ex-servicemen. A block could become available if the ex-serviceman occupying it decided to get out; but in deciding to get out he would seek the highest price he could get for his block - and I do not think the honourable senator would want to deny him that right. Therefore, if a lad who returned from Vietnam was interested in paying the price for that block, he would have to outbid others. I understand that in South Australia blocks that come on the market are first offered to war service land settlers living in the area. If those war service land settlers do not want the available block, then I believe that that block would probably be a pretty poor block - because the original settler has decided to get off it and no other settler in the area is prepared to buy it. The honourable senator says that it should be offered to the lad who returns from Vietnam. When one considers the drastic decline which took place in the rural industries during 1971, that young settler, with his lack of experience in the rural industries, if he got that block would be getting off to a pretty bad start. I believe that for the remainder of his farming life he would be dependent on assistance from the Commonwealth to keep him going or he would have to sink. I do not think we would want to start him off in that situation. 
The Commonwealth does not ignore young men who have completed national service and who have had previous farming experience. Those who are eligible can apply for certain assistance and can receive up to S6.000. Many former national servicemen have asked me how they should apply for assistance, and no doubt every other senator has had similar experience. While I appreciate the point that  Senator McLaren  makes, it is not as practicable as he suggests. The honourable senator can rest assured that, if there was a bigger intake of national servicemen and a corresponding demand by national servicemen with rural experience for farms or further assistance, the responsible Minister would be aware of this and no doubt would examine the situation and, if necessary, would make recommendations to the Government. But on present indications there are only 30 to 40 such ex-servicemen in the whole of Australia in any one year and this number is not likely to become greater, as the national service intake has fallen in recent years. 
Let me say to  Senator O'Byrne  that I believe that the war service land settlement scheme as a whole has been a very well conducted and a well thought out scheme. It has been of great value to many families in Australia. I recognise that problems have occurred in some areas. But I recall that, since I became a member of the Senate, Ministers for Primary Industry together with their departmental officers have inspected these holdings and studied these problems on a number of occasions. I know from my own experience in Western Australia that Commonwealth departmental officers together with Commonwealth Ministers for Primary Industry over a period have met with their State counterparts and have visited the project areas. They have walked over the properties and have gone out of their way to assist these people in whatever way they can assist them. Because of depressed prices for primary products last year, people on Kangaroo Island and in other areas of Australia who are involved in the war service land settlement scheme are finding it difficult to meet their commitments. So the Government has tried to help them. 
In reply to the second reading debate I referred to the scientific investigations which had been carried out and to the assistance that has been given to farmers. Some 600 breeding ewes were used as a sort of a trial to speed up the scientific investigations.  Mr Chairman,  you must have smiled when  Senator O'Byrne  was talking about farmers who had bungled because of clover disease. 
The war service land settlerent people? 
Clover disease has been prevalent in Western Australia for lengthy periods and respected farmers - men of great experience - have had lambings as low as 25 per cent because of the clover problem. That is why I referred to the  Chairman.  He lives in a very dense clover area and he has been confronted with many problems over the years.  His  background and scientific knowledge probably stand him in much better stead than is the case with some other farmers. But there has been no bungling in regard to the war service land settlement scheme. This is a problem which all breeders have struck when they have gone into clover areas in order to endeavour to breed sheep. There is a density of clover on Kangaroo Island, and the settlers there have run into problems, as have other farmers. The Department is trying to assist these men to overcome the problems. Because of the falling value of primary products, the Government has allowed a partial remission of rents to the settlers. It also has helped them by providing fodder conservation facilities and an interest rate of 3¾ per cent on money which they have borrowed. Surely that must be a great advantage over another fanner who is paying 6½ per cent interest on money which he has borrowed in order to build haysheds, grain silos and so on. So I do not believe that the bungling to which  Senator O'Byrne  referred is factual. 

 - Senator O'Byrne andI differ in our approach, and I accept that, but I will not accept the fact that the war service land settlement people have bungled because I know from my own experience the assistance that has been given to the settlers. I will admit that there have been isolated cases. Sometimes the settler himself has not had the background or farming experienceas he has just not been capable of conducting that type of a business. I think I have covered the points raised by honourable senators. 
-I find it difficult. How would a block become vacant in the first place? It would become vacant because someone who has a debt over his head leaves it. Surely if a man has been slaving away for 20 years trying to make a livingon a farm eventually has to leave it, he would want to walk out of that situation with as much money as he could get for his 20 years of labour. 

 - Senator McLaren is disputing it by saying that the block, first of all, should be offered to a returned national serviceman. 
Now we are getting down to it. He says: 'In this case'. He is referring to one particular block. 
-I do not know of any other blocks in the area to which he is referring. The honourable senator is referring to one particular block in a particular area in South Australia. This is the whole argument. I say to the honourable senator: J will give him no assurance except to say that the door of the Minister for Primary Industry is always open for the honourable senator to go and see him and discuss this matter personally with him. I only represent the Minister in this chamber, and I can do no more than that. If the honourable senator wants me to make an appointment for him and take him along to the Minister, I will even do that. 
We will read in Hansard what the honourable senator has said. The departmental officers will study it, the matter will be drawn to the attention of the Minister and the Minister will be briefed on the background of this matter and on everything that the honourable senator has said. I think the honourable senator should go along and have a talk with the Minister about this particular block and the particular person who wants to have an interest in this block. Surely the honourable senator and the Minister can come to some agreement and thus avoid our discussing this question backwards and forwards across the chamber. I will do all 1 can to assist the honourable senator, but I cannot give him any assurance that I will do this and that because these are policy matters which must be considered by the Minister for Primary Industry himself. 
in rep!- I thank the Senate for the passage of the Loan (War Service Land Settlement) Bill. There is not very much I can say other than has already been said by the 2 honourable senators who have spoken. I shall give the Senate a little information about matters to which 1 know both honourable senators have alluded. Perhaps this will be a little more detailed information as to what will happen at Kangaroo Island. In regard to the scientific investigations, we find that for many years South Australia has carried out research into the problems connected wilh high oestrogen content of subterranean clovers. This has been concentrated on the haemoglobin typing of sheep to develop a resistant strain. To date the results are most promising. But in order to provide useful information to the war service land settlement settlers on stock management practices in the shortest possible time it is desirable that extensive field testing be undertaken. It is proposed that this work will involve the co-operation of the settlers using 600 breeding ewes on each farm grazing predominantly on Yarloop or other high oestrogen content clovers over a period of up to 5 years. Initial results are expected in about 3 years. The estimated cost of this investigation is SI 6,000 during the current financial year, SI 00.000 over the first 3 years with an additional $75,000 if results substantiate the desirability of carrying on for a further 2 years. 

 Senator Laucke referred to the South Australian mainland. I might say that all settlers on the mainland in South Australia will be eligible to apply for measures which relate to Kangaroo Island in respect of taking over stock mortgages, recasting of accounts and fodder conservation facilities.  Senator Laucke  went on to refer to the Upper Murray valuations and  Senator Wilkinson  interjected. I think I will be given permission to refer to this point. Under the war service land settlement scheme some 300 horticultural and viticultural irrigation farms were established. The settlers pay rent for the land but they are required to purchase, at valuation, the plantings and improvements on the farm. They have been given the privilege of appealing against the valuation of their farms up to 1 0 years after they are notified of it. Quite a number of appeals have been lodged. Settlers have been interviewed and farms have been re-inspected where necessary, and advice of the results of the appeals have been sent out. Only a few of the valuations were adjusted downward. Generally it was found that the grounds on which the appeals were based had been taken into account by the officers when the original valuation was made. I just give  Senator Laucke  that piece of information. If he wants further information I am quite sure that if he lets me know I can get the departmental officers to give it to him at some later date. 
Yes, the honourable senator is quite right. I referred to his interjection to  Senator Laucke.  But seeing that  Senator Laucke  raised this matter and as we have not spent a great deal of time on this Bill I thought I would give the honourable senator that information. I will now deal with what 1 think  Senator Wilkinson  called an amendment. 
Very weil. It is an addition to the motion that the Bill be now read a second time. This is not new. Last year  Senator Drury  moved a similar addition. I spoke to it at length pointing out that 9,173 farms have been provided under the war service land settlement scheme and that of those. 6,565 farms are located in New South Wales, Victoria and Queensland. I know that the honourable senator is well aware that those are principal States which provide from their own resources the necessary capital funds for the scheme. The Commonwealth shares with the States agreed losses which occur. Those States are on their own. Of course, the question arises of the authority for a Commonwealth committee to inquire into the running of a war service land settlement scheme in States which are principal States. I pointed this out last year and said that I believed it rather difficult for any committee to do this. The guidelines for levels of rentals and the option prices of properties can be laid down properly only in full recognition of the economic circumstances of the times. It is considered that an inquiry by a select committee would not serve a worthwhile purpose. If the honourable senator thinks about this, he will realise that an inquiry really could be conducted only into the situation prevailing in Western Australia. Tasmania and South Australia. I do not think it would be adequate or even fair to do that when 6,565 of the 9,173 farms are in the other States. 
I did say that it would be impossible. Two-thirds of the farms that the honourable senator wants to investigate and which should be investigated if an inquiry is to be conducted, are in principal States that have nothing to do with the Commonwealth in this regard. 
I think that the honourable senator would find it a little difficult to obtain the authority to investigate the matter in those States. For the reasons I have stated, I oppose the proposal that  Senator Wilkinson  has moved on behalf of the Australian Labor Party. 
This is the same sort of thing as I was talking about in answer to  Senator Sim's  question earlier, but it goes even further in this instance. The Australian Wool Board has a wool promotion programme under which it spends a great deal of money on promotion campaigns in stores throughout Australia. I deplore the practice of some stores saying that, because wool prices rose a few days earlier, the price of a woollen product that was probably manufactured from wool that was purchased in 1971 when wool prices were at their lowest in history has gone up by $4. 
I would not know at this time. The honourable senator has asked me to do a great deal of investigation in the Department. I am quite willing to see whether it can be done. If it can be done, I will furnish the honourable senator with as much information as I can obtain. 

 - Senator Devitt has asked me to give the name of the organisation. I do not know it.  Senator Young  referred to a particular shop in Adelaide.  Senator Devitt  will have to ask  Senator Young  for the name. 
I just say no. 
I will endeavour to do so. 
 I wish to indicate to the Senate that it is the intention on Tuesday, 17th October, following the normal questions without notice and other formal business, that a motion shall be moved for the suspension of the sittings of the Senate to enable Estimates Committees B and E to meet from 2.15 p.m. until the ringing of the bells. If at 10 p.m. that night the Committees have not concluded their deliberations, their proceedings will be interrupted and the sittings of the Senate will be resumed. 
Question put: 
That the Senate do now adjourn. 
I do not recall seeing the price of woollen goods reduced for some years now. Even when the price of wool has been at its lowest level, because the cost of preparing the material - be it a suit, frock or something like that - and because wages and other costs have gone up, the cost of the completed garment had to be increased. To me it seems rather strange at this time to see statements about increased prices when one realises that the garments which are now on display  m  shops for sale - such as suits and frocks - were apparently manufactured from wool which was purchased some time last year. Honourable senators will recall that between July and December 1971 wool growers received for their wool some of the lowest prices in the history of the industry,  in  fact, the Government had to introduce a scheme to give assistance to the wool industry and particularly to growers who received prices Jess than the average Australian price of 35c per lb. ft seems extraordinary that manufacturers or people selling woollen goods in shops now can claim that the price of wool has forced them to raise the price of their goods when those goods were manufactured from wool which attracted the lowest price in the history of the raw product. 
I understand that it did, but I want to be perfectly sure; so I suggest to the honourable senator that he place his question on the notice paper. 
I move: 
That  the Bill be now  read a  second time.  Mr President,  as this Bill was presented and read for the first time in the other place on 21st September, I seek leave to have my second reading speech on it incorporated in Hansard. 
I move: 
That the Bill bc now read a second time. 

 Mr President, as this Bill was presented and read for the first time in the House of Representatives on 31st August, I seek leave to have my second reading speech on it incorporated in Hansard. 
 Senator Keeffe  read to the Senate a letter compiled by  Mr Russell. 
That is what I was about to say. From what I could see from my seat, the letter covered about 4 pages and he read paragraphs which suited his particular purpose. Apparently the letter was written yesterday, and from what I can gather  Mr Rus  sell said that he enclosed 100 newspaper cuttings. If  Senator Keeffe  is prepared to let me look at the documents he has, I will make certain inquiries after I have read them. 
The question raised by the honourable senator is very important. This matter was raised in earlier times by the  chairman  of the Australian Meat Board who expressed himself very strongly in regard to the future of synthetic meat and the dire effect that it could have on the meat industry in Australia if its use developed to the same proportions as synthetics have developed in relation to the wool industry. Concern has been expressed on this subject by the Australian Agricultural Council also. The Minister for Primary Industry has raised this matter at meetings of the Agricultural Council on a number of occasions and has asked all States to co-operate with him and to review their legislation. He has written to State Ministers concerned with this matter and it is my understanding that he has been promised full co-operation from them. In view of what the honourable senator has asked I most certainly will direct the question to the Minister and, if I am able to obtain further information, I shall do so. 
by leave - 1 wish to indicate that I make this statement on behalf of the Minister for the Army  (Mr Katter). 
The Minister for the Army has studied the 41st Report of the Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances and has given consideration to the circumstances in which the need for retrospectivity arose in relation to the introduction of the special allowance called 'Command Money' to be paid to certain military personnel under regulation 3 of Statutory Rules 1972, Number 127. In initiating the statutory rule the Department of the Army was aware of the Standing Committees 25th Report which dealt with retrospectivity and its quite specific reference to retrospectivity extending beyond 2 years. However, as the personnel involved had a clear entitlement and as there were quite unusual administrative problems in this case it was considered the retrospective application of regulation 3 could be regarded as coming within the terms of the Standing Committee's Report. 
The Minister for the Army has studied the 41st Report and now agrees that the administrative problems involved do not constitute the type of exceptional circumstances envisaged by the Standing Committee and as recently expounded by that Committee. 
The machinery introduced in the Department of the Army consequent upon the 25th Report, which was designed to keep matters involving potential retrospec tivity under surveillance, has not been entirely successful. Accordingly further efforts will be made to keep it to the minimum and certainly within the bounds set in the principles enunciated by the Standing Committee. In particular, the Minister for the Army has given an assurance that no proposal for amendment of regulations involving in excess of 2 years retrospectivity will be sponsored in future by the Army unless there are considered to be exceptional circumstances within the meaning of the Standing Committee's 25th Report. 
Speaking as the Minister representing the Minister for the Navy  (Dr Mackay)  and as Minister for Air I give a similar assurance as it applies to the other Service departments. 
It is a fact that the Australian Agricultural Council met last Monday and discussed a number of matters affecting the rural industries, among which was the control of egg production in Australia. It was decided that egg production should  be  controlled by the licensing of hen quotas. It fixed an Australian quota of 12 million hens and divided this quota among the States proportionately. I could give the honourable senator the proportions, but a statement has been made by the Minister for Primary Industry on this matter and I shall give him a copy of it afterwards. However, the decision taken by the Agricultural Council is in line with the recommendations made by the egg industry through the egg marketing authorities of Australia, as is the decision made by the Council that the quotas be reviewed annually. Some States have already implemented legislation but other States which have no authority to enforce quotas have given a guarantee that they will treat this as a matter of urgency and will get the legislation on their statute books. 
-BROCKM AN - The honourable senator has used a number of terms which, I think, require some interpretation. What does he mean, for instance, by 'high usage'? i wish to look at the question and I will reply to it at a later date. 
As the honourable senator said, he raised this matter some time ago. I have been carrying in my files an answer toit. The only information I can give him is along these lines: The Australian Committee for the Coding of Rural Accounts was formed in 1966. It was formed to develop an informed system of coding farm accounts and records, to produce a glossary of all agricultural terms used in farm management accounting and to obtain support for its general use throughout Australia by all organisations using farm records for any purpose. A 7-man committee was allocated $29,800 from the Commonwealth Agricultural Extension Services Grant between 1968-69 and 1970-71. This money was approved by the Standing Committee on Agriculture and by the Australian Institute of Agricultural Science. The tasks of the Committee have been passed on to a Canberra workshop which has accepted the coding arrangement and which has recommended a reporting system which is suitable for a wide range of organisations concerned with farm records. The work of the secretariat is being financed by the Commonwealth Agricultural Extension Services Grant over a 3-year period from 1970 to 1973, to a total of$1 23.000. at a maximum rate of$41,000 this year. 1 think thatif the honourable senator looks at the Budget he will note that the money is available this year. That is all the information that I can give him. 
The honourable senator seeks information on a number of points that he has listed. I shall have to obtain this information for him. A totally and permanently incapacitated pensioner would not be offered an extra benefit unless he would be a lot better off than he had been before the Budget was introduced. I will also include in my answer to the honourable senator the reasons why the Government has increased this pension although a pensioner may lose some offset benefits. But what he loses on the swings, as it were, he picks up on the roundabouts. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the Bill is to provide parliamentary authority for the execution on behalf of the Commonwealth of an agreement between the Commonwealth and the States for a reconstruction scheme for the fruit growing industries and to appropriate funds for grants to the States for carrying out the scheme set out in the agreement. The agreement, which is contained in the schedule to the Bill, provides for the expenditure of $4.6m to fund amounts committed by State reconstruction authorities in respect of applications by growers for assistance for the removal of specified fruit trees. 
It is an unfortunate fact that the prices Australian fruit growers are able to secure on overseas markets for fresh and canned fruit have declined markedly in recent years while costs have risen to further erode producers' returns. At the same time, the quantity of fruit we have been able to sell overseas has also fallen. These difficulties are certain to be accentuated when the United Kingdom is fully integrated into the European Economic Community. 
A vigorous promotion effort is being maintained in an effort to develop alternate markets. In spite of this those sectors of the fruit growing industry which have been supplying fresh apples and pears and canned peaches and pears to markets in Europe and especially the United Kingdom are now faced with a very severe over production problem. It is a problem which the growers are clearly unable to handle from their own resources and one which cannot be solved in the foreseeable future by the excessive build up of stocks nor their disposal by discounted sales which would erode reasonable returns from existing and newly developed markets. The Government has therefore decided to help growers to remove fruit trees in order to assist the industry to find a solution to the over production problem. 
This, of course, is not the only measure to assist the fruit growing industries. The Government has been aware of their difficulties and has provided very substantial funds in recent years to assist them, $13.8m has been paid out in devaluation compensation, $2.6m has been contributed to stabilisation arrangements for apples and pears and $6.4m has been advanced to assist certain canneries. In addition a considerable proportion of the fertiliser subsidies has gone to fruitgrowing. In spite of this support, many growers and some canneries today are in severe financial difficulties. Although the failure by canneries to maintain minimum pricing arrangements in Australia and abroad has eroded market returns and contributed significantly to the present problems of the industry, there has been no real advantage to consumers. Accordingly the Government believes it is now essential to extend the rural reconstruction scheme to assist those in the horticultural area so that the industry may again become more viable. 
The measures proposed in the Bill have evolved partly from recommendations made in November 1971 by the Australian Apple and Pear Board for the reconstruction of the fresh pome fruit industry and partly from recommendations made in January 1972 by the Canned Deciduous Fruits 
Industry Advisory Committee for a tree removal scheme for canning peaches and pears as a means of dealing with the oversupply problem in that section of the horticultural industry. A number of meetings were held between representatives of the Commonwealth, the States and, whenever appropriate, the industry, during the first half of 1972 to consider the proposals which had been made. One element common to both proposals was for an across the board compensation scheme for the removal of surplus fruit trees to provide a long term solution to the over-supply problem. The main beneficiaries would be those fruit growers whose trees had not been removed and who would be remaining in a viable industry. Yet the compensation assistance would also enable those leaving the industry to do so with reasonable prospects of establishing themselves again and without leaving neglected orchards, unsatisfied creditors and with insurmountable debt burdens around their necks. 
The Commonwealth's view was that for such a scheme the Commonwealth, the States and the industry should each provide a proportion of the necessary funds. At a meeting of Commonwealth and State Ministers to consider a tree pull compensation scheme it became apparent that neither the industries involved nor the States were prepared to make contributions to the funds at more than a nominal level. The Commonwealth then re-examined its position and made an offer to the States of a broader-based fruitgrowing reconstruction scheme which would be an extension of the existing rural reconstruction scheme and which would be wholly financed by the Commonwealth. As an adjunct to the rural reconstruction scheme, the fruitgrowing reconstruction scheme would not be confined to pome fruit and canning deciduous fruits. By agreement between the Commonwealth and the States it can be extended to other horticultural industries in a chronic surplus production situation. A stipulation was that to be included the trees or vines producing the fruit should take at least 5 years to reach full production and have a bearing life of at least 10 years. Being set in the rural reconstruction context, the assistance provided under the scheme had also to meet needs criteria and therefore had to be restricted to growers facing financial difficulties. This offer was accepted by the States in the terms set out in the agreement contained in the Bill. 
The scheme will provide assistance for tree removal to 2 categories of growers: Firstly, those farmers, predominantly hor.ticulturalists who are in severe financial difficulties and who wish to clear fell their orchards and leave the industry; and secondly, those whose properties would become viable if some or all fruit trees were removed and the land put to other use, but who lack the resources to finance the removal of trees. The scheme is primarily designed to assist the growers of canning peach and canning pear trees and fresh apple and fresh pear trees. To this end the agreement provides that the initial objective of the Commonwealth and States ls that S2.3m will be used for the removal of canning peach and canning pear trees and the remaining balance of $2.3m will be used for the removal of fresh apple and fresh pear trees. Applications lodged with Slate administering authorities from the date the scheme was first announced, that is, 14th July 1972, are being considered for assistance and further applications will be accepted up to 30th June 1973. It will be a condition of the grant of any assistance that the relevant trees are removed before a date specified by the State authority, but in no case under this present Bill will assistance be pa:d in respect of trees removed after 31st October 1973. All trees to be removed will have to be inspected before removal in order for producers to be considered for assistance. 
The rates of assistance to be paid to eligible growers will be determined by the State authority administering the scheme and will take into account the age, condition and variety of trees, yield per acre, market access and other circumstances of the individual case deemed relevant, including whether it is necessary for a composition of creditors to be arranged and for the rural reconstruction authority to take over the property. The maximum levels of assistance will be $500 per acre for canning peaches and canning pears and $350 per acre for fresh apples and fresh pears. It is provided, however, that the average rate of assistance in any State, will not exceed $350 per acre for canning peaches and canning pears and $200 per acre for fresh apples and fresh pears. 
Initially funds will be provided to the States as required, but the scheme itself and the use of funds within the provisions of this Bill will be subject to an early review, at the latest by February 1973, at which time adjustments may be made in the light of experience and in conjunction with the review of the rural reconstruction scheme as a whole. This date is seen as the date on which the whole of the operation of rural reconstruction can be examined in the light of experience. This extension into the horticulture field is of new character, with the Commonwealth entering a new area, and for that reason it is felt that a review of the Bill should also be included with the general review and the possibility of variations or adjustments to the scheme. Of course, any extensions of it will be considered at the same time. 
As a safeguard against replanting trees, a grower who is granted tree removal assistance under the scheme will be required to enter into a contractual arrangement under which, in return for assistance in the form of a loan, he agrees not to replant within a 5-year period such fruit trees or vines as are specified by agreement between the Commonwealth and the States. Provided this undertaking has been honoured the loan will be converted into a grant at the end of the 5-year period. Horticultural producers assisted under the fruit-growing reconstruction scheme will still be eligible for the other forms of assistance provided under the existing rural reconstruction scheme. 

 Mr President, this scheme is one of a series of measures introduced by the Government as a component of an overall policy designed to enable farmers to adjust to changing market and economic circumstances. The pressures facing the canning fruits and apple and pear industries are intense. Currency re-alignments, rising ocean freight rates and competition in overseas markets have contributed to growers' difficulties. On top of this Britain's entry into the European Economic Community next year will compound the problems. Removal of surplus trees is a means of effecting a rapid adjustment of supply to available demand. The Government hopes that the end result will be a healthy, vigorous and more self-reliant fruitgrowing industry. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Byrne)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to enable the maximum tonnage of export apples and pears eligible for payment at the maximum rate of 80c per bushel under the Commonwealth stabilisation scheme to be raised in respect of the current season from 4.4 to 4.9 million bushels. The apple and pear stabilisation plan commenced with the 1971-72 season, which ended on 30th September of last year. This is the second year of its operation. At the conclusion of the first season an aggregate payment of approximately $2.6m was made to the industry under the scheme. There is no doubt that the apple and pear industry is in severe trouble particularly in Tasmania. Markets in Europe are contracting as storage techniques there are improved. Serious problems lie ahead in the light of the United Kingdom entry into the European Economic Community and returns have been eroded by significantly higher costs particularly by drastic freight increases, just to mention some of a range of difficulties with which the industry is faced. 
Recently the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  announced on behalf of the Government an offer which had been made to the States on the introduction of a tree pull compensation scheme for horticultural industries which would be an extension of the existing rural reconstruction scheme. All States have now accepted in principle the Commonwealth offer. Under the scheme the Government will introduce legislation to provide up to $4.6m to the States for the operation of the tree pull scheme, which could be administered by the existing State reconstruction authorities. It is expected that the scheme will initially apply principally to apples and fresh pears and canning peaches and pears. Subject to review 52.3m will be allocated to fresh pome fruit and $2.3m to canning fruit. By its making of this offer the Commonwealth has demonstrated its very practical concern with the difficulties which the apple and pear industry is facing. 
The problems of the industry are also under study by the Australian Agricultural Council but, because of the scope and complexity of these problems, it must be some time before specific proposals are available for consideration by Governments. In the light of this fact the Commonwealth Government has decided that some special measure of assistance should be granted to the industry pending completion of the studies to determine more permanent adjustment measures. It has therefore decided that in respect of 1972 exports only the maximum tonnage of apples and pears eligible for payment under the stabilisation scheme should be raised from 4.4 million bushels, as at present provided under the legislation, to 4.9 million bushels. This would add an amount of $400,000 to the maximum Commonwealth commitment under the Stabilisation Scheme for the current season. 
At the time of bringing down the Apple and Pear Stabilization Bill 1971. in the Senate I said that it was unusual, in speaking to a Bill which will have application to the affairs of an industry which is spread over Australia, to elaborate upon the particular circumstances of one State. I said, however, I felt that in the context of the scheme proposed under that Bill I should draw attention to the particular importance of the apple and pear industry in Tasmania. In saying that I was not attempting to take away from the relevant importance of that industry in some other States. At the time I quoted facts and figures which demonstrated just what the industry does mean to the island State. Once again Tasmania is very much in the thoughts of the Government in proposing this special arrangement in respect of the 1972 season. 
It is very much hoped that the practical application of the Government's recently announced tree pull plan and the interim additional concession which is the subject of this Bill will, together with whatever other steps may be taken in the light of the proposals to emerge from the Agricultural Council's consideration of the industry's problems, do much to assist the industry. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator O'Byrne)  adjourned. 
I know of no such purchase. I ask the honourable senator to put his question on notice. 
This is the responsibility of the Minister for Defence and I do not think it will do any good to ask the Minister for the Army to reply. I will make some inquiries and see what I can find out. 
In recent months 2 aircraft have been lost over Vietnam. At this stage no information is available as to what happened to them but I would think that flying can be quite hazardous at any time and operational flying more so. In view of the record of the F111 in operational areas at the present time I do not think there need by any concern for Australia's 24 F111C. At the present time they are going through a refurbishing programme which is up to date. Those aircraft will be thoroughly tested by the time we take delivery of them next May. 
I move: 
That the sitting of the Senate be suspended until 8 p.m. to enable Estimates Committee B to sit. 
I am sorry that I did not give the Senate more notice of this motion; but, at the ringing of the bells at a quarter past 4 to call the Senate into session, the  Chairman  of Estimates Committee B indicated to me that he thought that if that Committee had a little more time it would be able to complete its hearings today. As the officers of the Postmaster-General's Department are present in Parliament House, I think that the sitting of the Senate should be suspended to enable Estimates Committee B to conclude its hearings. I have spoken to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Willesee)  and to the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Democratic Labor Party  (Senator McManus),  and they are in agreement with this proposal. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Sitting suspended from 5.2 to 8 p.m. 
As  the  honourable senator would know, there has been a quite considerable investigation of the effects of 1080. As to the remainder of his question, I think I had better have a look at it and seek further information on it. 
I think that the honourable senator and I can only go on what we saw in the Press. Neither of us heard the statement made by the Minister. I think I had better get a copy of the Minister's statement so that we can have a look at it. 
Pursuant to section 82 of the Repatriation Act 1920-1972, I present the reports of the War Pensions Entitlement Appeal Tribunals Nos 1, 2, 3 and 4 for the year ended 30th June 1972. 
in reply  -  I thought that we could deal with the Budget Papers 1972-73 and the Appropriation Bills tomorrow. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I think that that assurance will be quite unnecessary in view of the record of the Australian Wheat Board over past years. Honourable senators will recall that only last week the Minister for Primary Industry made the statement that all wheat, either quota or over quota, would be accepted this year from this harvest and that the first advance of SI. 10 would be paid on over quota wheat at the time of delivery. I point out to the honourable senator that the Wheat Board can vary its delivery dates over the coming year for sales made. It could extend some of the deliveries into the 1973-74 harvest if it found itself becoming short of wheat. I would accept that the Australian Wheat Board would have been considering carefully its old customers, as well as its new customers, at the time of making the sale to China. 
This seems to be a complaint that is put forward by each of the State governments. The honourable senator will recall that early in the year there was a meeting in Sydney of State Ministers concerned with the Minister for Primary Industry. At that time the Commonwealth agreed that the $100m previously made available to the States over 4 years should now be made available to the States over 2 years. The Commonwealth has made that money available to the States and it is up to the State authorities to process these applications that they receive as quickly as possible. 
Pursuant to section 17 of the Meat Research Act 1960-1968. I present the 6th annual report of the Australian Meat Research Committee for the year ended 30th June 1972. An interim report of the Committee was presented to the House on 19th September 1972. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I ask leave for the second reading speech to be incorporated in Hansard. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Lawrie)  - Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - On 19th September, I made a statement to the Senate in the same terms as a statement in the other place by the Prime Minister announcing that the Government proposed to take new initiatives to work with the States towards urban and regional development objectives. I said that the Government had decided that it will take immediate steps financially and in other ways in a co-ordinated programme with the State governments. The introduction of this Bill fulfils the commitment then given to introduce interim legislation into Parliament this session. Although the legislation is interim, the new authority set up by the Bill will nevertheless be required to operate with vigour and in accord with its charter from the outset. In a vast country which is developing as rapidly as Australia, it is most important that the Government take responsible action which will influence the distribution of population and economic activity to the economic and social advantage of the nation. 
The stresses and strains of growth are having an impact on the living conditions and the environment of the entire Australian community. These pressures which are being felt in many countries, present issues of national moment warranting cooperative action between the Commonwealth and the states. We have the experience of the United Kingdom, France and Canada amongst others to draw on. The Government believes that unless we embark on a vigorous, imaginative and responsible programme of urban and regional development, in partnership with the States, our efforts to secure a better quality of life for the Australian community through a wide variety of existing programmes will be compromised. The consequences of the imbalance caused by the concentration of population and employment around the principal Australian cities with the resulting problems of congestion and pollution are such that action must now be taken. The trend to increasing concentration is already evident to a degree which is causing concern. If no action is taken, the problem will become more acute as our population grows from 13 million to possibly 22 million over the balance of the century. The increasing concentration of population in our great cities will magnify the consequences of increasing population growth. It is the geographical distribution of population and industry rather than total scale which calls for our attention. 
We believe it is widely accepted that these are national problems requiring urgent attention, and that the Commonealth should participate with the states in solving them. We believe too that a properly conceived and well managed programme of urban and regional development will be approved and welcomed by the community generally. It is clear that the Commonwealth and States must work together. It is also clear that there will be a need for additional expenditure and the Commonwealth stands ready to contribute its share. As importantly, we will shape our own policies and programmes where appropriate so as to ensure that urban and regional implications are fully taken into account. The implementation of a successful national programme of urban and regional development could mark a turning point in the social and economic life of this country. 
Our efforts must be successful. Therefore, they must be properly conceived. The Commonwealth-State Officials' Committee on Decentralisation which conducted its researches in the Australian context concluded that the only type of decentralisation which offers significant prospects of success is selective decentralisation. As stated on 19th September, the Commonwealth endorses this conclusion and favours the development of a small number of carefully selected centres, having regard to factors likely to be favourable to their growth. Later on, with the benefit of more experience and the availability of more resources, it can be expected that additional centres will be selected for accelerated growth. We will want to identify and encourage the balanced growth of sub-metropolitan centres as an alternative to growth in the existing city areas. 
In co-operation with the States, we will look for those sub-metropolitan centres that offer the greatest potential for rapid development. These will be centres near to but distinct from the existing major cities. It is our view that the development of regional growth centres and submetropolitan centres - projects capable of being defined, programmed and financed - offers the most direct and beneficial means of immediate Commonwealth involvement. As the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  has emphasised, however, the action to be taken must be taken in consultation and partnership with the States. Our early discussions with the States will have as their first objective the fullest understanding of the nature of the problems to be overcome. We will be seeking to establish how best the combined resources of the Commonwealth and State governments can be marshalled to tackle these in an economic way and in the interests of the nation as a whole. 
As was stated on 19th September, it will be necessary to guard against the cost of development of selected centres being inflated by increases in land values directly attributable to the policy initiatives of the Slates and the Commonwealth. This Bill is the first step towards implementation of a new Commonwealth initiative. It is. however, designed to establish the national urban and regional development authority on a proper and sound basis and to enable it to commence its work immediately. The nature of any later legislation will, of course, be determined in the light of experience. Nevertheless, the name given to the authority clearly indicates the Government's longer term interest. We are concerned with national objectives in urban and regional development and we are concerned with development itself. Ours is a practical approach and the concept of a statutory authority and of the title chosen for it reflects our practical aims. 
It is proposed that the authority be constituted by a commissioner. The Prime Minister announced that with the passage of the legislation, the Government proposes to invite  Sir John  Overall to serve as the first commissioner and to guide the new organisation in its initial establishment period. The Government is fortunate in having a person as experienced and so able as  Sir John  to call on until his retirement in July next year. The Bill also provides for the commissioner to be assisted by a  deputy  commissioner. The appointment of statutory office holders will be effected as soon as possible after the Bill is passed. The duties of the authority are stated in clause 12. It will be required to investigate and report to the Prime Minister on matters relating to urban or regional development. This investigation and advice would be designed to assist the Government in making decisions having urban and regional implications. It will also be designed to assist the government in its consideration of the grant of financial assistance to a state in connection with urban or regional development. 
Such matters as the selection of centres for the promotion of rapid growth, the particular steps by which this might be encouraged, practical arrangements for rapid development, and financial questions including the scale of Commonwealth support, are relevant to the establishment of a co-ordinated programme. Advice would be available to the Government from the authority on the terms and conditions on which financial assistance for urban and regional development might be granted by Parliament. The Bill provides for the authority to have power to do all things that are necessary or convenient for the performance of its functions. It may undertake pilot or experimental projects, studies, including feasibility studies. It may enter into consultative engagements with professional groups and government agencies, and provide information and advice to other authorities. 
Provision is made in the Bill for the authority to comply with any directions given by the Prime Minister with respect to matters to be investigated by the authority. This clause will ensure, for example, that decisions reached by the ministerial council, consisting of the Prime Minister and the Premiers, which was referred in the statement on 19th September, are followed through in the operations of the authority. In addition to the normal provision for an annual report, the authority is required to report to the Prime Minister not later than 30th June 1973 on matters relating to urban and regional development during the 5-year period thereafter. It is not the Government's intention that the authority should produce by that time a definitive statement on a national urban and regional development strategy. The Government does, however, propose to move in an expenditure sense commencing from the financial year 1973-74. It will be the responsibility of the authority, therefore, to advise the Government in time for its budget considerations in 1973 of the broad direction in which Commonwealth activity in urban and regional development might be shaped over the 5-year period. This will not be a final blueprint but rather the first statement of an active programme. The steps involved in its preparation will be discussed by the ministerial council. Funds will be made available during this present financial year 1972-73 for the initial operations of the authority. 
The Bill, of course, contains appropriate provisions relating to officers' rights, staff, audit and finance. The Bill establishes an advisory committee of up to 12 members including the commissioner. The committee will be comprised or persons who, by virtue of their knowledge and experience, can assist the authority in the performance of its duties. This is a formal committee created by the statute with membership appointed by the Prime Minister and designed to ensure the availability of a wide range of advice and response to the authority. 
At the level of governments, it has already been mentioned that we propose the establishment of a ministerial council consisting of the Prime Minister and Premiers as the principal body for consultation and co-ordination in the field of urban and regional development. The Prime Minister has already written to the Premiers about the Commonwealth's intentions. Honourable senators have already noted from my remarks that the authority will be responsible to the Prime Minister. This central place in the machinery of Government will add strength to the discussions between him and his State colleagues. 
This Bill is amongst the most important legislation introduced into the Federal Parliament during the post-war years. It marks our recognition that there is a direct contribution that the Commonwealth Government can make in national urban and regional development for the benefit of all Australians. Commonwealth assistance for urban and regional development is not new. What is new is Commonwealth participation with the States in a co-ordinated programme of urban and regional development. Our objectives - the objectives of the Liberal and Country Parties - will not be achieved easily or overnight. But it is important to make a start in the prevailing climate of accord about the need for new initiatives and the broad nature of them. We will pursue these objectives vigorously. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator O'Byrne)  adjourned. 
Pursuant to section 8 of the Poultry Industry Assistance Act 1965-66, I present the seventh annual report on the operation of the Act for the year ended 30th June 1972. 
BROCKMAN (Western Australia - Minister for Air) - For the information of honourable senators I present the official report of the Australian Parliamentary Delegation to Japan and Korea. 
Firstly, 1 refer to the question which  Senator Wilkinson  asked me as to whether the Corporation could operate on the futures market. 1 said that it could under clause 38 (1.) (k). That is so, I believe, but if it cannot operate on the futures market under that clause, then I believe that it can do so under clause 20. Turning to the clause presently under discussion, as  Senator Little  has said, under clause 38 (I.) (o) of the Bill the Australian Wool Corporation is specifically empowered to inquire into arid report upon the methods of marketing the Australian wool clip, including the question of a compulsory acquisition scheme. 
With ministerial approval the Corporation could operate on the futures market. This could come up in the consideration of clause 38 (1.)(k) but I understand that there is another clause which could apply more specifically to this practice. 1 am trying to find it. I can say that with the approval of the Minister the Corporation could operate on the futures market. It could do so under clause 38(l.)(k) plus another clause which I will indicate to you later on. 
Clause 38 (1.) (a) contains the words:  to operate a flexible reserve price scheme in respect of wool offered for sale  at  auction; 
That is all it says. If the words 'or otherwise' are added, an attempt is made to introduce a flexible reserve price into wool that is sold privately. In other words, if I sold my wool privately to a manufacturer in Leeds it could be said that by adding the words 'or otherwise' there should be a flexible reserve price in that sale. How the dickens can that be done? It cannot be done. 
The words 'or otherwise' mean sale by tender or sale by private treaty. That is all they can mean. There are dozens of ways of selling wool by private treaty. I simply cited this simple example of my selling my own wool direct to the manufacturer at Leeds. How is the Corporation to operate a private treaty sale of wool? 
The honourable senator will realise that in this Bill we are incorporating the regulations and operating functions of the Australian Wool Commission and the Australian Wool Board. I understand that the Corporation is to be given in this Bill the right to employ staff on terms that it decides so that it can operate on a commercial basis. The precedent for this is that the Commission already has this right. We are transferring to the Corporation the right of the Commission as we said we would. 
I have not had any representations from the Werribee Shire Council, but at all times the Royal Australian Air Force works closely with local government authorities and does whatever it can to assist them. Recently I received similar complaints from a shire. I asked the officer commanding to get in touch with the shire. Everything was straightened out. The department makes every effort to assist the local authorities. I will certainly look into the matter see what I can ascertain and let the honourable senator have further information on the matter. 
I did see a newspaper report in which it was alleged that $62,000 had been spent- 
We will take all the pluses. I just want to say to the honourable senator that 1 made inquiries. It is my understanding that there is no substance whatsoever in the report. There is no requirement to change any technical or procurement documents as a result of a change in name and no such costs have been incurred. The honourable senator is interjecting. Apparently he does not want to hear what I have to say. 
Pursuant to clause 8 of the Sugar Agreement 1969, I present the report on the operations of the Fruit Industry Sugar Concession Committee for the year ended 30th June 1972, together with the Committee's financial statements and the Auditor-General's report on those statements. 
-In clause 38 (1.) (o). 
It might not spell it out, but I said that the Corporation is empowered to do that. As I mentioned in my second reading speech on that Bill, the Government will be looking to the Corporation to investigate the whole question of wool marketing and to prepare a detailed plan for a compulsory acquisition scheme clearly defined in all respects. Providing a satisfactory and acceptable plan can be devised, the Government is prepared to develop the necessary legislation in conjunction with the States. I think  Senator Milliner  asked: 'What control have we got over the Corporation?" If the Corporation brings up a plan for acquisition, we must introduce into the Parliament legislation to implement an acquisition scheme. So there is control over it. 
Your amendment has a lot wrong with it, and I will tell you about in a minute. I am quite sure that the Corporation will give high priority to the preparation of a detailed acquisition scheme. The Government considers, however, that it would not be proper to impose an arbitrary time limit on the Corporation to complete its task. To do so would be to impose an undesirable condition on the Corporation which could hamper it in its investigations into this important matter and adversely affect the quality of its report. 
When this Bill is given assent, (he first job the Corporation will have to do is to get all the people presently employed by the Australian Wool Board and the Australian Wool Commission into one organisation, the Australian Wool Corporation. Some of the men from those 2 organisations will be given jobs different from those which they are doing at the present time. A tremendous amount of work will be involved in setting up the Corporation. But at the same time the Corporation will have to carry out its functions. Wool sales will be held and the flexible reserve price scheme will continue to operate. These men will face terrific problems in trying to establish and get the Corporation functioning. In addition, under clause 38 we are asking the Corporation to carry out an investigation into an acquisition scheme. I have heard it said that an acquisition scheme is easy to introduce. I heard  Senator Primmer  say that a few moments ago. People say that all the information is in the Wool Board or in the Wool Commission. 
I never said he did. I said I heard  Senator Primmer  say that an acquisition scheme is easy to introduce. If  Senator Poyser  wants me to make it plainer, I said I have heard other people say that the required information about an acquisition scheme is already in the Wool Board or in the Wool Commission. I want to say that that is not so. A detailed acquisition plan has never been spelt out. If one looks at the 1951- postJoint Organisation scheme one will find that it envisaged a fixed floor price which was to be determined each season and not altered during the season except under exceptional circumstances. If one looks at the 1965 scheme one finds again that it was a reserve price plan. Like the 1951 scheme, it provided for a fixed reserve price determined seasonally and approved by the Government. If we are to introduce a compulsory acquisition scheme embracing the total Australian wool clip, it can be implemented only through Commonwalth and State complementary legislation. Appropriate legislation can be drafted and considered only when a detailed plan for wool acquisition has been developed. I have referred to the post-Joint Organisation scheme. I omitted to mention the Philp report of 1962, which again gave no information about an acquisition scheme. 
That is a scheme recommended by the Minister for Agriculture in New Zealand for acquiring the total clip. But because the Minister in New Zealand is not sure that he has a majority of growers on his side, it has been decided to delay placing the recommendation before the Parliament. 
Consideration interrupted. 
in reply  -  I was very pleased to hear the last point made by  Senator McLaren  because I have been looking at some of my notes concerning the Australian Labor Party Federal Conference which was held at Launceston in June. At that conference  Mr Hayden,  the honourable member for Oxley, said that the ALP did not have a primary industry programme with a comprehensive and integrated approach. He said: 'What we have is a loose patchwork of totally unrelated propositions'. In the "Australian Financial Review' of 19th February 1970 it was reported that  Mr Hawke  did not deny that some farmers were in financial trouble, but these were almost solely small and inefficient marginal farmers. I refer to those matters because of the remarks made by  Senator McLaren. 
I thank' honourable senators who have made a contribution to the debate on these 2 Bills. I think that this legislation will put the wool industry in a position of stability that it has never before experienced. I refer now to the remarks made by  Senator Wilkinson.  He said that the Australian Wool Industry Conference had asked for certain things.  Senator Wilkinson  was referring  to-  the meeting in November 1971 when the AWIC agreed to the appointment of a special committee to investigate as a matter of urgency a broad outline of a plan designed to place the industry on a firmer basis in the long term. 
The industry said that such a plan should involve the studying of the amalgamation of the Australian Wool Board and the Australian Wool Commission and the composition of the powers and functions of the new body. It also said that a committee should look at improvements in wool marketing, including the merits or otherwise of an acquisition scheme with or without fixed prices and the manner in which the wool should be disposed of, by auction or direct sales. It then went on to enumerate a number of other points that it believed the committee should look at. The committee placed a report before the AWIC in January 1971. The AWIC adopted the recommendations of the special committee. On 16th March  Mr A.  J. Vasey,  chairman  of the Australian Wool Industry Conference, presented the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  with a plan for an integrated marketing system for the Australian wool clip. 
I want to remind the Senate of some of the matters referred to when the  chairman  of the AWIC presented his submission to the Minister for Primary Industry. He said: 

 Mr Sinclair, on behalf of the Australian Wool Industry Conference 1 present the attached submission to the Commonwealth Government recommending the Australian Wool Board and the Australian Wool Commission be amalgamated into a single body which might be called the Australian Wool Authority and that an acquisition plan may be introduced by the Authority into the marketing arrangement for the Australian wool clip. 
He then made some other comments. In the. third paragraph of his letter containing the proposals he said that the Conference had examined not only the immediate requirements of the wool industry but also its needs in the long term. He said that probably not all the powers recommended for the. proposed authority would require immediate implementation. Some powers would need supporting legislation by the States. He said that the use when granted would still be subject to ministerial approval as would certain others; nevertheless it was considered prudent for the legislation to include at the outset all powers intended for the Authority whether or not they would be exercised immediately.  Mr Vasey  went on to se.t out the committee's recommendations. 
I remind the Senate that this committee was set up in November 1970. It made recommendations to the. AWIC in January 1971 and to the Government on 16th March 1971. The Minister then had the opportunity to study the recommendations and make a submission to Cabinet. The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  made a statement on 20th June 1971 in which he said that the Government had accepted certain recommendations of the wool industry. 
It has been said that in this period there was a great deal of delay and hesitancy on the part of the Government. 1 remind the Senate that in November 1971, about the time when the Australian Wool Industry Conference set up its special committee, the Government appointed the Randall Committee to inquire, into the wool industry because of the continual fall in wool prices which had reached practically an all time low in the history of the industry. 
Following the submission of the Australian Wool Industry Conference in March, the proposals that were placed before the Minister were then submitted to the Cabinet. The Cabinet in its turn asked the Randall Committee whether it would look at the submission of the AWIC. It is my contention that time had to be given to this Committee to study these matters. 
I believe that the Government has gone out of its way to meet the requirements of the wool industry.  Senator Wilkinson  said - I use his remarks because he led for the Opposition - that he had had many representations from organisations in regard to acquisition of the wool clip but he could not see. any proposals for acquisition of the wool clip set out in the Bill.  Senator Wilkinson  is a Western Australian and no doubt he has received representations from the Farmers Union in that State. 
Yes. Therefore, I turn to the submission of the Farmers Union in Western Australia in which it put proposals before the Government, the Minister for Primary Industry, members of this chamber and members of another place. The submission of the Farmers Union, under the heading 'Acquisition' proposes that it be compulsory for all wool leaving a property to come, under the jurisdiction of the wool authority. In other words, as soon as the wool was shorn and was pushed out through the shed door, it would become the property of the Wool Corporation or the appropriate wool authority. I believe that that is a scheme which we. could have some day, perhaps in 10 years* time. But I do not believe that in this instance it would find favour amongst wool growers in Australia. 
The honourable senator and I well know the views of the Farmers Union on this matter. I point out to the Senate that I believe that the honourable senator favours the Farmers Union submission on this matter- 
I stand corrected on that. The honourable senator is using it for support. A meeting of the Executive of the Australian Wool 
Industry Conference was held in Melbourne on 25th September. Attending that meeting were representatives from the ad hoc committee - I referred to it earlier as the special committee - and, following that meeting;  Mr Vasey,  the  Chairman  of the Australian Wool Industry Conference, issued a statement. I ask the Senate to note that statement which was made on 25th September 1972: 
The  chairman  of the AWIC,  Mr A.  J. Vasey, said that the Bill tabled in Canberra had been examined and discussed at length. 
The proposals put forward in that Bill are heartening and incorporate the great majority of the industry's recommendations for the future marketing of the Australian wool clip,' he said. 
Many of the issues have been dealt with in great detail and, in some respects, have provided the industry with benefits beyond Conference's expectations',  Mr Vasey  added. 
The Bill will amalgamate the existing Australian Wool Board and Wool Commission to form the Australian Wool Corporation. 
The new body will be empowered also to prepare a detailed plan for a compulsory acquisition scheme. 

 Senator McLaren said that the contents of this Bill accorded in part with Australian Labor Party policy but it did not go all the way and that if a change of government occurred the Labor Party would go the whole way and introduce a compulsory acquisition scheme. What  Senator McLaren  did not tell the Senate is that under its constitutional powers the Commonwealth cannot legislate alone to grant the power of compulsory acquisition to the Australian Wool Corporation. 
Senate*- McLaren - I did. 1 mentioned that. I said that you had to get the cooperation of the States, which you mentioned in your speech. I mentioned that when I said (hat the co-operation of the States was required. 
It was in my second reading speech but apparently you ignored it. 
To grant the Australian Wool Corporation the power to acquire the clip compulsorily not only must Commonwealth and industry consent be forthcoming but also complementary legislation must be introduced by the States. I take it from what  Senator McLaren  said that if the Australian Labor 
Party was in office all it would have to do would be to say that it wanted compulsory acquisition and the States would immediately fall into line. 
 I think the honourable senator even went so far as to say that there had been problems in the past. When he was speaking, [ heard an interjection from behind me asking: 'What about the wheat industry?' We all recall what happened in the wheat industry and how one State held out until the bitter end. 
I refer next to the dairying reconstruction scheme. For nearly 2 years the Minister for Primary Industry could not get one of the States to share in the money that the Commonwealth was making available then. In relation to the poultry industry my own State, Western Australia, had introduced legislation to restrict the number of laying hens that a producer should have. 
That may be so, but there were some State Ministers responsible for agriculture who did not give credit for it and held out for some considerable time. 
I want to point out to honourable senators that there will be certain specialist officers employed by the Corporation who will not be bound by any award. Their remunerations will be set by negotiation between themselves and the Corporation. Where men are employed to push the bales of wool around the store or something of that nature and they come under the Federated Storemen and Packers Union award they, of course, will be paid the award rates for that appropriate work. If there is handling of trucks around the store and the employees come under the Transport Workers Union award, they will be paid the appropriate award rate for that work. If the honourable senator wants an assurance where employees of the Corporation are employed in particular jobs for which award rates are fixed, then I say that the staff employed will be paid the award rates. 
Clauses agreed to. 
(1.) The functions of the Corporation include the following functions: 
to operate a flexible reserve price scheme in respect of wool offered for sale at auction; 
to inquire into (whether alone or in cooperation with other authorities and organisations), and from time to time report to the Minister and to the Australian Wool Industry Conference upon, methods of marketing wool (including any changes in wool marketing procedures that the Corporation considers necessary to enable the Corporation to exercise control over the marketing of all wool produced in Australia) and any other matters connected with the marketing of wool; and 
The members of the Australian Labor Party are not the. only ones who want to do their best for the wool industry. I want to do the best I can for the industry, as do my colleagues who sit behind me. Clause 38 of the Bill appears under the heading 'Part III - Wool Marketing'. Sub-clause (1.) of clause 38 sets out 15 functions of the Australian Wool Corporation. The Labor Party wants to amend paragraph (a) which reads: to operate a flexible reserve price scheme in respect of wool offered for sale at auction. 
I want honourable senators to look at the Bill as it stands at the present time, and at the words which the Labor Party wants to add. I want honourable senators to look at clause 41 which reads: (1.) The flexible reserve price scheme operated by the Corporation shall be a scheme under which - 
reserve prices for the various types of wool being offered for sale at auction in accordance with arrangements referred to in paragraph (d) of sub-section (1.) of section 38 of this Act are determined by or on behalf of the Corporation as frequently as the Corporation thinks necessary having regard to the bidding at recent auctions and to all other relevant information available to the Corporation; 
if, in respect of any wool submitted for sale at auction in accordance with any such arrangements, a bid equal to or greater than the appropriate reserve price determined by the Corporation is not made, the Corporation is prepared to buy the wool at the appropriate reserve price so determined; and 
the Corporation, as and when it thinks expedient, re-offers for sale at auction, or otherwise disposes of, wool acquired by it under the scheme. (2.) The Corporation shall, at fortnightly intervals, make reports to the Minister and the Treasurer concerning the operation of its reserve price scheme, and shall include in the reports such Information as the Minister directs concerning - fa) the reserve prices determined by the Corporation; 
wool purchased and wool held by the Corporation; and 
sales of wool by the Corporation and proposed offerings of wool by the Corporation. (3.) The Minister shall, from time to time, after consultation with the Treasurer, inform the Corporation in writing of the policies and principles that the Government of the Commonwealth considers should be followed and applied by the Corporation in the operation of its reserve price scheme. (4.) The Minister may, on behalf of the Government of the Commonwealth, if he thinks it necessary to do so, give a direction in writing to the Corporation with respect to the operation of the reserve price scheme of the Corporation, and the Corporation shall comply with the direction. 
I think that is understandable. If we do as the Labor Party suggests and add the words 'or otherwise', we immediately introduce the question of the sale of wool by tender and all the various schemes for selling wool privately. If we consider what is contained in clause 41, how can we incorporate a flexible reserve price scheme, along the lines set out in the Bill for the sale of wool by auction, in a private tender scheme or in the many schemes by which wool is sold privately? It would become an impossibility; we could not do it. When we refer to selling wool by tender we should look at clause 38 (l.)(k) which reads:  to keep under constant review the practice of the buying and selling of wool outside the auction system, and to make recommendations to the Minister as to measures for dealing with any detrimental effects that that practice is having in relation to the objects of this Act or the requirements of the next succeeding section and to take such measures as the Minister approves for the purpose of reducing or eliminating those detrimental effects: 
Under that paragraph it is quite possible to submit bids for wool by tender. So in that way we overcome part of the Opposition's objection. But in regard to the variety of schemes that are in operation throughout Australia for the purchase of wool privately, there is nothing in clause 41 which allows us to do what the Opposition suggests. So we would not be able to incorporate a reserve price scheme by adding the words 'or otherwise' to clause 38 (1.), as the Opposition suggests. 
If a buyer went on to a farm to buy wool, how would the Corporation know whether the price he paid was anywhere near the flexible reserve price which the Corporation had fixed for its wool? The Corporation would need to have a man standing alongside the buyer on the farm in order to find out what was going on. Under the Australian Wool Commission Act the Commission has the right to ascertain from private buyers the amount of wool sold and certain other details. I recognise what  Senator Wilkinson  is trying to do by adding the words 'or otherwise' to clause 38(1.), but he is creating an unworkable problem, on which neither 1 as the Minister in this place representing the Minister for Primary Industry nor any of my advisers nor anyone in the wool industry can give  Senator Wilkinson  any assistance. If we introduce private treaty wool we can then apply clause 41 to the situation. As I say, what the Opposition suggests is an impossibility. That is why I, as the Minister in charge of the Bill in this chamber, cannot accept the amendment. 
1 have a background in the wool industry but I am not used to speaking whereas the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  is an excellent  speaker  but he does not have a wool background. 
Yes. he put it very fairly. I recognise what  Senator Wilkinson  is trying to do. What he is trying to do can be done under clause 38(l.)(k). If  Senator Wilkinson  wants to add the words 'or otherwise' to clause 38(1.) (a) then it must be taken in conjunction with the definition of how a flexible reserve price scheme will operate for wool sold by auction. That definition will be found in clause 41. When we add 'or otherwise' we bring in sale by tender and the various types of sale by private treaty or sales to the London market. Apart from clause 38(l.)(k), which provides for what  Senator Wilkinson  is trying to do, we cannot define a reserve price in clause 41 for the sale of wool by tender or the various types of sale by private treaty. Because of the complexity of trying to do this, we have to act under clause 38 (1.) (k). 

 Senator Murphy has said that the words or otherwise' appear in clause 40 in relation to wool bought by the Corporation. That is quite true. This can be done because the Corporation can buy wool from a private treaty buyer who might have bought it from some private buyer who had gone to the farm. No reserve price operates on that particular wool. The Corporation can buy by tender. 
I do not want to bring the price averaging plan into this. The Corporation is able to buy by auction or otherwise under clause 40. But when we try to add the words 'or otherwise' to clause 38(1.) (a) then we must look also at clause 41 and try to obtain a definition for buying wool by tender and by a variety of private treaties. Honourable senators will find that very complicated. To overcome this problem the Bill has provided that this can be done with the approval of the Minister under clause 38 (1 .) (k). This is the same thing as  Senator Wilkinson  is trying to do. 
Pursuant to section 36 of the Canned Fruits Export Marketing Act 1963-1970, I present the 46th annual report of the Australian Canned Fruits Board for the year ended 31st December 1971, together with financial statements and the report of the AuditorGeneral on those statements. 
I point out to  Senator O'Byrne  that although the scheme is in only the second year of a 5-year term the Government has already carried out a review of stabilisation payments. As a matter of course the Government carries out a continuing review of all of its stabilisation schemes. It should be remembered, too that the industry is continually talking to the Minister for Primary Industry about these matters. I do not think it is necessary to have provision for a review to be undertaken specifically written into the legislation. As I have said, it is something which the Government does automatically over the years of operation of the scheme. I recognise the point that  Senator O'Byrne  is getting at. We saw an example of this only this year. I think the legislation should be left as it is. For that reason, I cannot support the amendment. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be added  (Senator O'Byrne's amendment)  be added. 
I present the following petition from 589 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senatein Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That the Australian Education Council's Report on the Survey into Educational Needs has established serious deficiencies in the State's education services. 
That these can be summarised as a lack of suitable classroom accommodation, teacher shortage, oversized classes, inadequate equipment and facilities. 
That the additional sum of one thousand four hundred and forty three million dollars is required over the next five years by the States of these needs. 
That without massive additional Federal finance the State School system will face disintegration and with it the Nation. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Parliament will take immediate steps to ensure that finance from the Commonwealth will be given to the States for their public education services which provide schooling for seventy-eight per cent of Australia's children. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
When the Committee was interrupted last night I was replying to an amendment which had been moved by  Senator Wilkinson  on behalf of the Opposition to clause 38(l.)(o). The Opposition wants to insert a further paragraph which reads:  (oa) to formulate a detailed plan for operation by the Corporation, of a scheme to acquire and/or market the Australian wool clip and to report this plan to the Parliament within 6 months of the commencement of this Act; and. 
In reply to  Senator Wilksinson's  comments I informed the Committee that under clause 38(l.)(o) of the Wool Industry Bill the Australian Wool Corporation is specifically empowered to inquire into and report on the methods of marketing the Australian wool clip. I went on to point out to the Committee that, as I mentioned in my second reading speech on the Bill, the Government will be looking to the Corporation to investigate the whole question of wool marketing and to prepare a detailed plan for a compulsory acquisition scheme clearly defined in all respects. I then said that providing a satisfactory and acceptable plan can be devised the Government is prepared to develop the necessary legislation in conjunction with the States. In regard to bringing back a prepared report of the plan within 6 months I pointed out that I was quite sure that the Corporation would give high priority to the preparation of a detailed acquisition plan. I went on to say that the Government considered, however, that it would not be proper to impose an arbitrary time limit on the Corporation to complete its task. I said that to do so would be to impose an undesirable condition on the Corporation which could hamper its investigations into this important matter and adversely affect the quality of its report. 
I reminded the Committee that when this Bill was given Royal Assent a corporation would need to be formed which would be an amalgamation of the present Australian Wool Board and Australian Wool Commission. I thought that many of the men in those 2 bodies would have similar jobs in the new Corporation. There would be some men who would have to take up new positions. Of course, there would be the appointment of members to the Corporation itself. The Corporation would not only have to deal with the amalgamation but also it would have to continue with the wool selling schedules for the remainder of the wool selling season. At the same time it would have to continue its flexible reserve price scheme. I pointed out that I believe that that would be a major task. In addition, under clause 38(l.)(o) the corporation is to conduct an inquiry into the methods of marketing the Australian wool clip. If the corporation is to do what the Opposition is asking it to do, it will have to finalise a plan within 4 months or so because it will have to present it to the Minister for Primary Industry and to the Australian Wool Industry Conference before presenting it to Parliament. The Opposition is asking the Corporation to undertake a pretty impossible task if that is all to be done within 6 months. 
1 made reference to that in my reply. It must be recognised that a cumpulsory acquisition scheme embracing the total Australian wool clip can be implemented only through Commonwealth and State complementary legislation and that appropriate legislation can be drafted and considered only when a detailed plan for wool acquisition has been developed. So far  -  1 made this point last night - no one has produced a detailed plan for the compulsory acquisition of the total Australian wool clip. I know it has been bandied about by the industry that all the information for the drawing up of an acquisition scheme is already in the hands of the Australian Wool Board and the Australian Wool Commission, but this is not so. I agree that there was a post Joint Organisation scheme in 1951, but that was not an acquisition proposal and dealt only with a fixed floor price scheme. Granted there was the Wool Marketing Committee of Inquiry, known as the Philp inquiry, in 1962, but that did not deal with a detailed plan for an acquisition scheme. Granted the Wool Board report of 1964-65 did submit certain proposals or suggest that there should be a wool acquisition scheme but, again, it did not submit any detailed plan for acquisition. I recognise that in 1965 proposals were put forward on which there was a referendum, but that also was not for an acquisition scheme; it was for a fixed reserve price scheme. At the request of the industry the Australian Wool Commission today is operating a flexible reserve price scheme at auction. So the details that have to be spelt out in an acquisition scheme have still to be put forward by someone. At the present time they are not available to the industry. 

 Senator Primmer in his reply last night said that these details are easy to determine and would take no time to finalise. But let us look at some of the issues that have to be covered  in the preparation  of a plan for a compulsory acquisition scheme which would embrace the whole of the Australian wool clip. At what point is the wool to be acquired first of all by the Corporation? There has been considerable argument about this. As I said to  Senator Wilkinson  last night, the Farmers Union of Western Australia Incorporated is suggesting that wool be acquired at the shed door on each producers' property. However, there are other people who have other ideas on that. How will the wool be delivered to the Corporation? ft is all very well for those who sell through the auction sales because usually when this wool is sent for auction it is delivered direct to the brokers' stores. But what happens to the woo! that is sold privately? 
As  Senator Wilkinson  knows, well over 20 per cent of the wool clip in Western Australia is sold privately. Where is that wool to be delivered? What will bc the future role of the brokers, private traders and other commercial interests? No one has decided these points. What conditions are to apply for the registration of these interests to act as agents for the Corporation? The industry in its report has not made any detailed suggestions about this. What is to be the basis of appraising and valuing wool under an acquisition scheme? There has been no mention of that. To what extent will objective measurement be used in the evaluation of wool? Much has been said about objective measurement but no details have been given of the part that it will play in an acquisition scheme. 
Most important of all, how are growers to be paid? ls there to be a single payment or a first payment followed by a final payment? What provision should there be for the arbitration of disputes over the appraisal and valuation of a grower's clip? Although certain suggestions have been put forward there have been no decisions. What are to be the handling procedures in the stores? What amounts are to be deducted from grower's accounts for handling, selling and so on? All these matters have to be decided. What methods are to be used in the disposal of the wool? Is it to be by auction? Is it to be by open tender? Is it to be by negotiated price? Is it to be at quoted prices, in other words, through an appraisement scheme? How are contracts for handling and transport operators to be arranged? Who will do this and how will it work? What is to be the stock holding policy of the Corporation? We had the situation late last season where the Australian Wool Commission held up to 930,000 bales. Its holding now is well down on this figure. How much is the Corporation to hold? How would the capital requirements for a total acquisition scheme be raised and how much would be needed? What should be the credit arrangements for the sale of wool? These are some of the matters which the Corporation members will have to look at and are the subjects on which the Corporation will be expected to provide detailed answers in its report to this Parliament. 
Going back to what I said earlier, in view of the time that will elapse before assent is given to this Bill and the Corporation members are appointed; in view of the time lapse between their appointment and their taking up their respective positions; the time needed for the amalgamation of the Wool Board and the Wool Commission; the operation of the remainder of the wool sales and the flexible reserve price scheme; the investigation of those matters I have mentioned; the production of a report and its presentation to the Minister, to the Australian Wool 
Industry Conference and finally to this Parliament; it would be asking too much of the Corporation to finalise its report within 6 months. I believe that it would not have time to produce the kind of report that the industry wants. All these matters have to evolve gradually. As I said when replying to the second reading debate, for the first time in its history the industry is in a position where it can see some stability in the future. If the Parliament allows the Corporation's inquiries to develop naturally after its establishment, the Corporation will be able to work towards the situation that we all want and will have an acquisition scheme in operation. Therefore, I must oppose this amendment. 
I say to  Senator Milliner  that it is just as well that I am a patient man. I say to  Senator Wilkinson,  who is leading the debate for the Opposition, that I think he has put a pretty fair case. I think he and I are on very similar ground, up to one point, and that is on the report having to be presented within 6 months.  Senator Milliner  talked about Parliament being bypassed. I say to  Senator Wilkinson  and  Senator Milliner  that when the Act is proclaimed the Australian Wool Board and the Australian Wool Commission will be wound up. A report will be presented to Parliament by each organisation for this financial year up to the date on which those 2 organisations are wound up. Each financial year these organisations have presented reports to Parliament. The reports will be for that part of the financial year from 1st July to the date on which they cease operating and will give an outline of their operations. A report will be presented after the end of the financial year by the Australian Wool Corporation outlining its operations from the time it commences operations until the end of the financial year. That report will be presented in a similar manner to reports which have been presented previously by the Australian Wool Board and the Australian Wool Commission. 
How is Parliament being bypassed? There are only 8 months, at the outside, in the remainder of the financial year, and the Corporation will be presenting a report on its activities in the 7 or 8 months, depending on when the Act is proclaimed and when the Corporation begins to operate. So Parliament will be getting a report in about 6 months time. It will not be a final report on an acquisition scheme, but it will be a report on the operations of the Corporation in the remainder of this financial year. No doubt the Corporation will say what it has done during that time. I think we have met the situation by pro viding for that report to be presented. I agree with  Senator Wilkinson  that there is no further need to discuss the amendment. I think the Government, the Democratic Labor Party and the Opposition know where they stand. I suggest that we move to a vote on the amendment. 
I say in reply to  Senator Primmer  that if what he says is a fact I think we should have more Federal elections or that the wool growers would be glad to see more Federal elections. This amendment moved by the Australian Labor Party is consequential to the amendment with which we have just previously dealt. 
It is in my book. As  Senator Little  says, under clause 38(l.)(o) the Corporation has all sorts of powers to investigate, and make recommendations in regard to other matters. 
I will come to this. In my second reading speech I tried to make it clear that under the Constitution the Commonwealth alone cannot legislate for compulsory acquisition of the wool clip. To grant the Corporation the power compulsorily to acquire the wool clip we would need the consent and complementary legislation of the States. If the word 'acquisition' were written into this clause 40, what would it mean? 
It would not mean anything because under clause 38 (1.) (o) the Corporation can already investigate and recommend an acquisition scheme. I hope that it will do so. Then it takes that recommendation to the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  and at the same time to the Australian Wool Industry Conference. The Australian Wool Industry Conference will examine it and if it is acceptable to the Conference it will then indicate this to the Minister. The Minister will then put the plan before the Australian Agricultural Council where the Minister for Primary Industry and all the State Ministers for agriculture will examine it. If it is acceptable to them the Commonwealth will draw up legislation and the States will by that time, through their respective Ministers, promise complementary legislation. That is how there would be an acquisition scheme. 
But if the word 'acquisition' were written into this clause it would be ineffective because the Commonwealth just has not got the power to acquire. So it would be meaningless. It could give an indication to the Corporation. But 1 am sure that those members who are appointed to it will read very carefully the debates both in another place and in the Senate and study what members of Parliament have had to say. They should then obtain a clear indication that an acquisition scheme is required. I must come back to what was said in the second reading speech. It is that under the Constitution the Commonwealth does not have the power to acquire the clip compulsorily unless it has the consent and complementary legislation of the States. 
Question put - 
That the words proposed to be added  (Senator Wilkinson's amendment)  be added. 
 Under clause 89 it is possible for a member of Parliament-- 
They would not be members of Parliament. It is possible for a member of Parliament to be appointed to the Corporation, but it is unlikely. A similar clause is in the Australian Wool Commission Act and the Australian Wool Board Act and, as honourable senators know, this Bill provides for the amalgamation of those 2 bodies into the Australian Wool Corporation. A clause similar to clause 89 is in all legislation applying to statutory bodies, so there is nothing unusual about it. 
If  Senator McLaren  thinks that I have damaged him in any way, I apologise to him. All I am concerned about is the fact that a large proportion of the industry is asking for the implementation of an acquisition scheme as soon as possible. The Government believes that, it having set up the Corporation, this scheme can evolve.I think the industry would be very sceptical of this Government holding up the appointment of the members of the Corporation, which would mean holding up the examination of a marketing plan.I think that we, as a government and as a Parliament, would be criticised for doing such a thing. That is the part of the honourable senator's comments to which I objected. 
Remainder of Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
I thank honourable senators for their contributions. There is no doubt from the debate that there is very serious worry about what is happening in the fruit industry, and it is only right that concern should be expressed. Just to take a brief glance at the situation, the supply and demand for fruit in 1971-72 resulted in the production of some 203,900 tons of peaches and pears. Of this quantity something like 159,300 tons were packed during  the  1971-72 season. Allowing for the carry over from 1970-71, it is estimated that the sales of this fruit will be about 133,500 tons and that there will be 108,300 tons carried over into 1972. These figures show  that  there  is a  crisis because the carry over  of  stocks was slightly more than half the production in the season just passed. 
It has been rather interesting to listen to  the  debate  and  hear honourable senators say  that  it is  the  Government's fault that this  is  happening,  Senator Primmer  said that he  did  not know how to overcome the problem but  thai  what the Government is trying to  do is  no good whatsoever. I remind  the  Senate that in my second reading speechI mentioned the fact that the measures proposed in this Bill had been evolved partly from recommendations  made  in November 1971 by the Australian Apple and Pear Board. The Board has a  vital  interest in the industry. It comprises representatives  of  most sections of the  Industry.  Surely it would have good advice  to  give to the Government, and it as been  the  Government's policy over many years  to  listen to  the  advice of the industry. I think the Government has a very good record for taking notice of advice offered by the industry. The Government also had recommendations in January 1972 from  the  Canned Deciduous Fruits Industry Advisory Committee which is made up of  all  sections of the industry - packers, manufacturers, producers, and so on - that  a  tree removal scheme as a means of dealing with the over supply problem in the canned peaches and pears section of the horticultural industry be implemented. 
Not only were those recommendations made by 2 federal bodies; there were also  a  number of meetings attended by representatives from the Commonwealth and the States and, whenever appropriate, industry representatives. Those meetings were held during the first half of this year  to  consider the proposals made by the industry bodies. One element was common  to  both proposals - an across the board compensation scheme for the removal  of  surplus fruit trees. The industry claimed that this would provide a long term solution to the over supply problem. The industry representatives believed that the main beneficiaries would be fruit growers whose trees had not been removed and who would remain in a viable industry. Yet the compensation assistance would enable those wishing to leave the industry to do so with a reasonable prospect of establishing themselves again without leaving neglected orchards, unsatisfied creditors, and with insurmountable debts and burdens around their necks. 
This was an effort by the industry to put to the Commonwealth Government what it thought should be done. The Commonwealth's view was that the Commonwealth, the States and the industry should provide a proportion of the necessary funds to implement such a scheme. At a meeting of State and Commonwealth Ministers to consider a tree pull compensation scheme, it became apparent that neither the industry nor the States were prepared to make a contribution to the funds at more than a nominal level. The Commonwealth, having obtained this information, decided to reexamine its position. It then made an offer to the States on a broader base - a fruit growing reconstruction scheme which would be an extension of the existing reconstruction scheme. 
I remind the Senate that under the reconstruction scheme as we know it at present, the Commonwealth made $100m available to the States over a period of 4 years. It told the States that it would review the situation and that review was made recently in Sydney. The Commonwealth Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  and the. State Ministers for Agriculture met. The States said that they wanted more money and the Commonwealth said that instead of making $100m available to them over a period of 4 years, it would make it available over a period of 2 years and, in addition, would provide a further$1 8m. Therefore under the reconstruction scheme the States have received $1 18m to spend over 2 years, and that money is available, to the people with whom we are dealing. Now the Commonwealth is making additional money available to the States to help people who cannot get money under the reconstruction scheme. 
Surely the Commonwealth should get some reward for that effort to assist this industry. The basis of the scheme is to assist fruit growers either to reconstruct their farms or to leave the industry. Reconstruction is dealt with in paragraph 1.3(b) of the. Schedule, and leaving the industry is dealt with in paragraph 1.3 (a). As I have already pointed out, this is additional assistance. This scheme will be operated not by the Commonwealth, as some honourable senators have said, but by State organisations or authorities appointed by the States. 
This scheme is just starting after protracted discussion between the Commonwealth, the States and the industry to get it started. The Commonwealth has promised a review of the situation after the. scheme gets into operation so that everyone will know what they are talking about because they will have had some experience of the scheme, by that time. The Commonwealth has told the States that this review is to be held not later than February. 
I believe that it is too late to go back now. It is too late to amend this Hill because it would have to go back to the States and to the industry for reconsideration. It is too late because if there are to be protracted discussions again this harvest will be over before the legislation can be brought in. Therefore it will be no assistance to the people whom we are trying to help. This Bill is an attempt to bring production into line with the available economic markets. I have heard Opposition senators ask why we do not go out and look for markets; why we do not sell here, and why we do not sell there. Let us consider the situation. Two of our largest markets have been in the United Kingdom and Germany. Those 2 markets are under threat because the United Kingdom is going into the European Economic Community. They are also under threat from South Africa which has an advantage over Australia because of its cheaper labour costs. South Africa has an advantage over Australia in respect of lower freight rates. It derives benefit from a much more efficient and much more flexible shipping service to transport its goods to its markets. We must consider the entry of Argentina into world markets. Australia has considered Argentina in the past on the basis that it has been required to sell under a quota on the British market. I understand that it will not continue to be subjected to that restriction.  Senator O'Byrne  said that because of the way in which the fruit growing industry was going we could see drastic reductions in production with levels reduced to 70 per cent of current production in 1973 and to 50 per cent of current production in 1974. The honourable senator suggested that we should look for further markets. I do not know whether he named Japan. 
The Japanese market has been the subject of strong representations with a view to exporting fruit to Japan. I do not know whether honourable senators realise that Japan already is a major fruit producer. It produces approximately 80 million bushels of apples each year. The further problem that confronts us is that Japan is free of the codling moth and the fruit fly. Japan will not accept fruit unless a guarantee is given that it comes from a country free of those 2 pests. That is a problem that we face. 
There are other Asian markets at which we might look and in respect of which strong representations have been made over the years. They again have similar prohibitions which would be exercised in respect of the importation of Australian fruit. If the problem is not related to insect pests, it may be concerned with foreign exchange. The task of setting out to sell our products on new markets is not as easy as one may think. But I remind the Senate that representations are made by the Government and the industry all the time in an endeavour to make further sales of fruit products. 

 Senator Primmer said that we should try to sell our fruit in Russia. Many efforts have been made to trade with eastern Russia but here again we face obstacles. Russia wishes to barter products that we do not want. It has offered prices which are far too low even to meet the cost of freighting the fruit to the USSR. Surely honourable senators opposite would not ask producers to accept that type of situation. The last point that I wish to make is in respect of the reference made by  Senator Little  to the assistance that has been given to the wheat industry and the wool industry. He mentioned an amount of $60m. Considerable assistance has been given to the fruit industry. As mentioned in the second reading speech $13. 8m has been given to the fruit industry in the way of revaluation compensation. A further $2.6m has been provided in stabilisation arrangements and $6.4m has been given in advances to assist certain canneries. This makes a total of $22.8m in direct payouts to the industry. 
SenatorLittle - The context in which I made that remark was that not the same means test was applied to those industries. That was the context in which I made the criticism. 
A means test was applied to the emergency assistance totalling $30m provided to the Wool industry. It is not true to say what the honourable senator said. 
I repeat that a large number of fruit growers are eligible under the reconstruction scheme to obtain assistance. The Government is now making available further assistance to those people who do not qualify under the reconstruction scheme. Every assistance is being given to try to do something about this situation, which is a real one. I know that from the questions I had in the course of the last fruit season, from honourable senators representing various States particularly with respect to the Shepparton and Leeton canneries. The problem still exists. The Government is taking further action now.  Senator Little  foreshadowed an amendment that he wishes to put before the Senate. I do not think that I should comment on that amendment. I shall not comment on the Opposition's amendments until suchtime as they are raised in the later stages. 

 Senator LITTLE (Victoria)  -  I ask for leave to move an amendment to the amendment that has been moved by  Senator O'Byrne.  I do so on the basis of an agree- ment with the Opposition to adopt this procedure. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - Order! Is leave granted? 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT - There being no objection, leave is granted. 
That the amendment be amended to read: 
At end of motion add: ', but the Senate is of the opinion 
that the Schedule should make provision for (a) applications to be accepted up to 30th June 1974, and (b) assistance to be paid for trees removed up to 31st October 1974; 
(a) that the test of eligibility should be "financial hardship" not "severe financial difficulties" as recited in 1.3(a) of the Schedule, and (b) that there should be a specification of the term "adequate resources" in monetary terms that should not be excessively low; 
that the Commonwealth approach the States with a view to a renegotiation of the Agreement to embody the principles set out herein; and 
that consideration should be given by the Government to extending eligibility for compensation to rural producers who are merely supplementing other inadequate rural income by apples and pear production but whose producttion is helping to create or aggravate the current overproduction of apples and pears.' 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Does the Senate agree to proceed to a consideration of the motion moved by  Senator Little  seeking to amend the amendment? There being no objection, we will follow that course. 
Amendment to  Senator O'Byrne's  proposed amendment agreed to. 
Question put - 
That the amendment  (Senator O'Byrne's),  as amended, be agreed to. 
-I usually answer a question on wheat but I do not think I can answer this one.I ask the honourable senator to put it on notice and to let me try to get an answer for him this afternoon. 
Pursuant to section 35 of the Wool (Deficiency Payments) Act 1971,  I  present the report on the operation of the Act during the year ended 30th June 1972. 
Ordered that the paper be printed. 
I  move: 
That  the Bill  be now read  a  second  time. 
I  ask for leave to incorporate the second reading speech in Hansard. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I seek leave for the second reading speech to be incorporated in Hansard. 
We have noted what  Senator Webster  said not only in this chamber but before the Estimates Committee. I think all the departments will note his remarks, and if they pertain to a particular department that department will take the necessary action. To  Senator Mulvihill  all I can say is that I will examine what he has said and try to get some information to him by way of letter. I believe that the matter  Senator Cavanagh  raised will need a thorough examination by the Minister for Supply  (Mr Garland)  himself. He will examine in Hansard what  Senator Cavanagh  has said and I will ask him whether, having made an examination, he will write to the honourable senator himself. 

 - Senator Cavanagh directed the remarks to me as the Minister representing the Minister for Supply. If the Minister for Supply wants to direct the honourable senator's remarks to the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  that would be his business. I recall  Senator McLaren's  remarks not only in the Committee but in this chamber recently when we were debating the States Grants (War Service Land Settlement) Bill.  His  remarks on that Bill will be examined as well as what he has said here now. Again I will convey the results of the Minister's examination to him by way of letter. 
Proposed expenditures and proposed provisions agreed to. 
Remainder of Bill - by leave - taken as a whole, and agreed to. 
Bill reported without requests; report adopted. 
Certain repatriation benefits are available to men returning from Vietnam. The honourable senator has asked me whether I am aware of a particular case. I am not, but I have seen a report of it.I would have to seek the details from the Minister for Repatriation. Although the newspaper report gives the name of the lad concerned I would have to go through the files to get some information for the honourable senator. 
As the honourable senator knows, a Nomad aircraft attended the Farnborough air display. A second Nomad is now in France on tour where it will be seen by people who are likely to be interested in buying this aircraft. We are hoping that they will place orders for it in the future. I have an inkling that someone asked me a similar question the other day. I asked that it be put on the notice paper and I do not think it has yet been answered. As far as I know, no firm orders have been received by the Department of Supply for the Nomad. 1 am hoping that orders will come, not only from military people but also from people engaged in civil aviation. 
On 12th October 1972  Senator Gietzelt  asked me a question regarding the involvement of Royal Australian Air Force personnel in the refurbishing of DC3 aircraft purchased from TransAustralia Airlines by Jetair Australia Ltd subsequent to the purchase of the aircraft. I have investigated the matter, and can now inform the honourable senator that neither maintenance records nor questioning of the relevant RAAF personnel has revealed any evidence of refurbishingbeing carried out by RAAF personnel on the ex-TAA aircraft subsequent to the purchase by Jetair and prior to the purchase by the Commonwealth. 
I thank the Senate for its consideration of the Bill, particularly those honourable senators who have contributed to the debate. I am quite sure that the points that have been raised - the officers have taken note of them - will be studied carefully later on. I was disappointed at what  Senator Gietzelt  said in support of his amendment. I had looked carefully at it, and I expected to see a case of some substance put up for the withdrawal and redrafting of this Bill; but I regret that the honourable senator spent a good deal of his time referring to the actions of the Government and of the Australian Country Party in particular. He tried to paint the picture that the Parliament was being presented with a Bill which was being rushed through at the last moment and which had not received careful prior study. T draw the attention of the honourable senator to the fact that on 19th September 1 made a statement in this place on behalf of the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon),  announcing that the Government proposed to take new initiatives immediately, in co-operation with the States, towards a better balance of population distribution and regional development in Australia. 
This year. One does not make a statement just out of the blue. The making of a statement entails a good deal of prior study and compilation, and to my mind this matter has been under study for some considerable time. I do not want to canvass the ground that honourable senators have canvassed, but I do want to go on record as making certain points. First of all, I make the point that this legislation seeks to create an expert objective body capable of making balanced recommendations to the Government. That, I believe, and in view of what  Senator Byrne  has said, is a very important matter. Because of the wide area at which this National Urban and Regional Development Authority will have to look, the Government at this point does not want to place any hamstringing direction on the Authority. The Authority will have to operate in an area which comes under State governments and Commonwealth authorities. Therefore, because of this wide area, the Government believes it desirable that there should be some reserve provision for ministerial discretion. Mention was made of this during this second reading debate and it is one of the matters to which the Opposition objected. 
The main approaches to be taken in cooperation with the States will be towards the provision of assistance for regional growth centres and sub-metropolitan centres. As has already been mentioned, the sub-metropolitan centres are to be located close to the existing capital cities. The Commonwealth believes that turning its attention to centres which can be designed, planned and developed in a positive way, as has been done with Canberra and the new urban regions around Canberra, is the most direct and positive contribution that it can make. Therefore, it is the Government's decision to concentrate on providing such centres, and this decision is motivated by a sense of urgency and a desire to see practical results. It is believed that if action of this kind is not taken the populations in both Sydney and Melbourne will double by the year 2000, as  Senator Webster  pointed out. The Government will be looking to a practical solution aimed at reducing the growth rates of these 2 cities very steadily by attracting people to other centres, thus providing a better distribution of population, better environmental conditions and better conditions for the conduct of trade and industry. All these things have been mentioned already by those who have spoken in the debate. 
This Authority will be seeking to ease and minimise the problems that currently beset cities. Sydney and Melbourne will be aided by practical action to reduce their growth rates and the pressures on existing facilities and growth programmes. Again these points have been mentioned by  Senator Byrne, Senator Webster  and  Senator Jessop.  It is the Government's intention to seek discussions with the States on both ministerial and officer levels as soon as possible. The target date for the report on the 5-year programme, 30th June 1973, will necessitate extensive practical discussions by officers of the relevant departments and the new Authority, and these talks will be sought at the earliest date. The proposal for the Commonwealth administrative body has been developed over a number of months and there are a number of options available in respect of the administrative action which could be taken.  Senator Byrne  referred to some of them. It is believed that the best way to face up to this problem is to establish a statutory corporation rather than some other organ of government. The way in which the new Authority will operate, the nature of its relationship with the States and the types of recommendations it brings forward will all have a bearing on the final form of the legislation. 
The present Bill is interim in the sense that it does not try to say everything on the problems that were pointed out by honourable senators during the debate. It is not interim in the sense that it implies the setting up of an unproductive hamstrung authority. What the Government is doing is setting up an authority which can have discussions with the States, local authorities and any other bodies from which it may seek information, over as wide an area as possible, in the fist place in order to determine the lines along which it will direct its future examination. The legislation can be reviewed following the Government's consideration of the 5-year programme in June 1973. Those are some of the points which I believe are vital to a consideration of this legislation. On behalf of the Government, T cannot accept the amendment that has been moved by the Opposition. The Government believes that this Bill is urgent and must be passed so that the authority can be set up as soon as possible to carry out an examination and be in a position to make some recommendations to the Government next year before final legislation for a 5-year programme is drawn up. For those reasons, I commend the Bill to the Senate and indicate that the Government will vote against the amendment moved by the Opposition. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be left out  (Senator Gletzelt's amendment)  be left out. 

 - Mr 

President, I was asked a question yesterday and I now have an answer to it. May I give it now? 
I read the newspaper report of this matter and I made some inquiries into it. i understand that the Navy is also making inquiries into the matter. There have been reports in the past of detonators being washed up on the shore and inquiries have been made on those occasions. I am not able to say how many times this has happened before but I shall seek some information on that aspect and endeavour to provide it to  Senator Willesee  before the House rises. 
The honourable senator knows that if what he quoted to me as the words of the Prime Minister are in fact the words of the Prime Minister, the right honourable gentleman was not referring to the aspect which the honourable senator has raised. The situation of our bomber force is that only 6 of the 23 Phantoms have so far been returned to the United States. It is true that 5 more are to go on 8th of next month, but that will still leave us with a squadron of Phantoms until the arrival of the Fills next May. Those are our front line bombers. I point out to the honourable senator also that there are Canberra bombers at Amberly. 
That is all right. The Canberra bombers which took part in the Vietnam action have now returned to Amberley where they are based, and they also constitute a part of the bomber force of this country. 
Yes, 1 do, for the same reasons that I gave when replying to the second reading debate on the Wool Industry Bill last Thursday night. 1 saw the television programme to which the honourable senator referred. I grant that there is a lot of information in the Australian Wool Commission and the Australian Wool Board and that much of it would be helpful in forming an acquisition plan. As 1 said in reply to  Senator Wilkinson  last week, to date an acquisition scheme has not been spelt out in detail. It was that detailed plan for which the Minister for Primary Industry was looking and which he hoped the Australian Wool Corporation would be able to place before him. In regard to the Corporation reporting within 6 months, I made the point to  Senator Wilkinson  that the Commission and the Board must be wound up, the Corporation must be commenced and at the same time the schedule for wool sales must continue together with the conduct of a flexible reserve price scheme. All this has to be done in the next few months. Then the Corporation has to examine the situation in relation to wool marketing. Finally it has to report back to the Minister and to the industry before presenting the report to Parliament. I believed then that it was impracticable for the Corporation to do that within 6 months, and I still say so. 
At the present time the 24 Fill aircraft which Australia bought are going through a refurbishing programme. 
That shows the little knowledge that honourable senators opposite have of what, has been going on in the past in regard to these aircraft. At the present time this programme is on schedule. That being the case, it is anticipated that the aircraft will be ready for delivery in May. The first 6 aircraft are expected to be delivered at the end of May 1973 to the Amberley air base. The programme is expected to cost $U.S.344m. 
"LAKE BARRINE' 
As I said in reply to the question asked by the honourable senator last week, these aircraft are operating in an operational area. There are many more hazards when aircraft are operating over a target than there are when they are performing straightforward operations around a friendly country. No information has come to hand as to what happened to either of these aircraft. Inquiries are going on. Australia is kept fully informed of the position, and as soon as information does come to hand it will be forwarded to our Air Force officers in America who will refer it to the Departments of Air and Defence where it will be studied very carefully. I think it is very hard for anyone to say that there are technical problems with these aircraft when they are flying over hostile country and hostile targets. 
 in reply - I thank the Senate for the passage of the Bill. 1 never cease to be amazed at what  Senator Keeffe  does. He draws the long bow, if be knows what that means. Over the years I have never heard him make a speech on a subject in which he has not done this. Also, I was quite concerned about his statement to the effect: 'If the Minister does not believe me, I have the information here and I can show him'. Any Minister is very concerned at what happens within the responsibilities of his portfolio. But he cannot be expected to know exactly what is happening in every part of Australia and the islands beyond. I believe it is up to  Senator Keeffe  to go to the Minister concerned, put his case to him and say: 'This is what I have found out. I would like some information as to what you propose to do about this'. It is no good just sitting back and asking the Minister to do something about it. 
Having said that, I inform  Senator Keeffe  that the amendments proposed in this Bill will have the effect of enabling applications for assistance under the war service homes scheme to be considered under the existing provisions of the War Service Homes Act. No consequential amendments to the War Service Homes Act will be necessary. I believe that this is the part that counts: The granting of a war service loan to those ex-servicemen will be dependent on their applications for assistance meeting the requirements that apply to all applicants for assistance under the Act. These include evidence of qualifying war service, the provision of minimum deposit required by the Act, the Department of Housing being satisfied that the applicant has a reasonable prospect to meet the terms and conditions on which the loan is provided and that the property the subject of an application will provide a suitable security for an advance. 
The honourable senator made out a case for Torres Strait Islanders. He said that he knew of a man who had served during the Second World War who was not eligible for a war service loan. I know of many people who served during the last war who are not eligible for a war service loan. The simple reason is that some of them- 
 Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson is one who is not eligible. Some of them served in the Citizen Military Forces and some in Darwin but not during the qualifying period. I understand that the Torres Strait Islanders were part of a light infantry regiment that was raised in that area on the same basis as the CMF. The main requirement for the granting of a war service loan is that a member of the Services must have served overseas. Perhaps the man about whom  Senator Keeffe  is talking served in the light infantry forces but not in the qualifying period. He may not have seen service overseas. I do not know whether this is correct until the honourable senator gives me the background of the case so that we can have a look at it. But it is not right for the honourable senator to rise in the Senate and say that he knows of the case of one man. All honourable senators know of any number of men who served during the 1939-45 war who are not eligible for a war service loan. When we look into their cases we find the reasons why they are not eligible. That is why I said when I opened my remarks that the honourable senator was stretching the long bow. I am winding up the debate so he will not be able to reply to what I say. 
I am not going to but the  President  might.  Senator Mulvihill  supported  Senator Keeffe  on a particular point which he made. I do not have any background information in relation to that matter. Apparently the honourable senator has spoken to the  Chairman  of the Committee so I think it is a matter between the 2 members of the Senate and the  Chairman  of the Committee. If any assistance is needed afterwards, the honourable senators can go to the Minister concerned with this matter. I am sure that he will give sympathetic consideration to it and take whatever action his powers enable him to take. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 

 Senator KEEFFE (Queensland) -  Mr President,  before the vote is taken I wish to make a personal explanation. 
 Senator Keeffe  frightens me. I say to the honourable senator that I did not reply to his question because he asked me about the availability of the land and the area of the land, and that does not come under the control of the Commonwealth. lt comes under the control of the State Government. Therefore, I cannot give him an answer to that question at the present time. Then he referred to the Commonwealth Office of Aboriginal Affairs. That has nothing to do with the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation. I shall have to seek an answer for him in relation to that matter. All 1 can say is that every time an honourabe senator makes a contribution in this place, the relevant Minister and the officers who are with him at the time of the debate study the Hansard record, pick up the points that need to be answered and generally they are answered. I shall certainly ask the officers who are with me tonight to give me some information so that I can write to the honourable senator and try to provide him with the information which he seeks. 

 Senator Keeffe also asked about the areas in which people had to serve in order to qualify for a war service home. I told him when I replied to the second reading debate that one of the first requirements of an applicant is that he had to serve overseas. If this Torres Strait Islander did not serve away from his area, if he was a member of the Torres Strait Islands infantry, which is the equivalent of the Citizen Military Forces, then he is not entitled to a war service home. I have already given that answer to the honourable senator and I cannot take it any further. I have noted the points as the honourable senator made them. Two concern the Queensland Government, one concerns the Office of Aboriginal Affairs and one concerns the War Service Homes Act. I have given the hon,ourable senator an answer in regard to the War Services Homes Act. I cannot give him an answer in regard to the other 3 questions. 
I do not rise to endorse  Senator Murphy's  last remarks; I rise to support my Leader's best wishes to you,  Mr President,  and also to extend our thanks to you for the job that you have done, to  Mr Odgers  and the staff of the Senate and to all those who have assisted honourable senators in any way during the past session and the past year. I should like to extend the thanks of my colleagues on the Country Party benches, together with my own, to all those people. 1 personally thank the members of the Government Parties, the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  and his colleagues, the Leader of the Australian Democratic Labor Party  (Senator Gair)  and his colleagues, and my 3 independent colleagues for the assistance which they gave me during the period when I was Acting Leader of the Government in this place. One does not realise the onerous tasks that befall the Leader of either the Government or the Opposition in this place until one has to shoulder those burdens. Then one very quickly recognises the resonsibilities involved. But no-one can carry out the duties of any position unless one has the assistance of the Senate itself, of the 
Leader of the Opposition and of the Leader of the DLP, and then the assistance of the  Clerk  and the staff of the Senate. I believe that 1 received that assistance during the period when I was Acting Leader of the Government in the Senate. I am very grateful to all those who assisted me. I enjoyed the experience very much and it was made all the more enjoyable by the assistance which I received. To all of you I express, on behalf of myself and my Country Party colleagues, very best wishes for a Merry Christmas. 
-BROCKMAN - On 17th August 1972,  Senator Laucke  asked me a question without notice concerning salary statistics. The Acting Treasurer has now provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
While the available statistics do not allow an exact answer to the honourable senator's question, a reasonable indication can be obtained from the Commonwealth Statistician's May 1971 Survey of Weekly, Earnings (size distribution) if the assumptions set out below are made. It should be noted that the survey related only to full-time adult male employees and related only to weekly earnings in the particular pay-period in which the survey was conducted. A copy of the bulletin relating to this survey has been provided to the honourable senator. 
As the highest category of non-managerial employees' earnings was only, $120 per week (i.e. an annual rate of $6,260) and over, it is necessary to assume that all employees earning at a rate of around $15,000 a year were 'managerial, executive, professional and higher supervisory staff'. 
On the above basis, the survey results show that about 4,800 (or 0.3 per cent) of all full-time adult male private employees represented earned $300 or more in the survey week (equivalent to approximately $15,640 or more per annum), while about 1,500 (or 0.2 per cent) of all full-time adult male government employees were in this earnings group. For those earning $280 or more in the survey week (i.e. equivalent to approximately $14,600 or more per annum), the comparable figures were about 7,100 (or 0.5 per cent) fulltime adult males in the private sector and about 3,100 (or 0.4 per cent) in the government sector. 
In the Explanatory Notes to the bulletin it is pointed out that 'As the private sector and local government sector of the survey were surveyed by means of samples, the estimates ... are subject to sampling variability, that is, variations which occur by chance because only samples of employers were surveyed'. Paragraph 16 of those notes shows the approximate standard errors relating to the private sector. Commonwealth and State government departments, government authorities and semi-government bodies were surveyed in full. 
 I  give notice of the following motion: 
Contingent on the  President  proceeding to the Placing of Business on any day, I shall move - That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent  Senator Drake-Brockman  moving a motion relating to the order of business on the notice paper. 
 Mr President,  I seek leave to make a statement regarding leadership of the Australian Country Party. 
I should like to associate the Country Party representatives in this place with the tributes which have been paid by both the Leader of the Government  (Senator Murphy)  and the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers).  While I knew personally all 4 men to whom they have paid tribute, I did not have the opportunity of working very closely with them because they all served in another place. However, I agree that any man who represents his electorate or his State in Parliament must have proved to his electors that he is hard working and prepared to represent them. I should like to take the opportunity of paying a special tribute to Tom Burke, a West Australian, who, I believe, was a great Labor man. He was certainly a great representative for the seat of Perth in the Parliament, and I believe he earned himself a great reputation in Western Australia by working for the slow learner group in that State.  Mr President,  I should like to associate myself and my Party with the tributes that have been paid and to offer our sympathy to the wives and families concerned. 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting 1 shall move: 
That the Labor Government's decision to revalue upwards the Australian dollar in comparison with the currency of nations with which it trades is to be deplored as it means a significant direct financial loss to Australian exporters; will prejudice future sales to overseas markets; will seriously affect the viability of Australia's export producers and will adversely restrict future Australian development 
(Western 
Australia)  -  I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That the Government's decision to withdraw penal provisions now contained in the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act as affecting employees is contrary to the interests of peace in industry and that the Labor Government's proposal to retain penal provisions to apply to employers is objectionable as it demonstrates partiality and shows clearly the intentions of the ALP towards those who provide job opportunities in the community. 
I ask the 
Minister assisting the Minister for Defence: In the light of the changes made by the Government in ministerial authority, who is the approving authority for VIP aircraft and what changes, if any, have been made to the rules, as set out in Senate Hansard of 30th September 1972, which are to be applied before approval is given for the use of VIP aircraft? 
I indicate that  Senator Webster  has been standing but probably not on every occasion. I address another question to the Minister assisting the Minister for Defence. Earlier this afternoon I asked him about the changes that had been made in the guidelines applying to VIP flights. The Minister replied that very little change had been made to the rules laid down by me on 30th September 1970. 1 am interested in the very little change that has been made, and I ask the Minister to pinpoint the particular areas in which a change has been made. I ask the Minister to go further and bring up to date the statement that I made on 30th September 1970 so that we can all have a look at these guidelines for approval. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister assisting the Minister for Defence, follows the question asked yesterday by  Senator Brown  in respect of which the Minister said he would seek some information, ls it the Government's continuous intention to provide Australia with a balanced and strong defence? ls air power considered an essential part of this defence role? ls it a fact that in order to achieve full effectiveness the Air Force must have an effective strike power? Does the FI 1 1 achieve this? 
I ask the Minister for Primary Industry whether the Government has agreed to provide $750,000 to the egg industry? Is the assistance subject to the proviso that the governments of the mainland States agree to legislate to control egg production? Will the Minister inform the Senate of the present position in each State regarding the introduction of such legislation? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry. I refer to the Minister's statements regarding revaluation. I ask: Is it a fact that what the Government is saying to primary industry is that where an industry was in trouble with adjustments before revaluation and where these troubles have been increased by revaluation, that industry can apply to the Government for help in carrying out those adjustments? If this is correct, does this mean that apart from fruit, no industry has any chance of qualifying for assistance? If this is the case, will the Minister say honestly that no other primary industry can qualify for exchange compensation? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Primary Industry. In view of the rather general answer which the Minister gave to my specific questions, will the Minister now admit that the 1967 revaluation was a very much more serious cost to export industries than the minor adjustments which occurred in 1971? Was not the so-called new policy of 1971 justified by the minor nature of the adjustments? Does the Minister claim that the latest exchange adjustment of 7 per cent can be called minor? 
In directing my question 'to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence," I refer to a defence statement issued in July last year regarding the purchase of a basic trainer aircraft. Did that statement say that before' a contract could be signed with a New .'Zealand' company . a definitive 'specification- for the aircraft had to be agreed to? Did it also' say that a number of changes ' were required by the Royal Australian Air Force which needed to be satisfactorily proven in the existing prototype aircraft? Can the Minister inform the Senate whether these requirements have now been met? If not, can he state the present position? Can he say when signing is anticipated or when the contract for these aircraft was signed? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Primary Industry. Has the Minister read the remarks attributed to  Mr Nettlebeck  the manager of the Federal Wine and Brandy Producers Council, in today's 'Canberra Times'? In view of the increased costs to the wine industry as detailed by  Mr Nettlebeck,  will the Minister inform the Senate what is the present position in regard to the examination being carried out by 3 sub-committees of the Commonwealth Grape Advisory Committee established to report on the problems facing the grape growing industry and the action desirable to meet these problems? Has this examination been completed and when will their reports be made public? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry, follows the answer that he gave to  Senator Poyser  about the appointment by the previous Government of members of the Australian Wool Corporation. Will the Minister say which member of the Corporation he would not have appointed? In view of the urgency to report upon an acquisition scheme, as indicated in Australian Labor Party amendments which were moved to the previous Government's wool Bills, is his present attitude inconsistent with Labor priorities before the election? 
Did the 
Minister for the Media ask United States film distributors to help with the expansion of the Australian film industry? To which specific authority has the Minister directed his request? Have the negotiations been of a preliminary nature, or has a detailed request been forwarded to the American organisations Concerned? 
I ask the Minister for Customs and Excise whether he was one of those who attended the Melbourne Conference of Commonwealth and State Environment and Conservation Ministers. If not, is he aware that Western Australia already has strictly policed kangaroo control measures which adequately ensure that the species will not become extinct? Will he agree that, because of that State's geographical situation and the menace of kangaroos to agriculture, such a system of control warrants special consideration by the Commonwealth? Is he aware that the lifting of the export ban is of extreme importance to Western Australia? 
1 address a question to the Minister assisting the Minister for Defence. I refer to an answer he gave earlier this afternoon in which he expounded Government policy in regard to the manufacture in Australia of aircraft that may be possible replacements for the Mirage aircraft. I ask: Is that a departure from the policy espoused in the past by the Department of Supply? If so, what part of that policy is new? Does that mean that the aircraft selected, irrespective of performance, will be the aircraft which has the greatest Australian content? 
I ask the Minister for Primary Industry: What action, if any, does he intend taking to ensure that the retail price of wine reflects the removal of excise on wine? Does he intend to take any action which will ensure that price levels which were applicable before the excise on wine was imposed are maintained? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry. What action does the Government propose to take to assist the River Murray co-operatives to market wine and what stimulus does the Minister intend to give to the industry to assist it with market development overseas to offset the adverse effects of British entry into the European Economic Community and revaluation of the Australian dollar? 
My question is directed to the Minister assisting the Minister for Defence. I ask: What assurance can the people of Australia have that the Government will provide them with a balanced and strong defence? Can he inform the Senate whether an essential part of this defence will be the use of Fill aircraft as a strike force? 
 Mr Acting Deputy President, Senator Gair  used the procedures of this House yesterday to give notice that he would move today a certain motion. This action is open to any senator and particularly to the Leader of a Party in the Senate. Yet immediately  Senator Gair  did this, the Leader of the Government  (Senator Murphy)  rose in his place and said that this motion should not be proceeded with, that no notice had been given to him as Leader of the Government or to those who sit behind him, so that they could make an investigation into the matter and compile some information with which they could meet the points put forward by  Senator Gair. 
The Leader of the Government then talked about important legislation which this Parliament must pass. For a long time I sat on the other side of the House and saw  Senator Murphy  walk into this place and with less than 2 hours notice say that he had a matter of importance which the Government had to deal with. But he had never given the Government one scrap of information before coming into this place that he was going to do so. Nor did he pay any regard to any legislation which the Government of that time had before it. If the Leader of the Opposition at that time believed he had an important matter which the Senate ought to deal with he used the procedures of this House and raised that matter immediately irrespective of the program the Government had in hand. Today  Senator Murphy  is Leader of the Government with a program of legislation to get through the House yet, according to him, noone on this side should be allowed to raise a matter of public importance - because he has not had time to discuss it or because he has a legislative program which he must get through as quickly as possible. I agree with the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers)  that this is absolute nonsense. Surely we on this side of the House, and particularly the Leaders of parties on this side of the House, can be given time to raise matters which we believe are important. It is for this reason that we in the Australian Country Party support  Senator Gair  in his efforts to raise this matter today. 
I agree with the proposal. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence and refer to a statement made last evening by the Minister for Defence announcing the Government's acceptance of the Fill aircraft, a statement in which he pointed the finger at the former Minister for Defence. Does the reference to cost in that statement refer to the project cost or the cost of the aircraft? Is there a basic cost for this aircraft? Is the increased cost referred to due to the escalation in the cost of labour and materials over the period of production of the aircraft, plus the incorporation into it of safety aspects and modifications? 
As a result of the raid by the Attorney-General on the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation headquarters in Melbourne, can he say whether the only documents seized were concerned with the Croatian terrorist organisations? If other documents were seized, with what were they concerned? 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General who will recall that in answering an earlier question by  Senator Greenwood  he said that all information was available to the honourable senator. I ask the Attorney-General: Why then the raid on the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation's headquarters in Melbourne and the elaborate precaution of sealing the files? 
 I wish to associate the members of the Australian Country Party with the tributes that have been paid by previous speakers to  Senator Wood  for his 20 years service on the Regulations and Ordinances Committee. I cannot go back as far as  Senator Byrne  - to 1952  -  but I can go back to 1958 when, as a new member of this Parliament, I together with the  Deputy  Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Willesee),  was a member of the Committee. I well recall the assistance, encouragement and advice I received at that time from the  Chairman  of the Committee,  Senator Wood. Senator Webster,  who served on the Committee for 3 years, and  Senator Lawrie,  who served on it for 6 years, join me in paying this tribute to  Senator Wood  and in wishing ' him well in the years to come.  Mr Deputy President,  I think you also served on the Committee. I couple your name with the remarks I have expressed in appreciation of the service performed by  Senator Wood. 
I direct a question to the Attorney-General. If neither the Director-General nor the Regional Director of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation refused to give the AttorneyGeneral all the relevant information in regard to the Croat terrorist situation, is he saying now in his answer to  Senator Greenwood  that this information was refused him and that this led him to take the extraordinary action that he took in going to Melbourne? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for the Environment and Conservation. Is he aware that the Minister for Country Water Supplies in Western Australia has stated that he has not received from the Commonwealth Government a reply to his request for further Commonwealth finance in extending the Comprehensive Water Supply Scheme in that State? Can the Minister inform the Senate whether such a request has been received by the Commonwealth? Has a reply been forwarded to the Western Australian Government? If not, why not? When can a reply be expected? 
Does the Minister representing the Minister for Defence recall a statement made by the present Minister for Defence last October in which he talked about the Royal Australian Air Force having what he chose to call a pretty good run in the purchase of top drawer and top price aircraft from the United States of America? Is this statement to be taken as an indication of future policy in the defence departments? If so, can he tell the Senate what consideration has been given by the Government to obtaining a replacement aircraft for the Neptune maritime aircraft? Will the Government be looking for an Australian designed and manufactured aircraft, or will it be looking for a foreign aircraft that is partly manufactured in Australia? 
I want to take a few minutes to make some remarks on this Bill. Firstly, we in the Australian Country Party believe it is necessary that the salaries and allowances paid to parliamentarians and to the other people mentioned in the Bill should be reviewed. As has already been pointed out in the second reading speech, there has not been a review since 1968. Because of adjustments in the cost of living since that time and because of the increased responsibilities that have been placed on members of the national Parliament, I believe that the increased salaries and allowances should be paid to enable every member of the national Parliament to carry out his responsibilities in an efficient and proper manner. 
We in the Country Party raise some queries regarding this Bill. Firstly, as a group of people who represent country areas we have always believed in the principle that people who live in country areas throughout the length and breadth of Australia have rights in this national Parliament equal to those of their city cousins. We, as a Party which essentially represents people in country areas, believe that we should have rights equal to those of other members of this Parliament. 
What I am saying is that we should be given status in this national Parliament equal to that of members of other parties. Over the years the Country Party has had a strength of approximately 20 members in the House of Representatives and from 5 to 7 members in the Senate. When in government we have played an important part in carrying out government responsibilities. Since 5th December last we have joined the Opposition parties, and I believe that in both Houses of the Parliament we have played an important part in Opposition. 
I believe that as the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  has behind him 20 members in the House of Representatives and 5 members in the Senate, he is entitled to a status in this Parliament. Because of the responsibility borne by him and by his party, I believe that his status should be at least equivalent to that of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition in the other place,  Mr Lynch.  I am not just saying something in order to try to lift the status of the Leader of the Country Party in the situation which is presently developing. This man, until recently, as the Leader of the Australian Country Party was the  Deputy  Prime Minister of Australia. 
But if that is not sufficient let me refer back to 1947 when the Labor Government was in office. At that time a Bill for an Act to amend the Parliamentary Allowances Act was introduced by the Labor Government. Clause 2 (1.) of that Bill stated: 
After section seven of the Parliamentary Allowances Act 1920-1938, as amended by the Parliamentary Allowances Act 1947, the following section is inserted: 7a. In addition to any other allowance payable under this Act, an allowance at the rate of Four hundred pounds a year shall be payable to the Leader in the House of Representatives (not being the Leader of the Opposition) of a recognized political party not less than ten members of which are members of the House of Representatives and of which no member is a Minister of State. 
So even then the Labor Government provided for the Leader of the Australian Country Party in the other place. It is interesting to note that at that time an allowance of £400, equivalent to $800 today, was paid to the Leader of the Australian Country Party and an allowance of £600, which is $1,200 today, was paid to the Leader of the Opposition. The Deputy Leader of the Opposition at that time received no allowance. Therefore, the status was established then. All we say is that the status of the Leader of the Country Party should be equal to the status of the Deputy Leader of the Opposition in the other place. 
We  are  not  saying that  the  Leader of the Country Party should receive more than the Deputy Leader of the Opposition receives.  We are not  saying that  the  Deputy Leader of the Opposition should get no allowance. We are saying that the status of the Leader of the Country Party should be raised to the status of the Deputy Leader of the Opposition in the other place. To maintain the status. I move: 
At end of motion add -  but the Senate is of the opinion that the salary and allowances of the Leader of the Australian Country Party in the House of Representatives should be identical with those of the Deputy Leader of the Opposition. 
I have endeavoured to show the Senate what happened in 1947. I turn now to what happened when this Government came into office after the resignation of the former Prime Minister on 5th December last. 
That is so. At that time a question about the status of the Leader of the Country Party was raised. The Leader took the opportunity of writing to the Prime Minister asking where he stood on this matter. On Sth February the Prime Minister replied to the Leader of the Country Party. The Prime Minister replied: 
I am writing about the salaries and allowances of office holders under the Parliamentary Allowances Act 1952-1970. 
As from 5th December when your Government resigned, your position became that of the leader of the third party in the House of Representatives and under the Parliamentary Allowances Act 1952-1970 you are entitled, in addition to your salary and allowance as a member of Parliament, to a salary of $2,500 per annum and an allowance of $750 per annum. In the expectation, however, that the Act will be amended to take account of changed circumstances, I have authorised the same payments to you as to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition - an additional salary of $5,000 per annum and allowance of $1,500 - as from 5th December. 
The Prime Minister gave to the Leader of the Country Party the same status that was given to the Leader of the Country Party in 1947. Under this Bill the the additional salary of Deputy Leader of the Opposition in the other place rises from $5,000 per annum to $7,500 per annum. The additional salary of the Leader of the Country Party remains at the $5,000 that the Prime Minister gave him on 5th December - a very generous gesture and a great recognition of the status of a leader of a Party in the Parliament. All we are asking for is that due recognition be given to the Leader of the Country Party. I suggest that the Senate join with me in expressing this opinion. That is all that I am asking the Senate to do. 
We will see. I want to see whether the Labor Party is with me. 
Of course they would not. I have never known the Labor Party to do anything that was fair and just. Earlier it was said by way of interjection that if I want equal status I should ask the Government to take some of the. extra salary off the Deputy Leader of the Opposition and give it to the Leader of the Country Party. Is that justice? Is that the sort of justice for which the Labor Party stands? If one union goes to the arbitration court and gets an increase in wages, is it suggested that other unions should say that they will take some of that extra and give, it to the other workers who did not get the increase? I do not think so. 
We will be supporting the Bill, but we hope that justice will be done in this place. 
I direct my question to the Attorney-General. Did he repeatedly refuse last week to disclose to the Senate the contents of the disturbing document he discovered in the Canberra regional office of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation? Did he say that to release the contents would seriously endanger Australia's security? If the document contained such top priority security material why were some of the contents disclosed in a newspaper report within hours of the Attorney-General refusing to release it in the Senate? Who leaked the information? 
The Country Party supports the Bill. I believe that the fact that this change is needed is itself evidence of a very rapid growth in exports in recent years. I think the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  will agree too that this was growth as a result of the stimulus provided by the previous Government, a Government dedicated to the task of encouraging exports. I go along with  Senator Cotton's  remark that it is interesting to look at the fast growth of business by the Export Payments Insurance Corporation and to consider whether this growth should not be even faster.  Senator Cotton  has suggested that the Bill perhaps should go a little further in expanding the amount of money made available. However, when one looks at the figures I think it can be borne out quite clearly that the export growth of this country is growing by leaps and bounds. 
I saw some figures given by a previous Minister for Trade which showed that at the end of the first year of operations EPIC had issued policies worth $22m or 1.3 per cent of Australia's total exports of $l,636m for that year. At the end of the last financial year EPIC had on issue policies worth $622m or 12.7 per cent of our total exports of $4,902m for that year. So it is obvious that EPIC is today insuring on an increasing proportion of our exports. Despite this, however, I think the Government should be making every effort to encourage exporters to make use of EPIC's facilities and to cover a growing percentage of our exports. Since the Bill was first introduced a number of improvements have been made to the Corporation's facilities. I hope that the Government will continue to look for ways of improving the facilities which the Corporation offers to exporters. My colleagues and I support the Bill. 
I direct my question to the Attorney-General. Does the Attorney-General recall the Prime Minister's offer of last Tuesday to look at the tabling of the terms and conditions of the appointment of the Director-General of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation? 1 ask the Attorney-General whether he will now follow that course so that honourable senators will be aware of the terms and conditions of the appointment? 
I ask the 
Acting Minister for Primary Industry whether he is aware, of reports that the export of Australian wool could be stopped indefinitely by a ban imposed on handling by the Federated Storemen and Packers Union, in Victoria, New South Wales and South Australia. If he is aware of these reports will he say what action the Government proposes to take to ensure that wool growers and the wool industry generally will not suffer at the hands of  a  few union agitators? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. If, as the Minister said, one of the reasons for the Storemen and Packers Union's ban on the handling of export wool is the union's concern about the possible introduction of new methods of wool handling and marketing, can he say whether the Government proposes to allow unionists to dictate the marketing methods of Australia's most important single earner of export income? 
 We are discussing a motion moved by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Murphy),  which deals with the sitting times of the Senate. The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers)  has moved an amendment to that motion. I say first of all, to the Leader of the Government that this amendment is poetic justice. I brought into the Senate today some copies of the Hansard reports containing what had been said by the Leader of the Government when he was Leader of the Opposition in regard to the sitting times of the Senate. I am very glad that the Leader of the Government has seen fit to change his motion as originally framed to read as it now does. Members of the Country Party, in particular, face the difficulty of travelling long distances to attend sittings of the Senate. Many honourable senators do. One proposal suggested that on Tuesdays honourable senators would do very little work. It was suggested also that the Senate should not sit on Thursday nights. I am very glad that the Leader of the Government is examining this question and accepts the concept contained in  Senator Withers'  amendment. 
I believe that the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition must stand. I have had an unfortunate experience as Leader of the Country Party in the Senate of what can happen when the recall of the Senate is proposed. I read in the Press a proposal that the Senate be recalled. That was as far as the matter went. No-one informed me officially that it was suggested that the Senate be recalled. That is what happened in the first instant. Next, I received a letter from the  President  which said that he would not recall the Senate because the leaders of certain parties had not written to him asking him that this should be done. On each occasion when I have seen reports in the Press of a proposal that the Senate is to be recalled, I have sought out members of my Party and asked them their views on that proposal. Any decision that I may make as Leader of my Party will be made with the confidence that honourable senators who sit behind me will support me in the view that I put forward. I see no reason why I should not support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition. 
 The Australian Country Party supports the amended motion. I believe that if we want this Committee to get going, we will have to support the amended motion. I take note of what  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson has said, but I think that the problem could be overcome by  Senator Wriedt  resigning and another senator being appointed to take his place.  Senator Wriedt  is overseas at the present time, but I am sure that we can overcome the problem. When 1 looked at the notice of motion I saw that the Committee was to consist of certain senators from the Government side, certain senators nominated by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Withers)  and one senator to be nominated by the Australian Democratic Labor Party and that there was to be no representative from the Australian Country Party, and this concerned me. 
Yes, I know, but I want to make my speech. As 1 say, there was to be no representative from the Country Party. I recognise that we are appointing the same Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange which operated previously, that  Senator Lawrie  represented the Country Party on that Committee and, from what I hear, he was a very staunch member of it. During the course of my remarks on this amended motion I want to make the point that we in the Country Party play a part in the Senate. I know that the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  is to offer me a position on another committee which we will discuss later. But where possible I should like my Party to be given representation on these important committees of the Senate. 
I will digress a little and reply to  Senator O'Byrne  who, a short time ago, said that I had remarked that Tuesday evening would be wasted if we accepted the suggested sitting times which we discussed previously. I made that remark because if honourable senators look at the number of committees of the Senate on which the Country Party is represented they will see that we are not represented on as many committees as perhaps we would like. At the beginning of the year I, together with the Leader of the Opposition and the Leader of the Australian Democratic Labor Party  (Senator Gair),  saw what the Government was offering us- and wc agreed between ourselves to take the positions on the various committees which we were allocated. But since that time further committees have been established, and I refer particularly to the Joint Committee on Prices, in respect of which we will be moving an amendment, and the Joint Committee on the Northern Territory on which probably we will be seeking a position. So I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate to consider what I have said when he is appointing committees. 
There is a rumour that  Senator Lawrie  wants to go off the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange. That is not so. When we were not offered a position on the Committee,  Senator Lawrie  said: 'I have been on the Committee for a long time. It is nearly in the position of making a report. The report will be before the Senate very shortly. We will not make a fuss about the short time that we could be off the Committee'. Now the Government has decided to reappoint the previous Committee and  Senator Lawrie  will be a member of the new Committee. He hopes to carry through to a finish the work that he did on the previous Committee. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Does the Minister recall the attacks that were constantly made by the Australian Labor Party on the previous Government about its economic policies? Does he also remember that Labor senators and members claimed repeatedly that they were genuinely concerned about the harmful effects of high inflation? Does the Minister not agree that the present Government's rate of spending - the Treasurer has estimated the Budget deficit for the first three-quarters of 1972-73 at $ 1, 685m - not only represents extreme irresponsibility but also demonstrates that Labor policies are directly contributing to the present high rate of inflation which his Government professes to deplore? 
Yesterday the Minister representing the Minister for the Environment and Conservation answered a question I had asked him on 29th March concerning extra Commonwealth funds for extending the Comprehensive Water Supply Scheme in Western Australia. I now ask him: Did the request made by the Western Australian Minister for Works and Water Supply include only the York-Greenhills and CorriginBullaring water supply scheme or did it include other schemes as well? What consideration was given to the request? Did the reply that was sent back to the Minister on 3rd April indicate that more funds would be forthcoming to Western Australia? 
I take a few minutes of the Senate's time to say that although  Senator Cotton  indicated that the Country Party fully supports this measure - we do and I thank him for saying that  -  I would like to make clear that we are joining the Opposition in supporting this Bill. We recognise that in a developing country such as Papua New Guinea the transport of goods is an essential priority and that it is of prime importance to acquire sufficient finance to construct roads. I commend the Bill and I hope that we shall see from it all those things that we believe will happen with the provision of this money. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Is the Minister aware that Australian wheat industry leaders will meet officials of the Department of Primary Industry on Monday to begin discussions on a new 5-year wheat stabilisation scheme? Is the Minister aware that the Minister for Primary Industry is reported to have announced in Paris that the Australian Government intends strictly to limit price guarantees to wheat farmers under any new wheat industry stabilisation scheme? Is the Minister aware that Liberal-Country Party coalition governments traditionally have taken decisions relating to financial assistance for primary industries only after receiving submissions from various industry leaders? Does he not agree that the Minister's reported announcement at the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development conference in Paris pre-empts any discussion that could be had on submissions forthcoming from Monday's conference? In those circumstances will the visit by industry leaders be a waste of time? 
 I will not traverse the ground that has been covered by previous speakers. We are dealing with the question of whether the Senate should be recalled to discuss a matter of urgency, and whether each individual senator should be notified by the  President  or his  deputy  or whether a telegram from the leaders of the parties should be sufficient for the recall of the Senate. During the course of the debate last Tuesday I said that, if 1 indicated on behalf of my Party that I was seeking the recall of the Senate, that should be sufficient. I recognise what  Senator Douglas  McClelland said about individuals, but I agree with the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers)  that this is an administrative matter. I know full well from past experience that if every honourable senator receives a telegram, the first thing he will do will be to try to get in touch with the Whip or the leader of his party to find out what it is all about. So not only would telegrams be sent to individual senators, but individual senators would be trying to contact their Whips or their leaders to find out what it is all about. 
I am quite sure that if I receive notice from one of the leaders of the parties in the Senate indicating that he is seeking the recall of the Senate and the reasons are given to me, I will be able to study them, talk to my Party and give the decision of our Party to the  President  in a very much shorter time than 1 believe would be possible if we accepted the proposition put forward by  Senator Douglas  McClelland. I believe that the administrative, act involved in the Government's proposition would be expensive. It is the long way round and it is unnecessary. Therefore, I will support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition. 
 For a long time now during the course of answering questions over many days and during a debate which lasted 2 whole days in this Senate we have heard  Senator Murphy  putting forward the reasons why he took the actions he did on the night of 15th-16th March. Tonight we have heard him again. 
He is all gimmick, as the honourable senators says. 
I turned it around to: 'He is all gimmick'. Like the public and the media of this country, I am still at a loss to understand what  Senator Murphy  is trying to get at. 
I have a long way to go yet,  Senator Wheeldon. Senator Murphy  commenced and ended his speech by apologising for the absence of the 3 Independent senators. 
AllI can say to  Senator Murphy  is that it is their duty to be here as it is the duty of all other honourable senators to be here on such an occasion as this. We honourable senators from Western Australia probably have the furthest to come, yet if one looks around this chamber one sees most West Australian senators here tonight. 
Despite the fact that there could be industrial problems. So I see no reason why the Independent senators to whom  Senator Murphy  referred should not be here this evening. Then  Senator Murphy  referred to the motion that was passed by the Senate last Thursday night, which was to the effect that the Senate did not have confidence in the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  because of his handling of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation matter. It is because the Senate passed that motion last week that we have put before the Senate tonight a motion which has the effect of asking for further action to be taken, because we do not have the answers. 
I know he has answered every question but the Minister has given us the information he wanted to give us and nothing more.. He even told us that he went to the ASIO offices on the Thursday night because he was informed that there was some information in those offices which was detrimental to the safety of this country and he considered it was urgent that he have that information. The Minister was questioned time and time again on this particular point but he would not go very much further than informing the Senate of what I have just mentioned. Yet the very night the Senate passed the motion of want of confidence in the Attorney-General he went on television and informed the viewers of why he went to the ASIO offices - something which he would not tell this Parliament. 
Look, I well remember when Government senators were sitting in Opposition and time and time again they moved censure motions against the Government for not making statements in the House of Representatives and in this place. The Minister asks why we do not institute proceedings in the courts if we have anything against his actions. My answer to that is that the Minister has been talking about terrorists; why does he not institute proceedings in the courts against them if he has some substantial information? 
No, in the books of honourable senators opposite we have not done anything. 
The assessments were made. What was the reaction of the then Opposition at the time of the Springboks' visit to this country? Do honourable senators opposite not think that  Senator Greenwood  and the other Ministers responsible made an assessment at that time? But what was the reaction of the Opposition at that time? It criticised  Senator Greenwood  and the other Ministers such as  Mr Hunt,  who was Minister for the Interior at that time. The Opposition both in this chamber and in the other place day after day criticised the actions taken by the Government at that time to prevent tragedies from occurring wherever the Springboks played their matches.  Senator Murphy  goes on with this sort of drivel, as I call it-- 
So was  Senator Greenwood,  but how much confidence did honourable senators opposite have in him? They had none. 
I address a question to the Attorney-General. When the Yugoslav Ambassador told the AttorneyGeneral that 3 naturalised Australians had been executed, did the Attorney-General institute any inquiries as to the conduct in Australia of the 3 persons concerned? What information has the Attorney-General to give to the Senate as to the facts discovered in relation to the 3 persons? Will the Attorney-General lay on the table of the Senate all documents and reports arising out of such inquiries? 
I rise to add my tribute to those of the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  and the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers)  as well as the many other tributes which have been made publicly throughout Australia and further afield to the late  Sir Arthur  Fadden. On behalf of the Senate members of the Party which he led for so many years with such great distinction, I express my deep appreciation of the warm and sincere expressions of sympathy made by his colleagues and political opponents. They alone speak volumes for  Sir Arthur's  popularity as a politician and as a person. 
I am the only member of the Australian Country Party presently in the Senate who served in the Parliament with  Sir Arthur.  I express my own sympathy to Lady Fadden and her family. Arthur Fadden was the type of Australian that Australians are proud to acclaim, a man who doggedly fought his way to the top yet remained always humble and good humoured. Men are fortunate indeed if they possess such a combination of qualities, but he possessed other equally fine attributes.. I refer to his extreme integrity and faith in his own ability. They were apparent throughout his distinguished career but at no time were they more manifest than during his record 11 years as Federal Treasurer and his 18 years as Leader of the Australian Country Party.  Sir Arthur  was a legend in Queensland, his home State. The Brisbane 'Courier-Mail' of 23 April said this of him in an editorial: 
He was a great fighter but never a brutal fighter. He had the respect and friendship of people of all political colours, yet he never lost the common touch. He was a simple, friendly man. 

 Mr President, I quoted those few words because none could more aptly describe his nature. This Parliament and this nation were fortunate to have had his service. - 
I ask the 
Leader of the Government in the Senate: Is it correct that the Government has announced the establishment of a Joint Select Committee on Prices? Has the membership of this Committee been announced as yet? Has the Committee met to discuss and decide its future program of inquiry? If not, why did the socalled chairman-elect of that committee indicate a policy of boycotting products whose prices were said to be unjustified? Can the Minister say whether it is the prerogative of a chairman-elect of a parliamentary committee to anticipate what will be committee policy? 
The Australian Country Party supports the motion in general. It has been agreed among senators on this side of the chamber that the Country Party shall have a member on the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. I support the plea by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Withers)  to  Senator Willesee  that the Senate accept the amendment, as it has accepted previous similar amendments. We support the proposed amendment to be moved by the Leader of the Opposition. 

 Senator WITHERS (Western AustraliaLeader of the Opposition) - I ask for leave to move an amendment. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
That the Prime Minister nominate one of the Government members of the Committee as Chairman. 
I move: 
Leave out paragraph (5), insert the following paragraph: (5) That the Committee elect as Chairman of the Committee one of the members nominated by the Prime Minister. 
At end of paragraph (3), add - with a request for the concurrence of that House in the Senate's modification of the resolution transmitted to the Senate by that House. 
This may well be said to be parliamentary nitpicking, but  I  believe that it is the way in which parliamentary committees ought to operate. 
What did the Minister for Primary Industry mean by his recent statement to the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development that there would be no further open ended guarantees to the Australian wheat industry? What did he mean by the words 'open ended' in this context? Is it not a fact that all guarantees in the past have been subject to quantity as well as price limitations? Does the Minister intend to substitute for the Australian wheat stabilisation scheme a Labor Party welfare arrangement divorced from any economic basis? 
My question is directed to the Minister assisting the Minister for Defence. Does the Minister recall having told the Senate on 14th April, in answer to a question by me, that the Government had taken some action regarding a replacement aircraft for the Mirage? I now ask him whether it is a fact that because the Government is attempting desperately to reverse its over-spending spree, consideration has been given to deferring the replacement project. Does this mean that the team from the Departments of Air and Defence which visited other countries in carrying out evaluation of possible alternative aircraft has wasted its time and effort and the taxpayers' money? 
My question is addressed to the Special Minister of State as Minister representing the Treasurer. Has the Minister seen a statement by the Executive Director of the Australian Council of Employers Federations that a general introduction of a 35-hour working week would add $3,000m to the national wages bill? Is this a reasonable estimation of the additional bill? In view of the present highly dangerous rate of inflation and the efforts being made to check price rises, will the Minister inform the Senate what steps the 
Government has taken to have the trade unions defer their demands for a 35-hour working week and what response it has received from the unions? Does the Minister agree that a costly introduction of a 35-hour working week would cause a further spiral in the cost of consumer products? 
-BROCKMAN asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Environment and Conservation, upon notice: 
Did the submission made by the Western Australian Minister for Works and Water Supply, seeking extra Commonwealth finance to extend the comprehensive water supply in that State, contain a number of requests. 
What were the various schemes put forward by Western Australia. 
What consideration was given by the Minister to the requests. 
Did the Minister indicate in his reply of 3rd April 1973 that Commonwealth financial assistance would be given to the Western Australian Government; if not, why not. 

 Senator CAVANAGH- The Minister for the Environment and Conservation has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Yes. 
The Western Australian Minister put forward proposals in his letter to reticulate water supplies to the York-Greenhills and Corrigin-Bullaring areas and also for the construction of a connecting trunk main from Wickepin to Merredin. 
and (4) The Minister for the Environment and Conservation indicated in his reply dated 3rd April 1973 to the Western Australian Minister that the whole question of provision of financial assistance by the Australian Government for water development scheme is under review. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate in his capacity as the representative in this chamber of the Prime Minister. Does he recall that on 13th March the Prime Minister told the House of Representatives that he expected Cabinet's decision on the question of long term low interest loans to farmers to be announced within a week? As that was 8 weeks ago and no announcement has yet been made, could he inform the Senate whether the Government intends to honour its promise and, if so, when? 
My question, which is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate, follows upon a question from  Senator Gietzelt  which I believe the Government went to some lengths to answer. Can he tell me when Labor Party senators last had a conscience vote in the Senate chamber? Is a conscience vote a new development within the Labor Party? I have not seen one in my term in the Senate. Is he aware that it was only a few years ago that a State Labor Party candidate whose family had given long and faithful service to the ALP had to resign from contesting a State election because he was told by his Party to toe the Party line on the matter of abortion. 
 Is it  a  fact that the Minister  For  Primary Industry has instituted arrangements whereby individual export shipments of live sheep or cattle from Western Australia are subject to his discretion as to whether approval is given  for  their release? If so, does this procedure imply a belief on his part that exports of meat on a live basis are different  in  their impact  on  meat prices in Australia from exports on a carcass basis? Are there other reasons for the Minister's action? If so, what are they? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry and follows an answer he gave mc earlier. Is it not a fact that threequarters of the stock exported live from Western Australia is destined for the Middle East which has been a very valuable market for many years and where there is no market for processed meat? Does the Minister realise that this market could be permanently lost through action now being enacted by him? 
Is the 
Leader of the Government in the Senate aware that the Western Australian Government is mounting a 3-pronged attack to fight the Federal Government's plan to take con trol of the territorial sea beyond the low water mark of the Australian coastline? Is he further aware that Tasmania is attempting to have the matter put to the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council? Does the opposition to the Bill in several States suggest that the Prime Minister, who said yesterday that he expected that only a handful of senators would oppose the Bill, is unconcerned about State rights or is totally unaware of the thinking in the States on this controversial matter? 
-My question is addressed to the Minister for Primary Industry. Has the Minister seen a report in today's Press of a United States contract to supply 19 million tons of wheat to Russia? Can he say whether, as stated in the report, the United States Government is paying a subsidy of 47.5c a bushel to grain company shippers in connection with that contract? Does the Minister know whether that subsidy will be in fact passed on to the growers? If so, does that mean that Australian wheat 'growers will have to compete for a share of the world markets against overseas growers who have the distinct advantage of government subsidisation? Does it also point up the fact that the Labor Government's proposed ne.w wheat policies will further disadvantage Australian growers? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry. Did the Minister state in reply to a question I asked of him earlier today that he had no idea what subsidies the United States of America and other countries grant to their producers? Does he not consider that the actions of overseas governments in this regard have some relevance to Australian Government decisions? Was that knowledge not essential to him in his discussions with representatives of the wheat industry? 
1 support the remarks of  Senator Withers  and  Senator Gair.  The Australian Country Party believes that the Government should devote the time that would normally have been devoted today to the debating of committee reports to Government Business, but it has seen fit to devote it to estimates committee business, and the Government has seen fit to have only one estimates committee sitting this afternoon.  Senator Douglas  McClelland said yesterday that that was designed to enable honourable senators to attend the meeting of that estimates committee. There are 6 estimates committees. Does that mean that 6 afternoons are to be set aside for the sittings of those committees? Is all that time to be lost because only one committee is to sit at any one time. Perhaps the Government will have another look at this matter and decide to have 2 or 3 estimates committees sitting at any one time. 
I believe that Government Business must be dealt with, but  Senator Murphy  would be the first to agree with me when I say that, when as Acting Leader of the Government in the Senate, I tried to obtain extended sitting hours by attempting to take away the time set aside on a Thursday night for the discussion of General Business, as  Senator Murphy  is attempting to do today, the Opposition cried out in horror about backbench senators having their privileges taken away from them. Being in that situation now we are saying the same thing. 1 support  Senator Withers  on this matter. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - Order! I think the honourable senator is seeking clarification. He should have asked for leave to do that. I was waiting for the point of order. I .find that there is no point of order. The matter which he has raised will be treated as a statement which has been made without leave. I believe that it deserves some consideration and clarification. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT  - No. I was referring to the mechanics of the procedure. I will confer with the Clerks on the matter which the honourable senator has raised. 
I think that those who have an interest in the reputation of the Senate have received tonight a very rude shock in the development that has taken place in this chamber. The contributions by  Senator Douglas  McClelland and  Senator O'Byrne  have hot done anything to add to that reputation. The functioning of this Senate is dependent on the co-operation and close working of the leaders in this place. No matter what happens in the Senate, unless the leaders can work closely together and talk to each other this Senate will not operate. In the past we saw  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson as Leader of the Government in the Senate tell the Leaders of the other parties in this House what he had in mind for the day's proceedings and even for the week's proceedings. I am aware that 

 Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson bad sat down at 9 o'clock in the morning and discussed with his Whip and with the officers of this Parliament procedures for the day and then get in touch with the Leaders of the other parties in this House. The result was that we knew what was going on. I believe that the situation we are in tonight is caused by a lack of communication between the Leaders in this place. 

 - Senator, I just want to make my speech. I heard you 2 days ago saying in this place that the Leaders should get together. You have been saying that as long as you have been Leader of the Government in this place. The honourable senator and I - and I do not want to talk about things outside this House - have only once or twice had an opportunity of talking together. That, I believe, is not good enough. I believe the Leader of the Government  (Senator Murphy)  believes that it is not good enough. I heard  Senator Douglas  McClelland talk a little while ago about the business of the Senate. The honourable senator tried to discuss what we have done today. When one looks at the notice paper one sees that the Death Penalty Abolition Bill 1973 is in committee and that the Book Bounty Bill 1973 is in committee and requires only an answer from the Minister in charge of that Bill to let it go through. 
The honourable senator by way of interjection says he cannot bring it on. We had a discussion today, today being Thursday, about the procedures of the Senate and how they were to function. Firstly, on a Thursday after the commencement of the sitting, and after question time, up to 3 hours discussion is spent on committee reports. The Leader of the Opposition in the Senate said he would forego this in the interests of Government business. This afternoon Estimates Committee A met for 4 hours. If the Leader of the Government believed that we had to get down to do Government business, why have only one committee sitting? Why was' it not put off until next week? Or why did not 3 committees sit today so that we could get on with business? Two Bills on the notice paper, No. 14 and No. 15. are Government Bills which have been on the notice paper since the commencement of this session. Why are not the Bills dealing with extradition shown there? T understand that the Leader of the Government in the Senate wants to move an amendment to them. Is that the result of the Opposition holding up that legislation? Of course it is not. 

 Senator O'Byrne issued a warning to the Opposition parties about what the Government will do in future if the Opposition parties do not toe the line. Is that in the interests of the good running of this Senate? Of course it is not. I remind the honourable senator that when these committees were set up they were not just the brain child of the then Leader of the Opposition. He received the co-operation of all party leaders in this Senate in setting up those committees, and they have operated with the co-operation of all honourable senators. I would hope that they would continue to operate with the co-operation of all honourable senators, so I suggest that honourable senators should not make threats. 
I regret to hear the honourable senator say that. I want to see this chamber function well, but it can not do so if threats are to be hurled from one side of the Senate to the other that pairs will not be granted. Members of this chamber travel long distances to attend sittings and often, because of commitments in their electorates and because of travel difficulties in getting here, they must seek to be paired.  Senator Greenwood  referred to such a case involving a Government senator. I believe that for the good conduct of this Senate, pairs must be granted, but they cannot be granted if a situation such as we have witnessed this evening occurs because no one on the Opposition side will have confidence in assurances that have been given. 1 hope we do not reach this situation again. 
I hope that we have not, or that the ground can be recovered. I believe that the Leader of the Government must communicate with the Leader of the Opposition. I was appalled to hear the comments of the Leader of the Opposition about the situation which exists between himself and the Leader of the Government. This is something that has not happened in the past in this place. 1 know that  Senator Murphy  can co-operate because when I was Acting Leader of the then Government he used to talk to me and we co-opertaed Surely as Leader of the Government he can talk to the Leader of the Opposition. 
I know that  Senator Murphy  has offered, but surely he needs to do more than offer because if he had done more than offer we would not have reached this situation tonight. 1, and my colleagues behind me, believe that if Bills are to be placed on the notice paper and debated there must be co-operation between all honourable senators. I know that the Leader of the Government does not regard me and  Senator Gair  as members of main Opposition parties who. must be consulted. 
It is true. I have had more to do with your Leader than you have had. 
I am not talking about that particular matter. 
What the honourable senator is trying to say to me is that he wants me to be a scab. I have never known him or any member of his Party to be a scab.- I am making a plea for a bit of common sense in the good conduct of this Senate. If honourable senators will show common sense I believe we will get through the business.  Senator Withers  made the point that there have been only 2 urgency motions during this sessional period. I recall that when the Government was in Opposition it proposed urgency motions every week. That was well and good but I can recall also that the then Leader of the Opposition and his colleagues made great advances to try to get the Democratic Labor Party senators and Independent senators on side. They did not then call them all sorts of" names when they wanted their assistance to defeat the then Government. 
They often did, as  Senator Prowse  states. They thought nothing of trying to bring into this Senate motions condemning  Senator McKellar  and  Senator Scott.  They tried every trick in the book to crucify those 2 Ministers when they were members of this chamber. In his contribution,  Senator Douglas  McClelland said that what the Opposition is trying to do is to pick off Ministers one by one. I do not suppose honourable senators opposite ever did that when they were sitting on this side of the chamber. 
I know it was different then because honourable senators opposite were in Opposition and were only carrying out the job of being in Opposition. Honourable senators opposite tried to crucify  Senator Scott. 
Honourable senators opposite crucified Colin McKellar when he was a member of this chamber over a matter that was not really of any importance. 
What did honourable senators opposite do about the VIP aircraft issue? They tried to crucify the Minister in this place when the Minister who was actually responsible for their use was overseas. I come back to the plea I made earlier. If the Senate is to operate as a Senate it must receive co-operation from all of the leaders, and the man responsible for giving the lead is the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I regret that this situation has developed tonight. I hope it will be corrected by the time we meet next week. 
Did the Minister for Primary Industry state, when replying to  Senator Keeffe  on 6th March, that no machinery had been established to implement the suggestion of banning export licences for beef and mutton? Did not the Australian Meat Board, in its report of 26th April last, advise against the curtailing of meat exports? Why then has the Minister rejected an application to export live cattle to Iran? Is it because of representations by union officials with regard to lack of job opportunities for carcass process workers in abattoirs? Will not any action to curb the export of meat tend to destroy confidence in Australian livestock and meat industries? 
Does the Minister for Primary Industry recall stating on 27th March last that he believed that the Australian Wool Corporation should not hurry its report on the feasibility of an acquisition scheme for the Australian wool clip and that he did not expect the report to be available for some months? ls the Minister aware that the Minister for Northern Development last week told the House of Representatives that if the Corporation did not accelerate the objectives of the proposal the Government would have seriously to consider amending the legislation to require the Corporation to present its report within a certain time? Was the Minister for Northern Development stating a change of Government policy in regard to the presentation of the report by the Corporation? If so, does this mean that the Minister's view has been overridden or was the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry in another place expressing his own view? 
 Mr President,  the Commonwealth Electoral Bill (No. 2) 1973 proposes changes in the electoral laws which will have serious and drastic effects. The criteria which have existed since federation and which have been accepted by all governments in the interests of truly representative government are to be changed. There is no justification for the proposed change. The margin of variation in enrolments between electorates is to be reduced from 20 per cent to 10 per cent. Certain factors relating to disabilities of rural representation which the distribution commissioners are required to have in mind are to be struck out of the Electoral Act and the degree of imbalance in enrolments requiring redistribution is to be narrowed. 
As the law stands there is no requirement for a general redistribution. The Government is entitled and indeed obliged to hold a redistribution in Western Australia but it is not obliged to hold a redistribution in any other 
State. This is not good enough for the Labor Party. It has other ideas. It wants a general redistribution on a basis that would reduce the rural voice in this Parliament and maximise the power of the Labor vote in the cities. We shall be subjected in this debate to a welter of words about the so called principle of one vote one value. All sorts of nonsense will be talked about it but let me say now that there can never be a mathematical equality of voting numbers nor can there be equality of representation with one vote one value. The best that the Government can do is to lay down criteria which will help the distribution commissioners to take into account factors which cause inequalities of representation. In his second reading speech the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  said: 
The Australian Labor Party's platform providing that in electorates 'the number of people should be as nearly as practicable the same' is not a new development. 
If the Government holds to this principle, why is it not moving to do something about Tasmania? Why does the Government tolerate such a gross violation of the principle of one vote one value in that State that with a total population of 390,000 at 30th June 1971 it elects 10 senators, the same number as New South Wales elects with a population of 4.6 million? Tasmania elects 5 members of the House of Representatives while New South Wales elects 45. Tasmania has a quota of 43,902 electors per division while New South Wales has an average of 57,386 per division. I suggest to the Senate that the Labor Party machinery itself makes a mockery of that Party's call for one vote one value. Its own Federal Executive - the all-powerful - is made up of 2 members from each State and one each from the Territories so that it has the same number representing the big partymember States as it has representing the small States. 
One of the great objectives of the government, we are told, is the elimination from the Australian community of division and inequality.  Sir, the  proposals now before us will do nothing to achieve these objectives so far as political representation is concerned. 
In this Bill, we are asked to approve changes in the Act which will further reduce the opportunity for country people to enjoy equality of representation in a real sense, and which will further increase the inequality of representation which already exists between city and country electorates. There are several points which should be established. The first is that except in Western Australia there is no need for a redistribution of boundaries under the present electoral law. The redistribution in Western Australia should in fact be the subject of Government interest rather than this Bill. But the objective of the Government is to change the present law so that a general redistribution will be justified. 
The second point is that under the law as proposed redistribution of boundaries will become much more frequent - frequent to the point of absurdity.  Senator James  McClelland interjected that there should be at least one every 4 years, and  Senator Mulvihill  said in his contribution before the suspension of the sitting: 'The more frequent the better'. If we were to carry this argument to its logical conclusion there would be a redistribution within the life of every parliament. 
I have my views on that one. 1 believe this will lead to confusion, instability of electorates and a very serious lack of continuity of representation  Senator Mulvihill  said that the Labor Party wanted frequent redistributions. 
Think about it,  Senator. It  is interesting to note that in Britain an Act was passed to reduce the frequency of redistributions by increasing the period between redistributions to between 10 and 15 years. This was done because a routine redistribution of seats in 1954-55 which increased the House of Commons to 630 members had caused so much annoyance and difficulty. 
The Country Party believes that the political voice of the rural people and the rural industries must be heard no matter through which party that voice is heard. The Country Party believes that people in industry where contribution to the national well-being is vital should not be deprived by their geographic isolation of the right to adequate and equal representation in this Parliament. The Country Party believes that it is wrong that political power should be concentrated in a few great cities swamping rural expression. The Country Party believes that people and industries whose contribution to the natural well-being is vital should not be deprived by their geographic isolation of the right to adequate and equal representation in this Parliament. The Country Party believes that it is wrong that political power should be concentrated in a few great cities, swamping rural expression. The Country Party believes that it is right that the political voice of the country areas should be protected from measures aimed deliberately at hastening its diminution. Members of the Country Party believe that good government for all the people comes from a reasonably balanced Parliament organised so that it can pay regard to the well-being of all the nation's interests. 
Almost everywhere that one cares to look in the English-speaking world one finds a recognition of the fact that the remote areas, the areas of sparse population, need not necessarily be made into gigantic electorates, or that there need not necessarily be absolute equality between the numbers of electors in all large areas and those in the compact areas. In Britain, the relevant Acts of 1944 and 1958 certainly state that electorates are to be as near as possible in size to the electoral quota. But they also state that this -rule can be modified where special geographical or other considerations, such as local ties, make it desirable. They then go further by making statutory provision for the deliberate overrepresentation of Scotland and Wales and the under-representation of Northern Ireland. In the last election in Britain, the Western Isles had an electoral enrolment of only 22.040 and the largest electoral district, Antrim South, had an enrolment of 113,645. This means that in that instance more than 5 times as many electors were required, in the largest electorate, to send one man to the House of Commons as were required to elect a representative of the smallest electorate. There were many other similar discrepancies. 
The situation is similar in Canada. The latest available figures show that the member for the district of York-Scarborough represented 139,000 voters, while the member for Malpeque represented only 22,331 voters. In other words, more than 6 times as many voters were required in YorkScarborough as in Mapeque to send one man to Parliament. In the United States, on the Federal Congress and Senate levels, there are discrepancies between electorates to the extent where, in the Senate, one member represents more than 7 million voters while another represents only 80,000 voters. In the United States congress of 1968, one member for a Texas District represented 951,527 voters while another member for a district in Michigan represented only 177,431 voters. 
In the last paragraph of the Minister's second reading speech, he said: 'Electoral laws should provide equality and not privilege'. Members of the Country Party agree with that statement. Equality of representation between city and country electors should always be an obligation on responsible democratic government. In a vast, sparsely populated country such as Australia it is the only fair means of ensuring equal voice for the needs of all voters. The principle of one vote one value is admirable, but in practice it can mean only under-representation for rural areas and centralisation of political control. If this Bill is passed the result is obvious. Country electorates will progressively fall behind the quota, boundaries will be widened and there will be fewer rural electorates and, consequently, fewer representatives to speak for country people in the nation's Parliament. Those who argue that weight of population should automatically entitle capital cities to greater representation deliberately and very conveniently overlook the fact that at the present rate of population growth in the cities - a growth rate that is being actively encouraged by the Labor Party despite its talk about decentralisation - country people eventually would have a mere handful of Federal members, each representing impossibly large electorates. 
The Labor Government, of course, is concerned not with balance of representation, although it claims to be, but with securing its recently won power. The present Bill is only a forerunner of the electoral changes this Government wants to bring down. Both the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly),  ' who introduced this Bill in the other place, have been advocating the optional preferential system of voting under which people could vote for a single candidate or a number of candidates in order of preference. This is clearly a back door way to first past the post voting and it could be achieved without the approval of the electors. In addition to its broad national interests, the Country Party stands unashamedly for the protection and betterment of rural society, not just for the interests  Mr Daly  describes as cows, trees and bay- stacks - so much for his appreciation of country people - but also for the people who live and work in the country towns and cities. The needs and opinions of these people can be expressed in Parliament only through the voices of their chosen representatives, and this collective voice is only as strong as the numerical strength of their representatives in Canberra. For that reason, the Country Party strongly opposes this Bill and will vote against its passage at all stages of its consideration. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Labour. In view of the, total trade and communications bans imposed on France by the Australian Council of Trade Unions because of the proposed nuclear tests in the Pacific, does the Minister expect that the trade unions will impose similar bans when a further nuclear test date is announced by China, which is reported to be currently negotiating new trade agreements with Australia? What action is the Government taking to prevent so-called industrial unions involving Australia in political strikes and embargoes which pre-empt the Government's responsibility for foreign affairs? 
The 
Minister representing the Minister for the Environment and Conservation will recall two earlier questions I asked relating to requests by Western Australia for further Commonwealth finance to extend the Comprehensive Water Supply Scheme in that State. He also will recall that the Minister for the Environment and Conservation replied that the whole question of Federal Government assistance for water development schemes was under review. I now ask whether the Minister is aware of the critical water supply position in the York-Greenhills and Corrigin-Bullaring areas and the detrimental effect it is having on the maintenance and extension of cattle feed lots and, in  tam,  the development of increased supplies of meat, particularly beef? Is the Minister for the Environment and Conservation now in a position to announce financial assistance for the Western Australian Comprehensive Water Supply Scheme? If not, will he give the matter urgent attention so that producers may make plans now for production next year7 
The Acting Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Willesee)  is asking the Senate to agree to extending the sitting hours of the Senate by about 1 U hours a week. This is a practice that has been followed over the years. Usually at this time of a sessional period the Leader of the Government in the Senate or his  Deputy  has asked the Senate to approve of extended sitting times. One has to have a sense of humour when one has been a member of this place for a long time. Last year I was sitting in the chair which  Senator Willesee  presently occupies and I asked the Senate to agree to extending the sitting times by 4 hours a week - without any sittings on Friday:' - because I thought that the House of Representatives would rise on about 25th May. Now, 12 months later, almost to the very day, the Acting Leader of the Government in the Senate is asking the Senate to agree to an increase of Hi hours a week in sitting times because the House of Representatives is expected to rise on about 24th May. When I proposed an extension of the sitting hours  A  the Senate on that occasion  Senator Willesee  said.* 'Well, looking at the legislation coming forward, I do not think that we should agree to this at this stage'. I accepted bis suggestion and I put the proposal aside for a further week, with the result that when we finally rose 3 important pieces of legislation had not even been considered by the Senate. Therefore, on that hand 1 believe, that  Senator Willesee  should be given extra time in the sittings of the Senate during the coming weeks. The Country Party is prepared to stay here until we complete the legislative program. 
Government Senators- Hear, hear! 
Having said that, I now want to say - some honourable senators might not say 'hear, hear' to this - that although I will not oppose it, I object to the proposal to sit on Fridays because 80 per cent of my members have to travel for 5 hours to reach their homes. I admit that in the past we have sat on Fridays, and I recognise that the members of the now Government have agreed to do so, and I accept that. In accepting it, however, I say that if we are to sit for a few hours on Friday then let us sit for the whole of Friday and Friday night as well. 
That is right. 
Then you vote for that,  Senator. I  recognise that very important legislation is coming through but as some honourable senators have to travel for many hours, having sat all the week for extended hours, they must have some time to study the legislation that is coming up in the following week. I accept this but I put the Acting Leader of the Government on notice that in sessional periods to come I would like him  to  take note of my objection to sitting on Fridays. I am willing to accept the extended hours but over the 3 days, as I asked for last year. 
I would have plenty of takers on that one, would I not? I join with the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers)  in accepting the proposals put forward. I have some doubts about them but if we have to be here for a couple of weeks after the House of Representatives rises to finish the legislation that ls before the Senate, then we in the Country Party will support the Leader of the Opposition by being here to see that this legislation gets full and detailed consideration. I support the proposals. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Primary Industry. Does the decision by the Government to extend the present wheat stabilisation plan for another year and to defer negotiations for a continuing 5-year plan indicate a failure by the Minister to understand the 5- year structure of the industry's marketing arrangements, or is it to be seen as an attempt to defer negotiations in the hope that the industry next year will be in a weaker position to negotiate a just plan? Is the Minister aware that the whole original concept of wheat  stabilistion  plans was to reduce one of the greatest uncertainties in wheat production, namely, uncertainty as to price over an effective period of years? Does the Minister realise that his recent statements overseas, now joined with his statements at home, will plunge the industry for another year again into a sea of long term uncertainty? 
Has the Minister for Primary Industry said publicly on more than one occasion that he will not be pressured into making hasty decisions about Government assistance to primary industries? Does the Government's decision to extend the present wheat stabilisation scheme for a further 12 months suggest that he believed that he had insufficient time in which to make up his mind about the terms of a new scheme, or was the influence on caucus of the Minister for Northern Development and the Minister for Immigration responsible for the decision? 
Is the 
Minister representing the Minister for Education aware that some confusion exists about the eligibility of parents who live in isolated areas for Commonwealth assistance for their children? Is it a fact that parents whose children have won bursaries have been advised that this disqualifies them from receiving the new assistance? Will the Minister for Education consider advertising or circularising full details of the scheme to clarify the position for all concerned? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Overseas Trade. When the Government revalued the Australian dollar last December a great deal of emphasis was placed on one anticipated effect of that decision - that imports would become cheaper. I ask: ls there evidence to show that prices of overseas goods have dropped in the 44 months since revaluation? Also, is there any indication, if imports are cheaper, that the benefit has been passed on to the consumer? 
 Senator Cant,  who has just resumed his seat, is recognised by honourable senators on this side of the chamber and by honourable senators in his own Party as being a man who has had a good deal to do with the industry under discussion. We know that he was a member of the Senate Select Committee on Off-shore Petroleum Resources. I listened very intently to what the honourable senator said and I believe that even in his own mind he has some doubts about detailed effects of the provisions of this Bill. I say quite emphatically that my Party has made up its mind on the issues contained in the Bill. I realise that we are not allowed to discuss the issues at the present moment, but I would like to say that the Australian Country Party will not be supporting the Government should the Bill be proceeded with. As the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers)  said, there is good reason why we should not support it. 
The Premiers of the Slates are not satisfied with the present Bill. Even in my own State, the Premier and the Leader of the Opposition, who on other matters have never seen eye to eye, are in agreement on this issue. 1 say to the Government and to  Senator Cant  that I too believe that the question of offshore sovereignty must be resolved, and that it must be resolved as soon as possible. But I do not believe that in trying to resolve this question we should create a situation in which the States and the Commonwealth are proceeding along separate lines. I believe they should proceed together. The Senate will recall that last August the responsible Ministers from the States met here with Ministers of the then Government, including the AttorneyGeneral and the Minister for National Development. The State Ministers indicated at that time that they did not want long drawn out legal battles; they indicated -  Senator Cant  also has expressed this view - that such a course is neither desirable nor expedient. Who says that these legal battles will remove the uncertainties in this legislation? The legal people can fight all day, all year, and even for years to come- 
Well, some of us have different ideas. The meeting of last August to which I referred expressed some ideas as to how this matter should be proceeded with. The meeting put forward the suggestion of amending the Constitution. It put forward several other suggestions as to ways in which this matter could be proceeded with. Rather than proceed with this Bill and have the States going away from us, I am quite happy to stand over consideration of the Bill so that we may look at it.  Senator Cant  said that legislation arising from the Budget will take precedence over this Bill if it is brought on next session and that this would not be a good thing. Let me remind the Senate that on 1 June last year  Senator Murphy  stood in his place at 4.44 p.m. and asked for leave to move a motion concerning the order of business so that we might know what we were to do. When leave was granted  Senator Murphy  moved: 
That Government business after order of the day No. 10 be postponed to the first day of the next sittings. 
The next sittings were the Budget session. The Bills he wanted to discuss were the Softwood Forestry Agreements Bill, which he said involved an important question, the Industrial Research and Development Grants Bill, which he said involved an important question, and the Salaries (Statutory Officers) Adjustment Bill. Consideration of those 3 Bills was put aside at this time last year, so I see no objection to supporting the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition that this Bill be put aside until a later date in August this year. The Country Party is willing to support the amendment. 
I ask the 
Minister representing the Minister for Defence: Is it a fact that the Minister for Defence said in Sydney last night that he was alarmed that there had not been a Government inquiry in the past 23 years into Australia's defence needs? If it is a fact, was the Minister talking off the top of his head or with the advice and backing of his Department? Did the Minister mean an inquiry by an independent outside authority? Was he saying that all past conferences, either at international or internal chiefs of staff levels, have ignored Australia's defence needs and have in fact been a waste of time? 
Is the 
Minister for Primary Industry aware of concern in sections of the wool industry over an announcement by the Australian Wool Corporation that it has sold wool directly to the People's Republic of China? Is it not a fact that the Corporation, at its inception, undertook to sell stockpile wools only through Australian buyers? Can the Minister give the Senate full details of the sale and explain why the Corporation departed from this policy, if this is a fact? 
My question, which relates to the suggested wool bond scheme for wool growers, is addressed to the 
Minister for Primary Industry. I ask the Minister whether this matter was raised at a meeting of the Australian Agricultural Council and whether the Minister instructed his Department to investigate the proposal. If so, will he tell the Senate what stage the investigation has reached and whether there is any indication that the scheme has merit in it? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry. In view of the discrepancies which have been reported about the granting of the margarine quota entitlement to Marrickville Margarine Pty Ltd for the Australian Capital Territory, will the Minister, as a member of a government which has advocated a policy of open government, arrange immediately for the tabling of the minutes of the Australian Agricultural Council meeting this year at which the matter was discussed so that the confusion can be cleared? 
 I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That the notice of the acquisition of land by the Commonwealth published in Gazette No. 59 on 24 May 1973 under the Lands Acquisition Act 1955- 1966 authorising the acquisition of land by compulsory process for the following public purpose approved by the Governor-General - The planned development and control of the city of Darwin and ils adjacent areas (Executive Minute No. 464) - be void and of no effect. 
My question, which is addressed to the Minister assisting the Minister for Defence, relates to an answer which he gave to  Senator Marriott.  Does the BAC111 cost $650 an hour to operate? Does this cost include only flying costs, rations and laundry? Does it exclude crew costs? Would not the figure be higher if the aircraft were operating overseas, away from its Australian base? Would a trip such as the one referred to by  Senator Marriott  require a back-up aircraft? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. Did the Minister for Defence tell the National Press Club on 15 March that he was not happy with the present deployment of the Army in Australia? I ask him also whether he made this statement: 
To say that we are going to have all our forces located in one area on the eastern seaboard is simply not logic. 
In view of these statements and his announcement yesterday that an inquiry had commenced concerning the future disposition of bases and facilities, is there any reason to believe that a task force base will be established in Western Australia? 
I ask the 
Minister for Primary Industry: Is it a fact that the Minister for Immigration in an election advertisement last year stated that $500m provided to farmers at 3 per cent interest would cost the Government only $15m to subsidise the interest rate? Was this consistent in principle with pre-election statements made by some other Labor candidates in rural areas? Did  Mr Whitlam  say in his policy speech that Jong term low interest loans were fundamental to Labor's rural policy? In view of these statements, does the Government intend to subsidise the 7 per cent to 8 per cent interest rate to be charged under the $20m rural finance arrangement announced yesterday? 
The document that has been circulated to honourable senators from the House of Representatives concerning the reasons of the House of Representative for disagreeing to the amendments of the Senate, states in part: 
Because the Cities Commission is an independent arm of the Department of Urban and Regional Development. 
The document then goes on to give the reasons. On 19 September last I read in the Senate a statement by the then Prime Minister,  Mr McMahon,  which indicated that the Government had decided to take immediate steps, financially and in other ways, in a co-ordinated program with the States of national, urban and regional development. At that time I said that the Government proposed new initiatives to work with the States towards urban and regional development. So there is not a very great difference between what that Government said in September and what the present Government is saying now. The reason the then Prime Minister made that statement on behalf of the Government was that the Government believed that the stresses and strains of growth were having an impact on the living conditions and the environment of the entire Australian community. The Government also believed that unless it embarked on a vigorous, imaginative and responsible program of urban and regional development in partnership with the States, its efforts to secure a better quality of life for the Australian community through a wide variety of existing programs would be compromised. I went on to say on behalf of the Prime Minister that the Government believed at that time that the increasing concentration of population in our great cities would magnify the consequences of increasing population growth. It was the geographical distribution of population in industry rather than the total scale which called for attention. The then Government believed that it was widely accepted that those were national problems requiring urgent attention, and that the Commonwealth should participate with the States in solving them. I do not believe that the legislation that is before the House now is any different from that. We on this side of the House believe that as the legislation at that time related to urban and regional development and as both governments were setting after the same goals, this Bill should have the words 'urban and regional development' in its title. 
I accept what the Minister has said that by calling the body the Cities Commission it will be an arm of the Department of Urban and Regional Development and will be concerned with cities old and new. I accept the fact that the Minister wants to make a distinction between the Cities Commission and the name of the Department. I believe that this Bill is more concerned with cities than it is with urban and regional development. That is why we on this side of the House believe that the name should be changed. We will not delay the proceedings of the Senate or delay the legislation. We accept it but we point out that we believe the whole focus of what the Government is trying to do is centred on city development rather than on urban and regional development. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. Has the Prime Minister publicly announced that he has sent engagement congratulations to Princess Anne and Lieutenant Phillips on behalf of himself and the people of Australia? Has he noted that the British royal engagement has attracted as much news coverage and public interest in Australia as did similar events in the past? Does he not feel that this widespread interest reflects that a majority of Australians are closely linked with Britain and the rest of the Commonwealth? Does the Prime Minister's recent moves to break time-honoured ties with Britain and his persistent criticism of the United States of America, confirm growing fears that Australia, under Whitlam and Labor, could become a small barren rock in a none too friendly sea? 
My question is addressed to the Special Minister of State as Minister assisting the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Is the Minister aware that Press reports indicate that Britain, because of her commitments within the South East Asia Treaty Organisation, is in danger of being drawn into a new war shaping in Thailand? Is it a fact that Article IV of the Treaty pledges its 7 member nations to act to meet the common danger of armed aggression, which specifically covers communist insurgency? Can the Minister inform the Senate of the present military position in Thailand? Is it a fact that Australia could be involved if called upon under the terms of the Treaty? 
I direct my question to the Minister assisting the Minister for Defence. Now that the first 6 Fill aircraft have arrived in Australia what consideration has been given to the provision of a reconnaissance capability for these aircraft? What are the prospects of the Australian aircraft industry participating in the development and manufacture of this item or, if that is not possible, some offset arrangements? 
 The introduction of the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Bill has caused a deal of concern to members of the Australian Country Party. We favour the decision taken by the Senate some time ago that this matter be referred to the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. As honourable senators know, that Committee has presented its report. A supplementary report was also presented which I believe was of great value. The Minister for Repatriation  (Senator Bishop)  who in this chamber represents the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  has said that this Bill was necessary because Labor had promised to bring into Parliament a model Bill on workers compensation. The Country Party favours many elements in this Bill but there are one or two controversial points with which we are not happy. We hope that  Senator Rae's  amendment will mean a breathing space for the Government to consider the controversial elements in the Bill and perhaps redraft it during the parliamentary recess. 
I thought that  Senator James  McClelland this morning went into a considerable amount of detail in stating to the Senate his views on what could be a crucial matter if this Bill were held up for any length of time. I thought the honourable senator probably stretched the long bow to bolster his argument by saying that presentation of the Woodhouse report could take up to 5 years. 1 join with  Senator Rae.  in suggesting to the Government that if this is the case  -  I do not think it would be the case - facilities and secretarial staff should be made available in the quantity required by the Committee so that it can get on with the job and bring down its report in a very much shorter period. The other point I make in reply to  Senator James  McClelland is that the argument he put forward would be very substantial if it were not for the fact that at the present time Commonwealth employees have what the Minister described as a first class compensation scheme. I believe that it was brought up to date as recently as October last year. Even if these employees had to wait until the report was presented they would not be suffering a very substantial injustice. 
What concerns me is that if the controversial elements in this Bill are passed by this chamber this legislation becomes the pacemaker in Australia. While I support many elements of the Bill I believe that the controversial elements should not be allowed to become the pacemaker for the States or for private enterprise. On behalf of the Country Party I support the amendment which  Senator Byrne  has foreshadowed. I believe that the Government should consider this amendment and put aside the legislation until September as has been suggested. In the meantime, it should consider the controversial aspects of this Bill and perhaps redraft it during the recess. I give notice on behalf of the Australian Country Party that we will support the proposed amendment. 
The Grants Commission Bill which is before the Senate provides for direct Commonwealth assistance to local government authorities. I feel sure that no one in this chamber will quibble about that aim. As I look around the Senate chamber I see many men who have spent a considerable period in local government and who know the problems that face it. I say to  Senator Gietzelt  that there are a number of men on this side of the chamber who, for some years now, have represented their States on local government matters on what is known as the Canberra Committee. This Committee generally has on it one representative from each State, who is a Government supporter, who liaises with the Federal Council of Local Government Associations. The men who come to mind readily are  Senator Davidson, Senator Lillico  and myself. Until the change of government I represented Western Australia for some 10 years on the Canberra Committee. I take it that some honourable senators on the Government side are filling those positions which we have vacated. 
The problem that the Australian Country Party has with this Bill is that it deplores the establishment of a complex new bureaucratic Commonwealth mechanism to look after this matter. The Country Party feels that there is nothing wrong with the Commonwealth providing financial assistance to local government. This is something that has been wanted for a long time. But again I say to  Senator Gietzelt  that the Labor Government is not the first government which has given thought to this. My mind goes back to the days when  Sir Robert  Menzies - then  Mr Menzies  - was Prime Minister. In the middle 1950s, the Local Government Association of Australia approached him and asked for Commonwealth assistance. The Prime Minister at that time replied that, if local government bodies could get together with the State Premiers to work out their problems and make a submission to him, he would listen to their case and endeavour to assist them. However, the problem has been that the Premiers of the States and the State local government representatives have never been able to get together and put forward a submission to the Commonwealth Government. 

 Senator Gietzelt said that when the Opposition was in Government it was never interested in local government. This is far from the truth, because I recall that the former Prime Minister, the Right Honourable Bill McMahon, in October last met a delegation from the Federal Council of the Local Government Association and listened to the case it put forward. Under the provisions of the Bill the Commonwealth Government will make assistance available to the local government authorities, but certain qualifications are to apply. One qualification is that all applications from local government bodies for financial assist- ance must be lodged with the Special Minister of State who may, at his discretion, refer them to the Grants Commission for inquiry and report. Another qualification is that applications will be considered only from local government organisations or bodies which are approved by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development as approved regional organisations for the purposes of the Act. I do not think any Opposition senator would say that local government does not have a case to present. What we do say is that we do not accept the proposed administrative arrangements. Local government in Australia is a creation of the State governments and is legally subordinate to them. During the course of his remarks  Senator Gietzelt  said that local government boundaries within the States were determined in 1900 or even earlier and nothing has been done about them since. But the boundaries and functions of local government are a responsibility of the States. I recall - other Western Austraian senators will support me on this - an interesting situation in Western Australia where a boundaries commission has been set up. This commission has been investigating the realignment of the boundaries of local government in that State. At present a report is before the local government organisations in Western Australia. We all know the situation of local government, and the problem is formidable. My investigations reveal that the total expenditure by local government authorities in 1970-71 amounted to $766m, which was about 7 per cent of total government expenditure in Australia. This percentage of expenditure has been fairly constant over the years. A breakdown of that figure shows that about 9 per cent is provided for cultural and recreational facilities, about 9 per cent is provided for the development of resources and assistance to industry within the boundaries of local government, about 37 per cent is expended on roads and bridges, about 11 per cent is for interest on borrowed money and about 9 per cent is provided for administration. The local government interest bill has been growing quite rapidly. For instance, in 1969 it was about 8 per cent of the total expenditure. At the present time it is about 11 per cent. The administration percentage is also rising. In view of the attitude of the present Government to wage and working conditions one can say that this percentage will increase quite considerably. 
I refer now to the revenue received by local government authorities. Taxation provides 55 per cent of the revenue, profit from private enterprise provides about 14 per cent, and State grants provide about 11 per cent. Local government authorities are therefore called upon to raise about 80 per cent of their revenue from their own resources. This is where the rub comes. Many local government organisations have gone into debt over the past years in trying to improve facilities within their particular areas. The local government debt now stands at $1,6 19m, which is about 8 per cent of the total government indebtedness. It is quite obvious from those figures that local government revenue in recent years has failed to keep pace with the level of other government revenue. Between 1967-68 and 1971-72 Commonwealth revenue has risen by about 61 per cent, State revenue has risen by about 63 per cent, and local government revenue has increased by only about 38 per cent. This is the problem that has been facing local government over the years. The local government organisations have endeavoured to do something about it. They have, of course, had to increase their own taxation and this has never been popular amongst taxpayers of a community, whether they be Commonwealth, State or even local government. 
Local government authorities have suggested that perhaps the best way they have of raising the required revenue is by the Commonwealth adopting a proposal that perhaps 5 per cent of the total tax collection be allocated to local authorities. I know the federal body looked at that suggestion very thoroughly and proposed that it be adopted. On a close examination one finds that this suggestion runs contrary to the Commonwealth's basic budgetary principle that revenue from any particular source should not be earmarked for a specific purpose. If this matter is investigated further it will be seen that the revenue from income tax over the years has fluctuated. I remember that in one year back in the late 1950s it did not change. I think that in the early 1960s there was again a period of stagnation or of very little increase. If local government were to get 5 per cent of income tax revenue, it would still want some source of finance which would provide it with an increased and predictable amount each year so that it could budget its resources for the years ahead. 
I believe that another difficulty is involved in this problem. I am a Western Australian and that State has a smaller population than have New South Wales and Victoria. New South Wales and Victoria would take the biggest percentage of funds provided from this 5 per cent if it were earmarked for local government. I believe that Western Australia, South Australia and perhaps Tasmania would get a very much smaller amount than they expected. The previous Government did not go to the lengths proposed in this Bill, but it gave a considerable amount of assistance to local government. I think it would be fair to say that over the years the previous Government earmarked large increases in general revenue grants to the States which in turn made the funds available to local government. I believe that the transfer of payroll tax to the States was of considerable advantage to local government. I believe also that large sums of money went to local government through the Commonwealth aid roads scheme. In the last S-year period the Commonwealth made available to the States, under the Commonwealth aid roads scheme, something like $ 1,252m. All these things have been done to try to assist local government. 
The prime objective of this legislation should be a yearly allocation of a predictable amount made available by the Commonwealth to the States for forward planning by local government. I believe that the grants should be aimed specifically at a reduction or, at least, a stabilisation of local government rates. I do not believe that local ratepayers in a particular area should be called upon continually to provide facilities, often at the request of the State or the Commonwealth. I believe above all that these grants should be channelled through State governments, but I believe also that local government and the ratepayers should have some say in the distribution of these moneys. We find that in this legislation that the distribution of the money is to be on a regional basis. 

 Senator Gietzelt cited some experiences in Sydney. I remind the honourable senator that in Sydney, although it has areas with vast populations, the problems of one local government area would not vary greatly from those of another local government area. However the problems are very great indeed in the north-west of Western Australia where part of a regional area has representatives from Derby and another part has representatives from Port Hedland, some hundreds of miles away. Whilst those 2 areas may be similar, they have many different problems. It is quite true that that regional area may apply to the Commonwealth for assistance, but what of the local districts within that regional area? What are ratepayers going to say when a case is put forward on behalf of the regional area and one of the local government bodies within the region gets no assistance whatsoever? What is the Opposition's reaction to this Bill? The reaction of my Party, and I believe of my colleagues in Opposition, is that we deplore the fact that the Government should see fit to set up this great new bureaucratic Commonwealth mechanism. We believe there ought to be immediate consultation with the States to determine the financial requirements of local government bodies, taking into account their loan commitments and overall financial responsibilities and the burden on ratepayers. Further, we believe that the funds provided to meet these requirements should be allocated to the State governments for distribution to local government bodies in accordance with priorities determined by the State governments after consultation with the local government bodies. I believe that this is  a  prime essential for who would have a better idea of the requirements of the local government bodies within a State than the State authorities themselves? 
I shall be interested to hear your contribution to the debate, senator. 
It would not be worth anything.  Mr Deputy President,  I say finally that if the Government is to make this contribution to local government bodies then it should make it in the 1973-74 Budget. I move the following amendment to the motion that the Bill be now read a second time: 
At end of motion add: 'but the Senate deplores the establishment of a complex new bureaucratic Commonwealth mechanism and is of the opinion that the Bill should have provided that (a) immediate consultations be held with the States to determine the financial requirements of local Government taking into account their loan commitments, their overall financial responsibilities and the burden of rates on ratepayers, (b) funds provided to meet these requirements should be allocated to State Governments for distribution to local Government in accordance with priorities determined by the States after consultation with local Government, (c) payments should commence in 1973-74, and (d) if it is necessary to establish new regional authorities, those authorities ought to be determined and established by the States'. 
 Mr President,  I would be glad if you would include the sympathy of members of the Australian Country Party in that message. 
There are 4 parties in this place and I want to remind the Leader of the Government  (Senator Murphy)  of this. Nobody knew until  Senator Withers  made a statement a while ago that apparently there had been a suggestion between the Minister in charge of the Bill and some other senators in this place that if one senator spoke, the Minister in charge of the Bill would surrender 8 minutes of his time. 
I said I did not know. 
One does not have to stay in the Senate the entire 24 hours of the day. I suggest that a little liaison across the table would be a good thing.  Senator Murphy  shakes his head. Other people have been through this phase. Other people have had the same stresses and strains as  Senator Murphy  and have been able to cope with the situation. I suggest that there should be a little bit of talking across the table, at least to the Leader of the Opposition who would then be able to inform  Senator Gair  and myself of what is going on. Then the Senate would know what to do. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. Did the Department of Aboriginal Affairs in Canberra authorise an aircraft charter which last week took a party of Aborigines from Hooker Creek to Yuendumu and back again, involving about 2,000 miles flying in 3 days? Is it a fact that the flight arrangements were made without consultation with the Department's regional officer at Alice Springs? What was the purpose of the flight? What was the cost? 
I  regret very much that the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  has seen fit to put an arbitrary fixation of time on the debates. 
I  have noted what the Leader of the Government has said in regard to the elasticity in times, but  I  think he should have consulted some of us instead of just making an arbitrary fixation. 
There was no debate or anything else. These are the sorts of actions which,  I  remind  Senator Murphy,  determine whether we can make this place work.  I  will say publicly that  I  believe that where we have supported Bills there should not have been the prolonged debate that there has been in this place.  I  would be very tempted myself  - I  will say it again publicly - to follow the Democratic Labor Party this afternoon over the other side of the House. 
But  I  object to the fixation of times for debate.  I  just want to say to  Senator Murphy  that while he was away on  16  May the Acting Leader of the Government asked for an extension of sitting times not of  4  hours, as the previous Government had asked for towards the end of a session, but Hi hours, which the Opposition parties extended to him. When the Leader of the Government came back he negotiated outside the chamber with the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers),  the Leader of the Democratic Labor Party  (Senator Gair)  and myself for extra hours of sitting, to which we have agreed, perhaps not with the full support of the members who sit behind us, but we have done everything to facilitate extension of debates in this place. 
I  have admitted that.  I  want to see this place work and  I  want to see the Bills remaining on the notice paper discussed.  I  agree with  Senator Greenwood  that the debate on the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill is a most important one and that speakers should be given sufficient time to put their views before this chamber. I hope that we will get on and debate these Bills and that the Leader of the Government will consult the Leader of the Opposition as to an extension of the time allotted for some debates where an extension may be required. 
I want to say a few words on behalf of the Austraiian Country Party. We do not oppose this Bill. In fact, if I recall correctly the levy for wool promotion and research and administrative costs of the Australian Wool Corporation for the 1970-73 triennium was the same as the present levy but due to falling wool prices the previous Government lowered the levy to one per cent of earnings on all shorn wool. This made a great contribution to the industry.  Senator Laucke  complained that the Government's contribution has been reduced. But we find that the levy for the 1973-74 period is at the rate of the levy in the 1970-73 triennium. I regret that the Government has seen fit to continue with this program of research and promotion for only one year. It has always been my view from the information which I had that the International Wool Secretariat and the Australian Wool Board have always advocated long term research and promotion activities, but be that as it may. 
The only other thing I want to say is that I find it rather interesting in this session, during which well over 100 Bills have been introduced in the Senate, that for the first time we are dealing with 5 Bills that affect primary industries directly. I calculate that less than 5 per cent of the Bills which we are dealing with in this session affect primary industries which the Australian Labor Party before the last Federal elections said it was going to fix up. What it was not going to do was no one's business. Now we can see the proof of the pudding. When we debated the wool industry last year in this Senate we were dealing with the setting up of the Australian Wool Corporation. Then there was an amendment before the Senate which supporters of the previous Opposition were pushing for all their worth because they wanted the Corporation to produce a report for this Parliament in less than 6 months. I opposed that amendment strongly on behalf of the previous Government. It is very pleasing indeed to see that the present Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  is following the same line of action which I took because this contradicts the policy which the Labor Party was espousing at that time. I hope that when the Minister replies he will be able to give us some information, if that is not transgressing the area of these Bills, regarding the report from the Australian Wool Corporation. On behalf of the Australian Country Party I say that we do not have any opposition to these Bills. 
I do not resist the motion. I am very pleased that at last we are appointing a Standing Orders Committee. 
The PRBS1DENT -  Senator Gair,  would you indicate your view? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry. Does the Minister recall saying in answer to a question I asked of him last week that he did not think the subject of wool bonds had been raised at the last meeting of the Australian Agricultural Council? Is the Minister now in a position to give any further information? If the matter was not raised at the Agricultural Council meeting, has he been approached directly to give consideration to a wool bonds scheme? 
The 2 Bills before the Senate provide for Senate representation for the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory on the basis of 2 Senators for each Territory and that such senators shall have the same powers, immunities and privileges as senators representing the States. The Bills also provide that the first election of Territory senators shall be held at the same time as the next Senate elections in the several States or at the same time as the next general election for members of the House of Representatives if it is held before or in conjunction with the next Senate elections. The legislation also provides that the term of the first Territory senators be from the date of their election until the eve of polling day for the ensuing general election for members of the House of Representatives and that after the first election for Territory senators, elections shall be held at the same time as the general election for members of the House of Representatives. The legislation also provides that after the first election of Territory senators the terms of Territory senators shall be the period between each House of Representatives election. 

 Senator Jessop said that the Senate is a States house. I think it would be of interest to honourable senators if I were to quote at this stage the view which was held by someone prior to Federation. 
That may be so but I want to quote part of a report which appears at page 58 in the 'Australian Federation 1901'. This is what a  Mr Howard  Willoughby had to say: 
All Federal Governments have their Senates or Councils of the States, and in all of them the Senate is based upon the principle that in a Federation the States must be represented as well as the people. The principle, if not as old as the hills, goes as far back as the Achaean League - 
I believe that is early Egyptian days. 
The report continues: where each city, independent of its size, had one vote. And the reason why the principle is universal is not far to see. It is probable that no small States would care to link their fortunes with large States if they were liable to be out-voted and ignored by virtue of the superior population of their greater brethren. 
In 'Annotated Constitution' Quick and Garran had this to say: 
After prolonged and exhaustive debates the Federal Convention, by decisive majorities, accepted the principle of equal representation of Original States in the Senate, as a positive and indispensable condition of the Federal scheme. 
That is what  Senator Jessop  said. Quick and Garran went on to say: 
The question had to be considered, not so much from its logical and symmetrical aspect - not so much as a principle capable of satisfactory dialectical analysis and vindication - but rather as one of the terms of the Federal compact, which is based on compromise. 
They went on to say: 
The problem to be solved in the case of the Australian colonies desiring to federate was similar to that which had to be solved by the framers of the American Constitution; it was - how to reconcile the creation of a strong national government with the claims and susceptibilities of separate and, in their own eyes, quasi-sovereign States. The solution of the problem was found in a Parliament partly national and partly Federal. The national part of the Parliament is the House of Representatives - 'the organ of the nation. The Federal part of the Parliament is the Senate - the organ of the States, the visible representative of the continuity, independence, and reserved autonomy of the States, linking them together as integral parts of the Federal union. 
I will make brief reference to the remarks of  Senator Jessop  who referred to the minority views of the Honourable Charles E. Wiggins and the Honourable William V. Roth. In their report to the House of Representatives they said: 
The Senate is not a forum where 'people' are represented. Senators are elected by the people of each State to represent that State in the national legislative body,. 
The Australian Capital Territory has no likelihood of becoming a State in its own right. We believe that the Senate is a States house and therefore we are opposed to granting senatorial representation to the Australian Capital Territory, which we see as being an area permanently apart from the States. Therefore we oppose this legislation. I see it as the thin edge of the wedge in the destruction of the independence of the Senate.. 
Honourable senators will recall that earlier I made the point that the election of Territory senators is to take place at the same time as elections for the House of Representatives. If one were to carry that argument to its logical conclusion one would see that it would not be very long before someone would be suggesting that the other 60 senators should be elected for a period of 3 years to tie in with the House of Representatives. This is why I believe that it is the thin edge of the wedge. Also, 1 say that this has been brought about because the people, of the Australian Capital Territory say that they do not have enough representatives in the Parliament. Canberra was created as the site of "the Federal Parliament of Australia. The people who have come here have been closely connected with the Parliament. They have been given representation in the Federal Parliament and, as  Senator Jessop  said, they also have a Joint Parliamentary Committee composed of members of both Houses of the Parliament - no State has this - which is working in their interests continually. If honourable senators look at the past work of that Committee, they will find that it has done many things and made recommendations which have been of great benefit to the Australian Capital Territory. 
As recently as in today's newspapers we see arguments advanced in relation to self government for the Australian Capital Territory. We see a reply to the question asked by the former Minister for the Interior,  Mr Ralph  Hunt, who was in charge of affairs in the Australian Capital Territory. That reply was given by  Mr Enderby. Mr Hunt  is calling for self government for the Australian Capital Territory.  Mr Enderby  says that he has made certain recommendations. But we see the local Australian Capital Territory Advisory Council not accepting  Mr Enderby's  recommendations. What is the position of the Northern Territory? I believe that it would be in the interests of the Northern Territory if the Minister for the Capital Territory and Minister for the Northern Territory  (Mr Enderby)  set up self government in that area instead of looking towards representation for it in the Senate. Would not it be of great benefit to the Northern Territory if a House of Assembly was set up there to give the people a voice in their own affairs? We had the situation this afternoon in which the Legislative Council for the Northern Territory was totally opposed to what was done by the Minister in Canberra. It had to resort to the Senate to try to get some satisfaction in that matter. Why do not the people up there receive some assistance to place government in their own hands? 
I believe that all of these things add up to the fact that we should not support this legislation. The only other comment I want to make is that if we are to give Senate representation to the Australian Capital Territory and to the Northern Territory, why should not a similar case be made out for many of the other territories such as the Cocos (Keeling) Islands, the Coral Sea islands, Heard Island, McDonald Island or Norfolk Island? I could go on to cite a number of them. Surely if representation is given to the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory it would not be long before these other territories would be asking for representation along similar lines. Therefore, we in the Country Party oppose this legislation. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. Did the Prime Minister, when responding to a welcome in Darwin yesterday, say that the Government would not give the Northern Territory statehood? Did he also say that the present system of States was most unsatisfactory and was not working properly? Do the Prime Minister's comments mean that this is further grounds for the States and local government bodies te fear that the Whitlam Government will deliberately take whatever action it caa to centralise all government in Canberra? 
I seek leave to make a statement on the same subject,  Mr President. 
I join  Senator Bishop  and other honourable senators in paying tribute to the services of  Mr 'Nobby'  Clarke. Around a Parliament the size of this one, both inside and outside it there are from time to time characters. I think 'Nobby' Clarke is one of them. He has become quite a personality among the hard working staff members of this Parliament. I speak from experience in saying, as  Senator Bishop  said, that he has been of great assistance to new members of the staff of this Parliament. I well recall younger people, or less experienced people, ringing him and saying: Nobby', what do you do about this and what do you do about that?' I think I speak on behalf of all back bench members of the Parliament when I say that if ever one of us wanted to know something about a particular 
Minister's portfolio and did not want to worry the Minister we had only to go and see Nobby' Clarke and in a few hours he would have our requests attended to and in most cases an answer provided for us. I think that speaks volumes for his integrity and his diligence. 
From the late 1950s until late last year he served 3 Country Party senators. Every one of the Ministers he served spoke highly of him. I think he formed a very close personal relationship with all of them. I notice that he is present in the Senate gallery. I thank him for the assistance he gave to me and my colleagues in this chamber. I join with  Senator Bishop  in wishing 'Nobby' and his wife Molly a very happy retirement. 
My Australian Country Party colleagues and I would like to be associated with the motion moved by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  and supported by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers)  and the Australian Democratic Labor Party. Arthur Calwell was, I believe, a man of great principle and was held in high esteem by has friends and political opponents alike. He was a lifetime member of the Australian Labor Party and he held deep convictions and views for which he never ceased to fight. In private life he had many good and close friends. He was a paradox in that he was an unyielding and often a bitter political fighter, yet possessed personal charm and was approachable and friendly. He was a  speaker  who always commanded attention, generally because he had something worth saying to which people were ready to listen. He was the author of a book with a title that matched his character 'Be Just and Fear Not'. 
He had a great memory for names. I well recall being amazed when I came into this Parliament as a senator. I had met Arthur Calwell some years previously when I visited this Parliament as a member of a deputation of primary producers and when I entered Parliament he came up to me, spoke my name and recalled the occasion of our meeting. This made a great impression on me as a new senator. Australia has lost a great son with Arthur Calwell 's passing, and this Parliament an identity. My colleagues and I extend to his widow and to his family our deepest sympathy. 
My Country Party colleagues and I join with the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  and the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers)  in expressing condolences. I think it would be unwise to say that any political identity in this country was beloved, but I believe that  Sir Walter  Jackson Cooper was extremely popular both inside and outside the Parliament.  His  association with ex-service organisations became widely known and respected and, I believe, led to the nicknames 'Cabinet's First Gentlemen' and 'the Diggers' Friend', 2 nicknames which became widely associated with  Sir Walter  Cooper. 

 Sir Walter Cooper was an Englishman who received his early education at a school in Leicester. He later attended the Leeds University. He then went to Queensland and became interested in the grazing industry, before joining the Australian Imperial Force in 19 IS. In 1916 he served in Gallipoli and later in France, where he was so badly wounded that his right leg had to be amputated above the knee. Twelve months later- to show the fighting spirit of this man- he joined the 30th Training Squadron of the Australian Flying Corps and later served in France and Germany. He was honoured with an M.B.E. for his services. He returned to Australia in 1920. He was finally discharged in 1921. He again entered the grazing industry before entering Parliament in 1928. 
As has been already said, Wally Cooper was the longest serving senator in the history of my Party, his period of service being, according to my estimate, 37 years. He was Minister for Repatriation for a record term of 11 years. As the Leader of the Government in the Senate has said, during that time he was Leader of the Australian Country Party in the Senate. Prior to that he was Leader of the Opposition at a time when the Opposition was comprised of 3 senators, namely,  Senator Cooper, Senator Annabelle  Rankin and  Senator Neil  O'sullivan. Wally 
Cooper was a very strong supporter of the Country Party, anyone who cares to enter the Country Party rooms in Parliament House at present will find 5 framed pictures hanging on the wall. Four of the pictures are of 4 leaders of the Country Party. The fifth is of  Sir Walter  Cooper. He is the only Country Party senator who has been honoured in such a way by his colleagues for his services to the Party. My colleagues and I extend our deepest sympathy to Lady Cooper and to the members of her family. 
My Country Party colleagues and I want to be associated with the remarks of the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  and of the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers).  We fully support the remarks and sentiments expressed by them. It was a tragedy that a man who had the potential to offer so much to this country should have had his life cut short in such a tragic way. We in the Country Party would like to extend our deepest sympathy to his widow and family. 
Is the AttorneyGeneral aware that the daily Hansard of the proceedings of the Senate committee investigating the civil rights of migrants and his raids on the offices of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation has not been published since the hearing on 19 July? Has the Attorney-General, the Prime Minister or any other Minister of the Government given any directions to Hansard or the Government Printer which have delayed the printing of this Hansard report? If so, what directions have been given? Is the Attorney-General making inquiries as to why there is a delay in the printing of the proceedings of this important committee? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Primary Industry. Yesterday the Minister answered a question relating to the Cheynes Beach Whaling Co. at Albany. Is the Minister yet in a position to say whether Cabinet has made a decision about the renewal of the licence for the Cheynes Beach Whaling Co? Is he aware of the serious shortage of meatmeal, whale solubles and other similar feed supplements which are so essential in the production of quality meat? 
-BROCKMAN asked the 
Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Did the Department of Aboriginal Affairs in Canberra authorise the charter of an aircraft last week which took a party of Aborigines from Hooker Creek to Yuendumu and back again, involving about 2,000 miles of flying in 3 days. 
Were the flight arrangements made without consultation with the Aboriginal Affairs Regional Officer at Alice Springs. 
What was the purpose of the flight and what was its cost. 

 Senator CAVANAGH- The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
The Department of Aboriginal Affairs arranged charter flights on15 and 17 May 1973, to transport Aboriginal Councillors between Hooker Creek and Yuendumu, a distance of approximately 300 air miles. 
In accordance with normal practice in arranging consultations between Aboriginals on matters related to the proposed National Aboriginal Consultative Council, arrangements for the flight were made by the Department's head office in Canberra. 
The flight was made to enable Aboriginals from Hooker Creek to attend a meeting at Yuendumu to discuss the proposals for the establishment of the National Aboriginal Consultative Council. The flights cost $1,200. 
Does the Minister for Primary Industry recall Labor's urgent demand last year for an early report by the Australian Wool Corporation on wool marketing reform based on acquisition, even to the extent of having written into the legislation a rigid time limit of 6 months in which a report and recommendations were to be tabled in the Parliament? Does the Minister also recall that earlier this year the Government indicated that the report would be available at the end of April in accord with Labor's policy? As it is now almost the end of August and as yet no report has been released, can the Minister inform the Senate when the report will be available and what newly discovered reasons have caused the delay in its release? 
Is the 
Minister for Primary Industry aware of the acute shortage of the weedicide 2-4D Ester which is virtually unavailable in Western Australia at a time when many wheat crops are in urgent need of spraying? Is he aware that wheat growers are concerned that if spraying cannot be undertaken yields will be down and samples adversely affected? Having regard to the urgency of the immediate application of weedicide and the fact that delayed application could be useless, if not harmful, will the Minister take immediate action to alleviate the shortage? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry. In view of predictions that wheat prices could remain high for some years, is the Minister in a position to state whether Australian wheat growers will be obliged to contribute to the wheat stabilisation fund from sales of their next crop? If so, how much will growers contribute? 
The Special Minister of State  (Senator Willesee)  who is in charge of this Bill made the point during his second reading speech that the Government regards this Bill as a major piece of its legislative program. He went on to say:  . . in resubmitting it we expect that the Parliament will adopt a responsible approach and that the measure will be afforded a speedy passage through the Senate. 
Like  Senator Withers,  I can assure the Minister that the Bill can have a speedy passage through the Senate. As far as the Country Party is concerned, he can have it tonight. The present Opposition has always taken a responsible attitude to legislation that has come before the Senate. On 15 May 1973 when this Bill came before the Senate it was debated for over 9i hours, during which time there were 23 speakers from both sides of the Senate. All honourable senators from the Country Party spoke during the debate on this Bill. Members of the Country Party made abundantly clear what they thought of the Government's proposals. Our opinion has not changed in the meantime. 
I do not intend to go through all the ramifications of the Bill which the Country Party and, I believe, country people generally so steadfastly oppose. As I said, I believe that this was done adequately on the previous occasion. But the simple fact is that a general redistribution of electorates is neither necessary nor justified. The last census showed that a redistribution was necessary only in Western Australia. This is being undertaken at the present moment. I believe the Government is merely attempting to secure itself in office and that its arguments that electoral boundaries should be changed before the 1975 general election are mere subterfuge. The next redistribution according to the practice adopted by both Labor and non-Labor governments since Federation is due after the next census in 1976. My Parliament will continue to oppose vigorously any attempt to change this system. Therefore, we again oppose this legislation. 
 My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry. Is it a fact that Australian wheat growers are getting about $3 a bushel f.o.b.  on  the world market, yet they are supplying the Australian market at$1. 85 a bushel? Is this huge subsidy by the wheat industry to the Australian consumer to be corrected in the new stabilisation plan, which should commence on 1 December this year, by an upward revision of the domestic price of wheat? As this growing crop will form part of what is in fact a one-year plan, will any deductions be made from export returns for stabilisation fund purposes? If so, what justification can there possibly be for this action in connection with a one-year plan when export returns are so far in excess of the guaranteed price? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Postmaster-General. In view of this week's tragic letter bomb explosion in the British Embassy in Washington I ask the Minister: What action has the Australian Government taken to attempt to prevent this form of missile reaching Australia and to detect letter bombs that may enter the Post Office system from either inside or outside Australia? Have any such bombs been detected? Does the Government consider there is a risk in handling mail, particularly overseas mail? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry. I refer to the answer which he gave to my question on Tuesday last in which he stated that 'indications are that this year the wheat growers will pay into the stabilisation scheme as the prices will almost certainly exceed the 5c limit over the guaranteed price'. As this is now the final year of the extended present plan, will the Minister state why this deduction is being made as the existing contract between the growers and the Government has concluded and the Government's commitment under the contract has ended? Will the Minister give the Senate an assurance that these moneys will be paid to growers and that no attempt will be made to blackmail the industry into agreeing that the retained moneys be carried forward into the new continuing plan? Will the Minister agree that, on the basis of his answer to my question yesterday in which he said that he understood that export prices were now as high as $3.80 a bushel, the industry would be making a huge contribution to the new stabilisation plan in its first year of operation and, therefore, there can be no possible moral justification for the Government retaining proceeds from the previous harvest? 
 Senator Murphy  moved that the debate be adjourned on this matter when  Senator Withers  and  Senator Webster  both moved amendments. I understand that we are waiting now for the reply from  Senator Murphy  to those amendments. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Poyser)  - I looked for somebody to rise and nobody did. I suggest that we put the question again at a later stage. 
-My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Housing. Is it a fact that the Prime Minister said in his policy speech last year that Labor would provide housing finance not only for all returned servicemen but for all servicemen who henceforth earned an honourable discharge? Was it intended that this provision be extended also to ex-servicewomen? If not, what housing finance is available for exservicewomen? 
I address my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Is it possible for any member of the present Government who last year strongly and repeatedly advocated low interest rates genuinely to associate himself with current action to increase sharply such rates? If the Leader of the Government and the Minister for Immigrationboth now members of Cabinet- last year publicly urged lower interest rates, does the Government's present action, in their opinion, amount to a contravention of policy that helped to win them electoral support? Is the Minister awaiting with trepidation the fixing of the interest rate on long term bonds, the yardstick for all rates? Will he state what he believes the interest rate on overdraft accounts is likely to be, bearing in mind the imminent increase in the bond rate? 
-The Australian Country Party supports the Defence (ReEstablishment) Bill. As the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers)  said, the Bill applies to regular servicemen the rehabilitation and retraining benefits which applied in the past to national servicemen. It also puts into legislative form the previously announced proposals to pay a re-engagement bonus of $1,000 after 6 years service on the basis of a further 3 years service. My Party supports these proposals because they will benefit servicemen and, together with other measures introduced by the previous Government, to some extent compensate servicemen and servicewomen for the hardships and difficulties involved in the sort of life they have had to lead. As the Minister for Repatriation  (Senator Bishop)  said in his second reading speech, the measure has been designed in pursuit of the Government's determination to provide an adequate volunteer force. But I, like the Leader of the Opposition have some doubts in this matter because it is my opinion that in the past the Services and in particular the Royal Australian Air Force which I knew so well, have had a reengagement of approximately 73 per cent. Under this legislation the Government will pay these servicemen $1,000 after their period of 6 years service to re-engage for a further period of 3 years but, as I have said, already approximately 73 per cent of servicemen are willing to reengage in the Services. 
I believe that we should get these men to reengage because they are trained men. Many of them are specialists in their particular field. But, on the other hand, I believe that we can have reengagement only as high as 80 per cent. Above that there is an effect on the promotion of those in the lower ranks. It is most disheartening for a serviceman to know that those above him will remain in the Services for another 6 years or longer. This means that during that period those in the lower ranks have to stay in their particular category without promotion. I believe that the proposal that has been put before the Senate tonight will not bring about the desired effect. Like the Leader of the Opposition, I believe that a man enters a particular Service because he wants to serve in that Service, not in the armed forces of this country. However, we in the Australian Country Party support the measure. We only hope that it has the effect that the Government believes it will have. 
-My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. Is it a fact that the Royal Australian Air Force's No. 5 Airfield Construction Squadron is to be disbanded? If so, will the officers and men of the Squadron, which has done a magnificent job of work and which is at present the only squadron of its kind in the RAAF, be absorbed into other branches of the Services? If so, what work will they perform? Was trade union pressure a factor which caused the Government to disband the Squadron? What is to become of the costly equipment and the portable houses which were specially built for the Squadron at Learmonth? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Defence: What consideration has been given by the Government to ensuring that additional work will be provided for the aircraft industry to make up for the considerable loss of work load which will be caused by the reduction in flying hours imposed on the Services and also by the Government's decision not to continue with its aircraft replacement program? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Did the Minister read a copy of a speech made by the Treasurer to the Grocery Manufacturers Association in Melbourne on 6 September? Did the Treasurer say: 
The real test of people 's buying power as far as you - 
That is, the grocers- are concerned is whether incomes have risen faster than prices. They have. Over the last decade, average weekly earnings have consistently risen around 3 per cent faster than prices. Even allowing for the fact that income tax reduces the growth of average weekly earnings, the margin has still been favourable. 
-Is the Minister for Customs and Excise aware that for many years the Western Australian Government has carried out a strictly policed kangaroo culling and harvesting program? Is he aware that with the enforcement of Commonwealth policies and with good seasons kangaroo numbers in Western 
Australia are increasing rapidly and that this increase is causing growing concern among graziers and pastoralists? In view of these facts will he give special consideration to allowing Western Australia to re-engage in the export of kangaroo products? 
-The Minister for Works  (Senator Cavanagh)  who has just resumed his seat indicated to the Senate in his own words how in the past when he occupied this seat that I now occupy he used all forms of the Senate to try to frustrate and impede Government legislation. He did not have to tell honourable senators on this side of the Senate of his actions. But I can promise him that those are not the sorts of tactics that we will follow. I want to say to  Senator Cavanagh  that over the years we who were in government until last year always respected his fighting qualities. But for all his fighting qualities and for all his experience both inside and outside the Senate he failed to make an impression on us in defending the Budget today. 
It was rather interesting to listen to  Senator Cavanagh  telling us why subsidies have been removed from many of the items from which this Budget removes them and trying to reconcile his explanation with that given by another rural representative in the Labor Party,  Senator Primmer.  He told us last night that in his view the people in the rural areas were very satisfied with this Budget. He then went on in support of his argument to read to us some comments made by someone in the dairying industry. I say that this Budget is a betrayal of all the aspirations to growth of the major rural industries. The assistance given in this Budget to rural industries has been cut back by record amounts. No account has been taken of the effect such pruning could have if there is a downturn in the rural economy. We heard  Senator Cavanagh  explain how in his view everything in the rural industries at the present time is perfect. But I want to remind the honourable senator that a few short years ago the Premier of Western Australia approached the then Prime Minister seeking further Commonwealth financial assistance for that State. He did this because a survey carried out in Western Australia at that time indicated that if the downward trend in regard to primary industry continued 3,000 farmers would walk off their farms. 

 Senator DRAKEBROCKMANGovernments do not change seasons, droughts and overseas prices. At the present time there is a world wide shortage of wheat and so prices are high. Thank God', says the Government. Producers of wool are reaping some benefit after the last few years when they went through seasons of impoverishing prices. Stocks of wool all over the world had been used up and now there is a demand for it. With the production of wool down, prices have risen. This Government has been lucky that it has come to power at such a time so far at' rural industries are concerned. 
I want to say to the Government that I am not against giving benefits to sections of the community. But I remind it that firstly money has to be earned before it can be handed out as benefits. The industries which will earn the income are the mining industries, the rural industries and the manufacturing industries. Yet the Budget contains repressive provisions in regard to those 3 groups of income earning industries. For the reasons which I have just given, my Party supports the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers).  I ask for leave to have that amendment incorporated in Hansard. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)-  Is leave granted? 
I will adopt the same practice that the honourable senator has adopted and read it. I just wanted to save time. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Leave is not granted. 
-The amendment which the Country Party is supporting states: 
At end of motion add- 
But the Senate is of the opinion that the Government has failed to honour its election promises in respect of defence, per capita grants to independent schools, pensioners, company taxation, the revision of taxation burdens, the home owner, its claim to come to government with malice towards none and its subsequent unfair discrimination against the rural community and its disregard of inflationary pressures and that this Budget therefore deserves condemnation in the Senate as the Budget of a government that has exposed itself as a government of double standards'. 
The Budget has made a mockery of the Government's professed concern for decentralisation by its increase in transport costs. It has become obvious, from the small type in the Budget, that it contains many provisions which were not apparent at first. This is one of the reasons why I, my Party and people generally have become concerned. Because of that concern I looked at some of the Budgets which had been presented previously and at some of the Budget debates. I was very interested to find some remarks on a previous Budget by  Senator Murphy  who was then Leader of the Opposition in the Senate who is now the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Because they so aptly fit this situation I shall quote them for the Senate. I quote from page 256 of Hansard of 26 August 1 970.  Senator Murphy  said: 
My Party has decided to do whatever it can to drive this Government from office. Any government guilty of this Budget is not entitled to hold office. 
What words could be more apt at present?  Senator Murphy  continued with something else which I think is very apt at present. He said: 
This is a convenient time to have an election. An election now for the House of Representatives, even with only the normal half of the Senate due for election before July next, would bring the 2 Houses back into gear and avoid the burden of so many Federal elections. 
I do not think that we could disagree with that statement. Then he said: 
If the Government is confident that the people approve its Budget policies and its performance in other fields, it will not hesitate to accept this challenge by the Australian Labor Party. 
I would substitute 'Australian Opposition' for Australian Labor Party'. They were very apt words. He continued: 
The shock of this Budget was so great that its provisions have percolated through to our citizens more than any Budget of recent times. 
I am sure that Government senators would not disagree with that statement. It is rather apt that the Leader of the Government should have made those remarks which so aptly fit this occasion. 
I wish to place on record some views that I and my Party have about the Budget. After its introduction into this place and after having listened to some of the speeches made by Government members, I believe that we are debating what is virtually an interim Budget. By that I mean that the Government will not be able to continue to ignore the concert of pleas for a lead in the attack on inflation which is this country's biggest single problem. With inflation running so high and rapidly growing worse, the Government will have to impose further monetary measures. Because the passing of time only accentuates serious maladies, these measures will have to be tough. In the light of Sunday's announcement by the Prime Minister, I would say that the first of the axes has fallen. Given the information that Australians are to be caught in a mammoth credit squeeze, we now know that the Budget was a huge confidence trick. 
The editorial in the 'Australian' on Monday summed up the position very aptly with this sentence: 
Last night the country got the bill for the Labor Budget. 
What the Budget did was to give effect to some- I repeat some- of Labor's pre-election promises.  Senator Cavanagh,  during the course of his speech, said that the Government could not implement all its policy promises. It also broke some promises. What the Budget did not spell out was that Australians would have to pay promptly and dearly for the promised measures to be produced. On Sunday the Prime Minister said that inflation must be fought on all fronts, that there was no panacea and no simple solution and that inflation had to be tackled head on. If he intended to wage the fight on all fronts I would congratulate him, but the Government's actions or inactions prove that the Prime Minister was uttering empty words. If the Government intended to fight inflation on all fronts it would do 2 other things. Firstly it would cut its own expenditure. Secondly it would face up to the fact that the control of incomes is an essential ingredient in the control of inflation. What we are getting is a patchwork deal, with the emphasis on hope, and fingers crossed that the new measures will prove to be anti-inflationary. I venture to say that it is much more likely that inflation will continue with no discernible reduction in living costs and with the imposition of further hardships particularly on younger home seekers and on people engaged in our mining and agricultural industries. 
The absence of anti-inflationary policies was not, by a long shot, the only major fault in this year's Budget. I am deeply concerned about the serious erosion of Australia's defence capabilities and the betrayal of the people in the rural industries. The Minister's announcement of a cut in defence expenditure in terms of its relationship to the gross national product blatantly broke a pre-election promise and placed the security of Australia in jeopardy. The Labor Party has been crowing from one end of Australia to the other that its election victory last December gave it a mandate to do just about everything one can conceive. That, of course, is a ridiculous claim. But in whatever areas the Government may genuinely claim a mandate, it certainly was not given a licence to break promises and this, I am sure, it will discover to its own cost. Labor made a crystal clear promise during the election that it would maintain defence expenditure at between 3.2 per cent and 3.5 per cent of the gross national product. Within a few months that promise has been flippantly shrugged aside and we have learned that the percentage will be reduced to 2.9 per cent. The Government can be certain that the people of Australia are taking careful note and registering their disgust not only at this broken promise but also at two or three others equally blatant. 
Any government which downgrades defence priorities is courting trouble. Defence requirements should not be assessed in terms of immediate threat from within or without or in terms of the apparent absence of immediate threat. This Government has said that it cannot see a major threat to Australia in the next 15 years. I am sure we all wish that the international situation was such that every country could opt for token defences on the same premise. Very few can. The majority wisely heed the bitter lessons of the past. I would be foolish for me to challenge any person in this Senate to rise and predict that Australia will never face a military threat. Surely none would make such a claim. But I confess that I wondered whether I should do so when I first saw what was to be done to our defence establishment by the Labor Government. The proposed sweeping cuts leave me no option but to conclude that they were blueprinted by a government which does not envisage that this country will ever come under threat or which underestimates or ignores the need to stand adequately based for an emergency. I wish I could say that the rest of the world, in the light of the Government's announcement, sees Australia as a nation wisely tuning down for prolonged world peace. Of course, I cannot. I believe that most countries will look upon us as a foolhardy country making itself more vulnerable and taking unnecessary chances with the destinies of its future generations. 
In his statement to the Parliament, the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  said that the nation's security was the Government's first responsibility and that Labor policy called for a strong and valid defence capability which would demonstrate beyond all doubt the nation's intention to defend itself and its vital interests; there could be no neglect of defence. He also said it was necessary to assess not only the immediate situation but also the likely situation in the future. I am amazed that after thus outlining the Government's defence philosophy, the Minister went on to devote pages to explaining why he considers there is no threat to Australia. And I was stunned by the penny-pinching reductions he then announced in an area he so rightly refers to as the nation's first responsibility. The Government cannot have it both ways. If it believes that defence is its first responsibility then no volume of argument can save it from the charge that to reduce savagely expenditure on defence equipment and manpower is a contradiction of the principles it purports to hold and follow. 
As I have said, our defence expenditure as a percentage of the gross national product is proposed to be 2.9 per cent. This will be among the lowest of any country in the South East Asian region. The latest figures I have show that of South East Asian countries in 1971, only Indonesia 2.2 per cent, Japan 0.7 per cent, New Zealand 1.7 per cent and the Philippines 1.8 per cent, have a smaller defence to gross national product percentage than ours will be. It must be remembered when comparing those figures that Australia has a much longer coastline than any other country in the area and therefore has to spread its defences wider at greater cost to gain even reasonably adequate security. I quote again from the Minister's statement: 
The modern situation requires Australia to be more selfreliant than in the past, and this is very much in accord with this Government's view of our independent national status. We must have forces in being for surveillance and patrol of the environs of this continent. 
The Minister said also: 
Above all, it will be important to maintain in being sufficient skills and capabilities to allow timely expansion of the forces, should this again become necessary. 
I would have thought these were statements to be uttered by a Minister or a government seeking to justify a buildup of defence facilities. But what follows? Deferment of programs for new ships and aircraft, abandonment of one squadron of Mirage aircraft, a reduction of 2,300 or 3.2 per cent in service manpower and so on. 
I do not think we have felt anywhere near the effects of this. Here I refer to my question yesterday to  Senator Bishop  as Minister representing the Minister for Defence, in regard to future workload at the Commonwealth Aircraft Factories, and I am sure this is going to be a great problem to the Government in the months ahead. The effects will run right through the Services. They will manifest themselves in reduced Service morale, resignations of highly-trained long-term officers who will see a brighter future outside the Services, recruitment problems because of the eroded incentive to join the Navy, Army or the Air Force, reduction of civilian employment opportunities, and the loss to the economy of country cities and towns where Services installations exist. The new defence decisions do this Government great discredit. They are an insult to the previous Government. They betray the people of Australia and reflect the extent of the danger of the left wing influence within the Labor Party. 
-I am criticising the Budget as a whole. As much as I welcome the increased benefits it provides, particularly in the social welfare and education fields, I deplore the imbalance of the total measures. It is true to Labor form that Australia's rural industries have been victimised in this Budget- at a time when many of the industries were getting back on their feet after a crippling series of setbacks. There is no sympathy for the primary producer in this Government, just as there was none when Labor last governed. It is estimated that loss of concessions, reduction in subsidies and bounties, and imposition of new levies and charges will cost primary producers close to $150m, at a time when rural indebtednessneither of the previous speakers I referred to said anything about this- stands at more than $2,000m. Is it any wonder that country people are bitter at their lot and disgusted with many of the policies of the city-based Labor Party. I do not propose at this stage to debate these new hardships at length but I do register a strong protest on behalf of the people in Australia's rural areas. How can the country dweller think other than that he has been betrayed by this Government? He is to pay over 500 per cent more to receive his local newspaper through the post. His petrol bill will not only rise steeply but he will pay more for fuel in relation to city motorists than he did before. He will pay considerably more for his telephone and his air fares to the city, and he is discouraged from investing in new plant for his farm or factory. 
Australia should be taking steps to encourage production not only for her own needs but the needs of the world. But this Government's endeavours, so far as the agricultural industries are concerned, are taking us in the reverse direction. Actions taken on capital expenditure, the investment allowance and the accelerated depreciation provisions will stifle the new investment that is so urgently needed in agriculture and agricultural machinery. There is good reason to believe that rural industry will continue to lose Government benefits under Labor. Apart from the Budget slugs, the Coombs task force believes the following concessions and assistance should be reduced, withdrawn or phased out. Cattle tick control and research; dried vine fruits stabilisation; freight subsidy on breeding stock to the Northern Territory; special rural research grants; superphosphate transport subsidy to the Northern Territory; wool deficiency payments scheme; wool marketing assistance; wool objective measurement research; national water resources development program; investigation of potential irrigable land in the Northern Territory sector of the Ord River scheme; Namoi Weir project; brigalow land development scheme; softwood forestry program; averaging for income tax purposes; estate duty concessions; and indefinite carry-forward or primary producers' losses for tax purposes. 
I want to touch briefly on the Government's new postal and telephone charges. The Labor Government, in typical anti-country fashion, obviously set out to squeeze more money from rural dwellers without regard for the particular difficulties and disabilities associated with living in the remote areas. Earlier this year the Prime Minister announced the appointment of a royal commission to inquire into the Australian Post Office and make recommendations to the Government. The commission naturally was not able to complete its task before the Budget was prepared, yet the Government chose to introduce, without the benefit of the Commission's recommendations, wide-ranging increases in postal and telephone charges. This means that the Government was so frantic to tap every source of revenue that it deliberately usurped the royal commission's responsibilities. The Labor Party, on that score alone, should be severely censured. 
My concern is not only for those engaged in our great food producing industries, but also for the rnining industries. Minerals already are our greatest single export income earner, with the real extent of the national wealth from this source still to come. We as a nation stand to gain immeasurably by continuing to encourage mineral exploration. Yet this Government chooses to stifle the industries by withdrawing existing taxation exemptions from all gold mining profits and from 20 per cent of the profits from certain prescribed minerals. The result is that incentive is rapidly disappearing in what has been and should be a tremendously lucrative industry. The deep concern of the mining industry in Western Australia at this action was manifest in a mammoth protest meeting held at Kalgoorlie on 30 August. I quote from a report of this meeting published in one newspaper. It stated: 
Kalgoorlie has taken the lead in the fight against the taxation measures in the Federal Budget that will bring prospectors big and small to their knees- to elimination. Already Kalgoorlie people have marched with banners. Prospectors, mining men, company men and shire leaders have met with the common bond of saving the industry and their towns. 
Premier Tonkin said he was prepared to take the case to Canberra. Industry, local governing bodies and the State Government each pledged $1,000 for the case, to be prepared by Professor Alex Kerr. The document for Canberra promises to be one of the biggest cases prepared h: this state since the Jarrah-bound secession document was taken to the Privy Council in 1934. 
That report needs no further comment from me. It speaks for itself. The good that the Budget does is more than offset by the bad- and the good will be eroded and the bad accentuated by its failure and subsequent feeble attempts to break the stranglehold of inflation. As a result of this Budget a number of Bills will be brought into this chamber. I will go into them in further detail at that time. I support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers). 
-My question is addressed to the Minister Assisting the Minister for Defence. Is it a fact that one reason for the decision to upgrade Learmonth air base was to enable the Indian Ocean to be covered more effectively by Royal Australian Air Force surveillance aircraft? In view of the concern of people in Western Australia over the Soviet mooring bases in the Indian Ocean, will the Minister give an assurance that Learmonth 's capability will be effectively maintained despite the severe cut in Royal Australian Air Force flying hours imposed by this Government? 
-My question, which is directed to the Minister Assisting the Minister for Defence, follows the question just asked by  Senator Jessop  in regard to yesterday's announcement that a special committee would be set up to look into redundancies in defence industries. I ask the Minister the following question: What is the composition of the proposed committee, when is it hoped that the committee will conduct the examination and how long will it take to complete? I wanted to know whether the Minister could give an estimate of the number of people involved, but having listened to the answer he gave to the previous question I realise that he cannot give the information at this stage. Perhaps he could give us some idea later. Also I ask whether any transfers or retrenchments have already occurred? 
Will the Minister for Primary Industry explain how, with the meat export levy for inspection purposes yielding an estimated $69m over 33 months, there will not be a large surplus of revenue over expenditure, given that meat inspection is estimated in the Coombs report to cost only $12.5m in 1973-74? Is it a fact that revenue from the levy on meat exports for the 33 months is intended to meet inspection costs for 36 months? What will happen to the surplus revenue accumulated over the 33-month period or, indeed, received in any one year? Will the Minister oppose the establishment of a fund and committee to administer the revenue raised in order to ensure that surplus revenue at the end of 33 months is repaid to meat exporters? 
I believe this is a very worthwhile exercise and it certainly is not a time wasting one because I am sure that when each member of the Government returns to his electorate he is inundated with questions about the economy of this country. I am sure that many Government members find it very difficult to explain to the people just what the Government is doing.  Senator Willesee  said in his speech that this Government at the present time is doing some of the things which the previous Government did not do in 23 years. Let me say, first of all, that no member of the previous Government or none of the people of this country ever dreamt in the early 1950s that they would experience the economy that exists in the early 1970s. 
I recognise that the economy of last year or the year before did have a setback but I want to remind the Senate and the people of Australia that this came about because of the rural situation in this country. It still proves to the people of Australia that when there is a setback in the rural industry the economy as a whole feels it.  Senator Willesee  said that the costs we are experiencing at the present time are brought about because last year we tried to bring down a budget that would win favour with the electors. I believe that the troubles we are experiencing at the present time have been brought about by the present Government in its outbidding of the previous Government to win an election. One has only to look at what was said by some of the members of the Labor Party who are now Ministers during that election. For example, the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  was going around his electorate and around Australia as the shadow Minister for Primary Industry saying: 'If Labor gets into power it will give you lower interest rates on long term loans'. He was saying that the Government needed to spend only $18m and it could have a scheme which would give to primary producers long term loans at a rate of interest of 3 per cent. Where has this promise been honoured? The Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  stands in this chamber and says: 'You should not look at the interest rates on loans; you should look at the length of the term'. How long do farmers get in which to repay loans? They get 5 or 8 years, no longer. 
-And what rate of interest do they have to pay? Under the previous Government those engaged in primary industry used to receive a concession in interest rates, but what will they pay now? They will pay 9 per cent, which is nearly 2.5 per cent higher than they paid under the previous Government. The Labor Party made this promise during the last election campaign in an endeavour to outbid the previous Government, and this is why it is in trouble now. 

 Senator Willesee made the point that the previous Government never did anything for the workers of this country. What nonsense! The Government that went out of office on 2 December last always had the welfare of the Australian people at hean. It endeavoured to assist them in every possible way. 
I say to 

 Senator Poyser that no member of the Opposition would oppose increased welfare benefits being given to the Australian people. But before any government can give welfare handouts to the people it first of all has to earn the money, and how does it do that? It does not do it by introducing shorter working hours and granting longer holidays; it does it by achieving a bit of productivity- by people getting in and doing some work on the farms and by producing more meat. If this had been done we would not have the present meat situation. But just when we want to increase the productivity of our cattle industry, what happens? This Government takes over and does away with what it calls some subsidies to the rural industries. Do honourable senators opposite think that the superphosphate subsidy is a subsidy to the rural industries? Of course it is not. 
I would not be surprised at what you took off. You have just about taken everything else off the farmers at the present time. Now you want to impose more taxes in order to stop farmers from exporting meat. Let us have a look at how much meat we export. How much lamb, beef and mutton do we export? 

Milliner should test those figures closely before he thinks that. I remind the Senate that one of the first actions taken by the Opposition was to assist Commonwealth employees to receive extra holidays. The Government introduced into this chamber a Bill which provided for 3 weeks annual leave and that Bill went out of this chamber providing for 4 weeks annual leave to employees. Is that opposing the workers? Of course it is not. Then  Senator Willesee  referred to workers compensation. What was the position regarding this question? The Labor Pary, before taking office, made an election promise that it would increase the benefits provided under the Commonwealth employees compensation scheme. But even the Minister for Repatriation  (Senator Bishop),  who was in charge of the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Bill in this chamber, admitted that when the previous Government increased the benefits under the Commonwealth employees compensation scheme-in, I think, October-it was the best compensation scheme in Australia at the time. I admit that if it was an election promise, this Government would want further to bump up the benefits, and I have no objection to that. I would have no objection either if the States, could they manage it, increased the benefits payable under State employees compensation schemes- each State would have to introduce legislation in order to increase their compensation benefits- and if industry itself could cope with increased compensation benefits. But I know that industry could not cope with it. This is why  Senator Greenwood  referred to the Commonwealth Public Service being a pace-setter. I believe that if the Government has a good scheme it should introduce it, but certainly it should not do so as soon as it gets into office and then try to make the scheme the pace-setter for the rest of the Commonwealth. 
I remind honourable senators that the Government in an endeavour to honour the promises which it made in an attempt to outbid the previous Government during the last election campaign, found itself in difficulties in framing the present Budget. So what did it do? It immediately fooled around with the very security of this country. The first thing which the Government did to cut back on defence expenditure was to say to the Air Force: 'You have to take a cut of 25 per cent in flying hours'. This immediately raised a problem which the Government never foresaw. As aircraft are not flying as often as they were, engine overhauls are not due as regularly as they were. We find the aircraft industry saying: 'We have not got work.' We find  Mr Hawke  coming up here and saying: What about the jobs of my men in the defence works?' Now the Government has to try to find a way out of this situation. 
I am taking part in this debate this afternoon because I believe that the Labor Government stands guilty on 3 major counts concerning the Australian economy. Firstly, I believe that it is guilty of consciously aggravating inflation by its own reckless spending since it came into office. Secondly, it is guilty of ignoring, in its first Budget after governing for only 9 months, the fact that it should take corrective measures to meet soaring inflation. Thirdly, it is guilty of double standards in that following the Budget's green light for record public spending it has introduced measures to restrict severely spending in the private sector.  Senator Willesee  used the argument that the Government inherited inflation. This is utter nonsense. When this Government came to power on 2 December last, the inflation rate was 4.6 per cent, and it was falling. Now there is an inflation rate of 13 per cent. 
-Senator Poyser interjects and says that people are on the dole. Of course there are people on the dole today.  Mr Clyde  Cameron said 200,000 people would be out of work by last February. Where are they? 
-Yes, there was a change in government, but let us see what was said by the Australian Treasurer  (Mr Crean).  Surely he knows something about the economics of this country. He said that there was not inflation. When speaking to a meeting of the Grocery Manufacturers Association in Melbourne on 6 September 1973, after thanking the Association for inviting him to the meeting, he said: 
I find myself, by some strange good fortune, in a very happy and confident situation. 
This is what was said by the Treasurer only 6 or 7 months after he took up that position. Prior to that the Government consisted of 2 members. He went on to say: 
The fact is that, by practically any test we care to make, the Australian economy today is thriving, and the immediate future looks good. In the way of problems, inflation is by far the most serious and immediate difficulty facing economic management in Australia today. We don 't have this problem to ourselves. Inflation is proving to be the most intractable economic problem of western democracies. 
I suppose it is suggested that the problem of the rate of inflation- the Treasurer does not say that it is high- has been overcome in the 7 or 8 months that the Government has been in office. But I say that it has risen from 4.6 per cent to 13 per cent. How will we overcome this problem? Let us have a look at how  Mr Crean  will overcome it. In the same speech he said: 
Although inflation reduces the purchasing power of each dollar, we need to bear in mind that the test of people's real buying power depends on the increase in their own money incomes as well as the increase in prices. In fact the real test as far as you are concerned is whether incomes have risen faster than prices. They have. Over the last decade, average weekly earnings have consistently risen around 3 per cent faster than prices. Even allowing for the fan that income tax reduces the growth of average weekly earnings, the margin has still been favourable. 
Will  Mr Crean  just go on increasing wages and not worrying about inflation as long as wages stay ahead of prices? Ask the housewife what she thinks about this. Many housewives have had an increase in their housekeeping money since this Government came to power. They thought that they had more to spend when they went down to the marketplace; but before they could spend that money they found that the prices of all goods had soared upwards by 5c, 6c or 7c. This is a result of inflation. This is the problem that they have. On top of that, because of some of the corrective measures that the Government is taking the housewife now finds that increased interest rates have added about $2.50 to the repayments on her house. She finds also that she has to pay higher interest rates for the household goods that she has purchased with money borrowed from a bank, life office or hire purchase company. 
I support the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers).  I see no need for the Senate to give up General 
Business tonight. As the Leader of the Opposition said, until today the Opposition has operated in  every  sense with the Government. I draw the attention of the Senate to the fact that not only are we giving up consideration of the reports of standing and select committees but that at a very early stage of this sessional period we already are sitting longer hours to deal with Government Business. I do not think anyone can accuse the Opposition of trying to delay Government Business. I believe the Opposition is entitled to put forward its business during the period allowed for General Business of the Senate. For those reasons, and the reasons stated already by the Leader of the Opposition, I oppose the motion. 
-We had better come back to question time,  Mr President.  Is the Minister for Primary Industry aware that the West Australian Minister for Agriculture recently told the West Australian Parliament that the administering authority for the rural reconstruction scheme in that State had urged farmers to accelerate repayment of loans? Under the terms of the scheme, do administering authorities have the power to request repayments before the due date? If so, do they have the sole power? Have authorities in other States made similar requests? 
Is the AttorneyGeneral aware that the captains of 2 Taiwanese fishing vessels have been held in the Perth lock-up since Monday night because of fishing offences? Is he aware that $8,000 has been imposed in fines and that this amount is required to be paid before their release? Is the Minister aware that public subscription is the only way of raising this money? Has the Minister's Department been consulted in this matter? What action has been taken oris contemplated? 
-Does the 
Minister representing the Minister for Housing recall stating on 11 September in answer to a question by me that ex-servicewomen qualify the same way as ex-servicemen for defence service homes finance? I now ask: Do single exservicewomen qualify, and what are the factors governing their eligibility? Does the provision apply to single women who served in World War II? 
-( Western Australia- Leader of the Australian Country Party in the Senate)- I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That the notice of acquisition of land by the Commonwealth published in Gazette No. 70A of 1 5 June 1 973 under the Lands Acquisition Act 19SS-S6, authorising the acquisition of land by compulsory process for the following public purpose approved by the Governor-General: The planned development and control of the city of Darwin and its adjacent areas (Ex Min No. 642), be void and of no effect. 
Following my question to the Attorney-General yesterday relating to the circumstances surrounding the detention of 2 Taiwanese fishing trawler captains in the Perth lock-up, I now ask the AttorneyGeneral whether the Government has taken, or proposes to take, any action to secure their release from goal or their repatriation to Taiwan? 
The only way in which the Committee can really rest assured is to amend regulation 147 which would mean inserting another clause in this Bill, so that if the PostmasterGeneral makes a decision it has to be tabled in the Parliament. I did not believe that we should go that far today, so I sought an assurance in writing from the Minister. That assurance has been given. A copy of this letter has been sent to  Mr Lynch,  the  Deputy  Leader of the Liberal Party in another place. The proposal in the letter does not cover the Parliament, but it covers my case and my Party's case. 
I do not have any great concern or difficulty about what the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers)  has said but I do say to the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  that for some weeks now we have been sitting for extra hours and this week has been a particularly hard week for all of us. I would not like him to press his luck too much in asking for longer time. But I concur with the Leader of the Opposition. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
What the honourable senator says is correct. I was seeking an assurance and I have received a further assurance since I last spoke in which the Minister says: 
I further agree that any alterations are to be deemed to be reasonable by all parties and to expressly take into account the disabilities of any station. 
That satisfies my query. I have it in writing and I am quite happy to proceed. 
If this Bill is passed, if these charges are brought in at a later date and if they are excessive, we will have no opportunity to oppose them. I wanted an assurance from the Postmaster-General and I believe that he has given it to the Leader of my Party. If the PostmasterGeneral has given the assurance that the opportunity will be there for us to have some say on these charges I am satisfied, and I will not proceed with my proposed amendment. 

 - Mr Acting Chairman, I refer to paragraph 16(2) in Schedule 4 of the Bill. All I want to do is to express, on behalf of my Party, concern at the private line charges for radio stations. I have had some discussions with the officers of the Postmaster-General's Department, and certain assurances have been given to me. I want to take this opportunity to say that if those assurances are not provided I will use the procedures of the Committee to get those assurances. But I understand that the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Murphy)  has something to say and probably he will give me the assurances. 
I address a question to the Minister for Primary Industry. Is it a fact that this Government has offered to release 2 Taiwanese fishing boat captains gaoled in Perth for failure to pay $8,000 in fines if they withdraw an appeal against their conviction? Did the Minister announce that the fines would be waived and their fares to Taiwan paid if the appeal is dropped? Does he agree that this is an interference with the course of justice? Does he also agree that the offer is an unacceptable form of pressure that is likely to be widely interpreted as political prejudice against a country no longer recognised by Australia and therefore damaging to our image abroad? 
I give notice that contingent upon the States Grants (Petroleum Products) Bill 1973 being read a second time I shall move: 
That it be an instruction to the Committee of the Whole on the Bill to consider the insertion of a new section 7A in the Principal Act. 
Hostilities in Middle East 
I ask the 
Minister for Primary Industry: When the 2 Taiwanese fishing boats were arrested off the Western Australian coast on 3 May were 2 other boats boarded within the 12-mile limit? If so, where did those boats come from and why were they not arrested and brought to Western Australian ports? 
I support  Senator Laucke  in making some remarks in relation to the Meat Export Charge Bill and the Meat Export Charge Collection Bill. As the honourable senator has said the purpose of the Meat Export Charge Bill is to impose a levy on meat exported so that the Government may recoup the cost of the inspection of the export meat and its expenditure on a national brucellosis eradication campaign. The Meat Export Charge Collection Bill is complementary to the Meat Export Charge Bill. It provides the machinery necessary for the collection of the export charge. The Australian Country Party believes that the debate on these Bills has not one objective but 3 objectives. The first objective is to impose on the meat industry a levy for meat inspection and disease eradication. The second objective is to divert meat to the domestic market in the hope that the price may be lowered. The third objective is to impose a supplementary tax on profitability in an affluent industry. The rural industries have been slugged and slugged again ever since Labor came to power. This is just one more instance of the Government's determination to squeeze every dollar it can from primary producers so that its welfare policies can be implemented. 
No government in Australia 's history has been so anti-rural in its philosophy. We are told by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  that the major part of the cost of the export meat inspection has been met from Consolidated Revenue since 1927 and that it has become a large item in the expenditure of the Budget. The Minister said that the measure was originally introduced to offset low export prices and that it has been maintained ever since. He said that this is in contrast to the present situation in which world demand for meat is particularly strong and prices are at high levels. We are informed that the cost of the export meat inspection has grown rapidly in recent years, rising from an estimated $5. 3m in 1968-69 to an estimated $11.4m in 1972-73. We were told that a significant part of this increase could be attributed to the need to expand the inspection staff to meet the requirements of overseas countries. In this regard it is to be noted, the Minister points out, that from December 1969 to June 1973 the number of veterinarians and meat inspectors in export establishments has increased from 1,128 to 1,729. The Minister has given a little bit of background to the Senate on this matter. 
It is interesting to look at the report of the Task Force appointed by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam ). One notes in the early pages of this report that the Prime Minister wrote to Dr H. C. Coombs, who is now a consultant to the Prime Minister, on 28 March this year and informed him of the Government's decision to set up a task force. Dr Coombs wrote to the Prime Minister on 24 June this year tendering the report of the Task Force. So the Task Force had a period only from 28 March to 24 June in which to investigate the many matters which it had to investigate. But in the report we noted an item 'Export Inspection Services- Meat'. This service was introduced in November 1927 and the Government bears the cost of export meat inspection under normal budgetary provisions. I want to say a little more about that later. The purpose of the program, according to the Task Force, was defined thus: 
The Australian Government originally agreed to accept responsibility for inspection charges to assist producers in competing overseas and generally to assist and encourage exports. Overseas countries require certification of meat by the national Government. 
That is a rather interesting comment. Under 'Operation of the Program' we see that the Task Force points out: 
The Australian Government provides inspection services at meatworks registered to prepare meat for export, and certifies the export of meat in accordance with the requirements laid down by importing countries. Cost of the services consists almost entirely of salaries, allowances, etc., of veterinarians, meat inspectors, etc. 
I am well aware of the contribution that the Government is making to this inspection service. Information that I have obtained shows that the Department of Primary Industry estimates that the cost over 3 years from 1 July 1973 to 30 June 1976 will be $57m, an average of $ 19m a year. The estimates for Inspection of Commodities, under Division 422.1.01 and 02 and 422.2.01 to 08 provide for a cost of $15,867,000 of which, I understand, 85 per cent is attributable to meat inspection. This means that $13,130,000 is the cost of meat inspection. Therefore all the other inspection services named in the Coombs report -and let me remind the Senate that they cover dairying, eggs, honey, fruit and so on- are costed out of that particular item. So I readily admit that meat inspection takes a very big swag out of that expenditure. But I take the Senate back to the Task Force report which states, that 'the Australian Government originally agreed to accept responsibility for inspection charges to assist producers in competing overseas'. That is the point I make. 
Surely despite the fact that our meat exports have grown very considerably we, as meat producers, must have assistance to compete on markets overseas. I readily agree that because of the tremendous increase in exports we must have a increase in staff. I agree that as a result of the tighter controls wanted by importing countries or by buyer countries we must have sufficient staff to see that there are no holdups in the meatworks. I have already drawn the attention of the Senate to the staff problem. The inspectors have just had a 12.5 per cent rise in wages and overtime is to be paid to these men. Meat inspectors are now making representations to have their hours of work limited to the period from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m. but it must be recognised that the meat industry just cannot work properly to those hours. If those hours are worked a much heavier cost will apply because of overtime. 
The Government says that by introducing these levies it will recoup some of its expenses. I would say that from the meat industry point of view the Government has already recouped a considerable amount of the charges through increased producer taxation. I believe that had it not been for the meat industry during the recession that we went through some 2 years ago the Government would have had to pay more into the wool industry to keep it going. So I believe there was a saving there. 
Having made those points I want to refer to some other matters that come to mind in this case. I have heard a rumour that the Government proposes to establish laboratories in all export meatworks to conduct on-the-spot research. I do not know the background of this rumour but I would hope that the Minister would give us some explanation for it because I believe it needs a great deal of clarification. I want to know whether the cost of installing these laboratories will be a charge which is eventually to be put back on the grower or whether it is to be a charge to public works. I would like some details as to how these laboratories will be staffed and by how many men; where these men are to come from, where they will be housed and who is to bear all these charges. I think something should be said about that. I want to make the point that the meat industry is already paying a number of charges. My colleague from Queensland,  Senator Lawrie,  who is sitting behind me, has drawn my attention to the slaughter tax which the meat industry already has to pay. Those producers who send beasts to the abattoirs receive a deduction from the slaughter tax, of course. 
I want to draw the attention of the Senate to another matter which I think is not so readily recognised. Since July 1 97 1 imports of veal and beef in the United Kingdom have been subject to the application of levies. These levies are determined by the relationship of the United Kingdom market price for fat cattle with the target indicated price- the TIP as it is called. This works in this way: If in any week the United Kingdom market price is below the target indicated price levies are to be put into operation the next week. Therefore if Australia is sending meat to that market and the market price falls below the target indicated price, levies are imposed the following week and Australian beef and veal producers will be up for those levies. The levies are determined by the coefficient applied to the difference between the market price and the target indicated price. While recognising that during the time that these levies have been in force they have not been applied, the Minister did say, I think in answer to a question yesterday, that there has been a considerable fall in beef prices around the world. Some people have said that prices have fallen in some parts of the world by up to 30c a lb. Once that fall occurs in the United Kingdom, Australian beef and veal going to that country could be subject to that levy. That is a further cost which growers may have to meet. 
I want to say something now about brucellosis. I remind the Senate that brucellosis has been the subject of negotiations between the Commonwealth and the States. The States commenced an eradication campaign in January 1970 and Commonwealth assistance was provided to accelerate the States' programs. Payments to the States were made by the Commonwealth from 1 January 1970 to 30 June 1972. Over $4m was provided. Then there were amendments to the meat inspection regulations in the United States of America relating to the disposition of tuberculosis affected cattle and carcasses. These regulations were published in the United States of America on 4 February 1972. Alterations to the inspection procedures in Australian meatworks were required to be completed by 1 June 1972 and these alterations were carried out. The United States requires that all meat from TB affected carcasses or animals which react to a TB test is to be used only in cooked products or is to be removed from abattoirs under conditions of security. 
After consultation by the Department of Primary Industry and by agreement with the representatives of the meat works, the meat exporters and the public abattoir authorities, it was decided to do a number of things. Firstly, it was decided to prohibit from export in any form and to any destination meat from affected carcasses or from animals which reacted to tests. The Australian Meat Board supported all the sections of the meat industry and recommended an acceleration of the TB and brucellosis eradication campaign. It also recommended implementation of a national compensation scheme, that finance be provided by the Commonwealth and that it be payable on all affected cattle and carcasses. 
I have given the Senate the background. The Commonwealth was assisting the industry. But, going further, we find that brucellosis can have a very detrimental effect on the public health of the community. We find that brucellosis can lead to undulent fever in humans. It can be contracted by handling after-birth or by drinking affected milk. What I am trying to say is that the national eradication campaign was being carried out not only to protect the meat industry but to protect the health of Australia. I am saying also that I do not see why the meat producers in this country should be called upon to pay for the prevention of ill health in the general Australian public. I believe that that matter is a responsibility of the Australian Government. 
Under the old system the Commonwealth was to bear all the costs in Tasmania in excess of the first $50,000. That was for 1972-73 and 1974-75. It is my understanding that Tasmania is practically free of this disease. Should any meat be exported from Tasmania the Tasmanian producers will be called upon to contribute to the eradication of this disease which, I understand, in the main has been eradicated from that State. I would like the Minister for Primary Industry to consider those points. 
Having dealt with the background and having pointed out that the Commonwealth and the States had an agreement, we find in this Bill that an amount of 0.6c is to be a brucellosis levy. I would like to know how that money is to be disbursed. Will the Commonwealth contribute that money to the States or will it carry out the campaign itself and bypass the States? I would like some information from the Minister on how he expects that work to be carried out. I have said already that I do not believe that the meat and livestock producers of Australia should be called upon to assist financially disease eradication in Australia. What this will finally boil down to is that the export section will be paying for disease eradication. 
There are 2 other points on which I would like some clarification. Why is it intended to levy a charge on cereals and other ingredients of canned and other forms of part meat export products? This seems extraordinary to me. Also, I find great difficulty in ascertaining why it is intended to disregard for the purpose of the levy whether a product is boned-in or boned-out. It seems very strange that these boned-in and boneless meats should attract the same levy. What one is doing really is paying a levy on the bone itself. 
-I thought this was a meat levy. I too want to give notice- I have already given the Minister a copy of the amendments- that when these Bills come to the Committee stages I shall be moving 3 amendments. I now make copies of my amendments available to the Senate. 
I have circulated an amendment in my name, and I move it as follows: 
After the definition of 'exporter' insert the following definition:  "export meat inspection costs "means all expenses incurred in qualifying meat for export through procedures for which Australia is financially responsible; '. 
I take this procedure because I want to move a further amendment at a later stage whereby all the revenue from this levy would be paid into a trust account. I think a rather unusual practice is provided for in that meat inspection officials of the Department of Pimary Industry are being paid by the Department. That has happened before and it will happen in the future. However, in the conduct of this operation, the meat inspectors work at constantly differing times of the day. As a result they incur overtime. The overime is paid on behalf of the exporters by the Department of Primary Industry but the exporters pay the money to the Department to be paid to the inspectors. With the introduction of this levy the exporters are being slugged again because not only do they have to pay the overtime but also they have to pay the levy. 
I am just telling the honourable senator what happens in practice. 
It is paid by the exporter to the Department to be paid to the inspector. 
I am talking about overtime now.  Senator Laucke  previously was talking about excessive levies. I believe that it would be a good thing if, instead of charging this excessive levy, the Department paid the overtime for the meat inspectors. I believe it would be much better administratively if this could happen. When we look at this question of the meat levy I think most honourable senators think about the paying of wages of the inspection stall. This involves a lot more than paying the wages of the inspection staff. It involves also travelling expenses, subsistence allowance, compensation, clothing allowance, training courses and equipment. In my speech during the second reading debate I referred to the new laboratory that is being established. If producers are to be responsible for meeting the cost of setting up this laboratory, I want to know what return the producers will receive. 
We also find that the levy is to be used for paying any other expenses related to the inspection. I have moved my amendment because I want all costs, including overtime, to be paid out of the levy. I have moved this amendment so that I can move another amendment which seeks to set up a trust account. That is the sole purpose in my moving the amendment in this form. All I am asking is that after the definition of 'exporter' in clause 3 a definition relating to export meat inspection costs should be inserted. I hope that the Committee will support my amendment so that later I will be able to move another amendment which seeks to set up a trust account. 
I am not satisfied with the answer given by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  because in practice the exporter who will be levied this amount will then find himself up for overtime. I do not care what the Minister says, but the cost of overtime will be traced right back to the producer irrespective of who pays it because the exporter will recoup this amount by paying the producer a lesser price for his cattle. The Minister says that the importer can recoup this cost from the buyer overseas. But how will he do this if he sells his exports by forward selling? So to my mind the cost will fall on the producer. All I am trying to get on the statute book is a clear definition of who is responsible for the payment of these moneys because later when we set up the trust account we will want to know, as  Senator Wright  has already indicated, who will be responsible under proposed new clause 4C of the Bill. 
The second amendment to the Bill is on page 2, clause 3, line 9 and it has been circulated. I move: 
After the definition of 'month ' insert the following definition:  "the Charge Act "means the Meat Export Charge Act 1973.' 
If one turns to page 2 of the circulated amendments one will see in clause 4C (2) the words: 
The amounts to be fixed from time to time for the purposes of sections 6 and 7 of the Charge Act shall be determined after consideration of the moneys then standing to the credit of the Meat Export Charge Trust Account. 
This is a formal motion defining what I mean by the Charge Act. 
I am quite agreeable to that course. As I stated when I first rose to my feet in relation to these amendments, the first 2 amendments depend on the third amendment which seeks to set up a trust account. The whole exercise involved here is to set up a trust account for the moneys which come by way of levy. Tonight there has been a good deal of argument as to how much this amount will be. The money will be collected over a period of years. This afternoon I understand that the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  when replying to the debate on the second reading stated that these moneys would not be paid into Consolidated Revenue. That is what I am trying to avoid. If the Minister is of that opinion then I believe that these moneys should be paid into a trust account. 
I know that there is within the Department of Primary Industry the idea that the Senate Estimates Committees have the opportunity of looking at these moneys, at the revenue which comes in and at the money which is paid out, and that if honourable senators are concerned with this section they can take the opportunity of asking questions of the Minister or the officials of the Department. But I do not believe that we should go through that exercise. I understand that there has been an investigation by the Parliamentary Joint Committee of Public Accounts. It made a recommendation, back in 1957 in its thirtyfourth report, on trust funds. The report stated: 
When these accounts merely act as a reserve against unforseen expenditure (that rightly should have been anticipated), or otherwise to cushion the effects of bad estimating, we think them undersirable. 
If the Government wants to do that it may do so but I believe those circumstances do not apply in this case. What I am suggesting in the 3 amendments I am moving is that the moneys which come in by way of levy should be paid into a special trust account. 
It has been said that a trust account of this type would not be the same as other trust accounts which have been set up by the Department of Primary Industry. But I believe that in the fisheries section there is a trust account which is similar to the one which we propose to set up here. I suggest to the Minister that he consider this amendment. He indicated this afternoon when replying to the second reading debate that these moneys will not go into Consolidated Revenue. I suggest that a trust account is the place for them. What I am asking is that I be given leave by the Committee to take amendents Nos 2 and 3 together. 
I move: 
That the following new clauses be added to the Bill: 4a. ( 1 ) An account is hereby established to be known as the Meat Export Charge Trust Account. 
The Meat Export Charge Trust Account is a Trust Account for the purposes of section 62a of the Audit Act 1901-1969. 4b. There shall be paid into the Meat Export Charge Trust Account- 
all amounts being charges levied on meats exported from Australia; and 
b ) all penalties levied under section 7 of this Act. 4c. (I) Moneys standing to the credit of the Meat Export Charge Trust Account may be expended with the approval of the Minister in payment of export meat inspection costs. 
The amounts to be fixed from time to time for the purposes of sections 6 and 7 of the Charge Act shall be determined after consideration of the moneys then standing to the credit of the Meat Export Charge Trust Account. 4d. (1) The Minister shall, as soon as practicable after 30 June 1974, and after each succeeding 30 June, cause a report to be prepared on the operation of this Act and be laid before each House of the Parliament. 
For the purposes of sub-section ( 1 ), the period that commences on the commencement of this Act and ends on 30 June 1 974, shall be deemed to be a year. '. 
In view of the remarks which the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  has just made I want to quote to the Senate from a document that I have in my hand which was sent to me under a covering letter from the Farmers' Union of Western Australia. It is headed 'Submission on Meat Export Levies'. In the last paragraph on page 4 the Union states: 
The Farmers' Union objects to the trade and, therefore, the producer having to pay the 0.6c a lb levy on beef exports which has been imposed to recoup the Government the cost of the national tuberculosis and brucellosis campaign. 
That is the campaign to which the Minister just referred. The submission continues: 
Because of the situation with these diseases in Western Australia, this State has particular reason to object to the levy. 
The Minister said that no one objected to it. This submission has been sent to most members of Parliament. I believe that some Government supporters from Western Australian would have it and probably it also was sent to the Minister. The submission went on to state: 
This State has had a program of tuberculosis and brucellosis eradication for a number of years and it is advanced on other mainland States in this program. The Farmers' Union would prefer that Western Australia be left out of the Commonwealth scheme and that growers contribute instead to the State scheme through the State Cattle Compensation Fund, at a higher level to compensate the State program for any loss of funds. 
If this submission does not mean that growers object to this proposition I do not know what it means. The submission is signed by J. E. Gardiner, President of the Meat Section, Farmers' Union of Western Australia. Yet the Minister stood here and said that the growers will suffer if they do not agree to his proposed program. 
I wish to say a few words about this Bill. Normally  Senator Cotton  would have led in this debate. Because I shall move an amendment later, he has asked me to speak on his behalf as well as on behalf of the Australian Country Party. The purpose of this Bill is to amend the States Grants (Petroleum Products) Act 1965-1969. The Act provides the legal basis for the petroleum products subsidy scheme whereby a Commonwealth subsidy is paid in relation to the distribution and sale of certain petroleum products in country areas. The objective of the scheme is to reduce rural costs by effecting a significant degree of equalisation between city and country wholesale prices on such petroleum products. Back in 1965  Sir John  McEwen promoted the idea of a national uniform petrol price. The then Government agreed to that as a first step towards this objective to introduce a minimum variation between petrol prices in city and non-metropolitan areas. Since that time the differential has been reduced and at the present time it is approximately 3.3c a gallon. The Budget raised this differential from 3.3c a gallon to 5c a gallon. 
This is a restrictive Bill with a very restricted title. It amends section 6 of the States Grants (Petroleum Products) Act. Because it is confined to that, all we can do is repeal section 6. The Bill deals only with this clause. If I wanted to amend the Bill all I could do would be to move an amendment to leave out section 6 of the Act. All section 6 does is fix the subsidy rates on the basis of the 1969 costs and circumstances. Section 6 has to be repealed in this case to enable the subsidy rates to be updated in the light of current transport and distribution costs and the new subsidy margin. All that is very well. If we take section 6 out of the Act there is nothing to prevent the Minister at some future date, should he want to vary the subsidy rates as they now exist, just to gazette them. We in the Parliament would then have no control whatsoever over whether that should be allowed or disallowed. So after the completion of the second reading debate on the Bill I want to put into force the notice of motion I gave this morning. I will do this with the good graces of the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Murphy).  He is allowing me to insert this extra clause to make it obligatory on the Minister to table in the Parliament any changes in the rate of subsidy which may be made at a future date, so that we can either allow or disallow the change according to how we see the position at that time. 
-That is all that I am doing by this amendment. Therefore, as I cannot do anything further I would like the Senate to reach the stage in its proceedings where I could move the amendment. 
I ask for leave of the Senate to move that it be an instruction to the Committee of the Whole to consider the insertion of a new section 7a in the principal Act. I gave notice of this this morning. Really, it should not come into operation until tomorrow, but the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  has given me his blessing to go ahead with it, if I may say that. 
-Therefore, to carry out the procedure, I ask for leave to move a motion that relates to the notice of motion I gave this morning. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Davidson)-Is  leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
I move: 
That the Committee of the Whole be instructed to consider the insertion of a new section in the principal Act. 
To save time on this matter I have circulated a copy of the amendment which I will formally move. I told the Senate why I was doing this when I spoke previously. So I leave the position at that. 
I move: 
1 ) After clause 3, add the following new clause:- "4. After section 7 of the StatesGrants (Petroleum Products) Act 1965-1969 the following section is inserted:- 7a. (1) In this section, "amendment", in relation to the schedule to the scheme in relation to a State, includes the substitution of another schedule for that schedule.  '(2) The provisions of section 48 and 49 of the Acts Interpretation Act 1901-1973 (other than paragraphs (a) and (b) of sub-section (1), sub-section (2) and sub-section (6) of the first-mentioned section) apply, by force of this section, to amendments of the schedules to the schemes in relation to the States in like manner as those provisions apply in relation to regulations. 
Where an amendment of the schedule to the scheme in relation to a State is disallowed, or is to be deemed to be disallowed, under a provision of the Acts Interpretation Act 1901-1973 as applied by sub-section (2), the schedule has effect as if the amendment had been revoked with effect from and including the date of the disallowance. '. ". 
In the Title, leave out "repeal section 6 of", substitute "amend". 
 Is the 
Leader of the Government in the Senate aware that some State Premiers today will seek a special Premiers Conference to consider ways to fight inflation? Is it a fact that at the Premiers Conference last May a working party of Federal and State Treasury officials was set up to devise anti-inflation methods and that no further meeting was held to consider the proposals? Would not an early special conference of Premiers be the most likely way to get a satisfactory plan and, with it, the necessary nation-wide co-operation to launch an anti-inflation attack? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Overseas Trade. Is the Minister aware that a transmission manufacturer, Twin Disc (Pacific) Pty Ltd, has announced that it will cease manufacturing because of the Australian dollar revaluations and the 25 per cent tariff cut? Is the company's plant located at Albury, the Government's first growth centre? How does the Government reconcile the closure of these operations with its plans to accelerate the development of the Albury- Wodonga area? 
-Brockman asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
1 ) Will the Minister explain how, with the export levy on meat for inspection purposes yielding an estimated $69m over 33 months, there will not be a large surplus of revenue over expenditure, given that meat inspection is estimated in the Coombs Report to cost only$12.5min 1973-74. 
Is it a fact that Government revenue from meat exports for 33 months is intended to meet inspection costs of meat for 36 months. 
What will happen to surplus revenue accumulated over the 33 month period or, indeed, received in any one year. 
Will the Minister oppose the establishment of a Fund Committee to administer the revenue raised, in order to ensure distribution back to exporters of surplus revenue at the end of the 33 month period. 
Is the Minister for Primary Industry aware of the deep concern among primary producers about the shortage of farm implements and steel fencing materials? Does he know that in Western Australia there is a 6-month delay on the supply of ordinary fencing wire? Has this matter been brought to the attention of the Minister? Has any investigation been made of it? Can he give the Senate some assurance that the supply situation will improve in the near future? 
My question is addressed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. He will know that the Australian States are united- in a federal Commonwealth which is called the Commonwealth of Australia. Why does the present Government, the Prime Minister in particular, constantly use the title 'Australian Government' rather than Commonwealth Government*? Is it because the Federal Government begrudges. the States the powers which they possess under the Constitution? Is it a title adopted prematurely by the Federal Government in anticipation of the time when the Australian Labor Party hopes to have a single government for Australia? Is it one thing to use the title 'Australian Government' in correspondence and conversation, and quite another thing' to change physically the title on Commonwealth buildings, as this Government has done? 
-Has the attention of the Minister for Primary Industry been drawn to a statement that the Australian Workers Union will ban the export of merino rams regardless of the result of the wool growers' referendum on the issue? Is it futile to conduct a referendum sponsored by a national Government, involving a tremendous volume of work and high overall cost if a trade union says that it will ignore the industry's wishes? In view of this, and in view of many other recent instances of trade union intervention in national affairs, is there good reason to believe that the unions are taking it upon themselves to govern Australia? Who does run this country? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. In view of the Government's new contract with a South Australian firm for the supply of 200,000 concrete sleepers for the Commonwealth Railways, I ask the Minister whether he or any other Minister received representations from the Western Australian timber industry pointing out the importance of the railway sleeper market to the timber industry. Has the Western Australian Minister for Agriculture expressed concern at any trend away from the use of jarrah sleepers? If so, what assurances, if any, have been given by the Government to the timber industry in relation to what would constitute a serious loss of market? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry. Can the Minister say whether the special wheat quota of 20 million bushels will be sufficient to enable all wheat from this year's harvest to be taken in by the Australian Wheat Board and receive the first advance payment? Can he reassure individual growers in Western Australia, where the crop is expected to be a record, that neither quota limitations, either State or individual, nor State handling facilities will prevent all wheat being received and paid for? 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for Transport detail briefly to the Senate the procedures adopted in search operations such as the one conducted for the ill-fated 'Blythe Star' and its survivors? Will he consider initiating a complete review of sea-search procedures involving all governments, organisations and groups likely to be concerned in similar operations in the future? 
I ask the 
Minister representing the Treasurer whether his attention has been drawn to a statement by the Assistant General Manager of the Bank of New South Wales that the Federal Government is exacerbating inflation in Australia by failing to curb its own expenditure. Has this view been expressed by many other prominent figures in the banking and economic fields, including officers of the Reserve Bank of Australia and the Treasury? If the Minister believes that these critics are wrong, when does he expect a downturn in the rate of inflation and what will cause its fall? 
-While recognising the authority of the Minister for Primary Industry under the Wheat Industry Act, I ask him: Why does he expect the Australian Wheat Board on behalf of growers to accept 25 per cent of the risk when he is exercising a judgment on behalf of the Government which overrides the commercial judgment of the Board? Why should he not accept full responsibility for any default in these circumstances? Who owns the wheat- the growers or the Government? 
The Australian Country Party strongly opposes this Bill, which sets out to introduce a new basis for the assessment of compensation for land acquired in the Australian Capital Territory by the Commonwealth Government. My Party voices its opposition because the Bill seeks to circumvent the 
Australian Constitution by scoffing at a long accepted lands acquisition principle, and because it places land owners in the Territory at a disadvantage compared with those in the States. The principle I refer to is laid down in section 5 1 of the Constitution. Placitum (XXX 1) of this section clearly states that when the Commonwealth acquires land it should pay for that land on just terms. I submit that there is injustice rather than justice in the Government's proposal regarding acquisition of land in the ACT. Furthermore the provisions of the Bill are made retrospective, so that any current claims over past acquisitions are rejected virtually by the stroke of a legislating pen. 
The present position is that compensation for Australian Capital Territory land is determined in line with the terms of the Lands Acquisition Act 1955-66, which obliges the Commonwealth to take into consideration the 'just term' provision of the Constitution. It is obligatory on the States to heed this provision. Why should the Commonwealth be permitted to sidestep the provision through this piece of legislation? 
The Government, we are told, has concluded that its rapid fall from popularity in the electorate is due to inadequate publicity for its actions and achievements. The truth is that a more widely and more deeply absorbed exposition of the vast majority of the Labor Government's actions in the past 10 months could lead only to a more violent fall from popularity than the opinion polls show to have already occurred. In this Bill the Government is trying to get off the hook. It is trying to free itself of the obligation to make a fair and just settlement when it compulsorily acquires land. The effect is that the occupier will not be compensated on the basis of the land's potential for subdivision into less than 40- acre lots and in addition will not be compensated for a business other than a rural business. Because of these provisions land owners are not entitled to be compensated for deposits of sand, gravel, blue metal, and so on or even minerals which are part of the potential value of the land. 
The 'just term' provision of the Constitution has in the past been implemented and accepted in the Australian Capital Territory. Except in one case, where the lessee has sought determination by the courts, lease owners accepted compensation assessed on a basis of the price paid for 40-acre blocks in adjoining shires in New South Wales. The effects of proposed development of their leases was fully explained before acquisition and lease-back arrangements were negotiated where development requirements did not preclude it. Only in one case did the owner take his compensation and leave his land. In all other cases they remained as lessees. 
The Senate should not be stampeded into changing a law which was designed to make it mandatory on the Government to acquire land on a give and take rather than a take-all principle. This is another classic example of Labor attempting to trample over people to get what it wants, and instances of that sort of socialistic government can be counted in dozens since last December. The Country Party sees this Bill as the thin edge of the wedge on land acquisition. The objectionable principles it contains can be expected to be repeated in legislation that will be introduced to facilitate land takeovers in the Commonwealth's planned growth centres. The Bill spells out a warning for all land owners in those areas. The Bill also could forshadow a situation whereby the Whitlam Government could manoeuvre itself into a position to take over not only land, at a price suitable to the Government and the Government alone, but also to take over mineral resources in the Northern Territory. The Australian Country Party opposes this Bill. 
-I ask the 
Attorney-General: Does he propose shortly to introduce several Bills dealing with human rights? Should the Government's concern, for the rights of the people come into question in the light of the experience of 2 Taiwanese fishing boat captains convicted on charges of illegal fishing off the north-west coast? Is the AttorneyGeneral aware that the captains when released from gaol accused the Australian Government of treating them unjustly? Was this accusation based on the fact that they were detained for 1 87 days, had their boats confiscated and had an offer by the Government of their fines being waived on condition that they dropped appeals against their convictions? 
I am indebted to the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  for making that information available, but unfortunately he did not make it available to us before this point of time so that we would have an opportunity to study it. When the Meat Export Charge Collection Bill was before the Senate recently, the Opposition parties- and I think I speak on behalf of the 3 of them, although the other parties will have an opportunity later to put their point of view- were concerned about the setting up of the Trust Account. Although we had available to us the talents of certain officers of the Senate, we did not have available to us the talents of the officers of the Department who could have told us how this amendment should have been worded 
I think that the Minister recognises what was in the minds of Opposition senators when we moved the amendment. I believe that the amendment now presented by the Minister will adequately protect the purposes for which the money is being collected. At the same time, I also believe that it will enable the inspection services which are so necessary to be maintained, and the eradication program against brucellosis and tuberculosis to be extended in a manner in which all honourable senators believe it is necessary to extend it. Therefore, I and my Party accept the amendment now presented by the Minister. 
I do not want to join issue with the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt).  I agree in principle with what he said. I still think that there were . different figures. I will have to check that. However I am not saying that the Minister is wrong. There was opposition within the industry to the proposition put up by the Minister. He will recall that at the time of this debate he said that there was no opposition within the industry. I want to make clear that there was opposition within the industry. I think now that we have all agreed that this Bill will be of benefit to the industry. We have come to common ground and I am glad to see it. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Resolution reported; report adopted. 
I thank the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  for giving us some factual figures. When Opposition senators raised this point during the earlier debate in the Senate the Minister kept reassuring us that the figures he was putting forward at that time were the figures that we should accept. Honourable senators on this side of the chamber did not think so. Now that we have had a look at another set of figures I and other members of the Country Party are willing to go along with what the Minister has said. 
-Senator Rae, in opening his remarks ibr the Opposition spoke of the interest of parents, teachers and other people in education throughout Australia. He then went on to speak of the number of telegrams and communications which he had received from various sections of the community on this matter. He spoke of his inability by reply to all because of the lack of information which was given by some of these people in regard to the sender's address, name, and so on I have also received a large number of communications. I have been unable to reply to many of them for the same reasons as  Senator Rae  gave. I ask these people to bear with me in my problem.  Senator Wheeldon,  who has just spoken for the Government, said that if the amendments proposed by the Opposition were carried they would so change the character of the Schools Commission Bill that the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  had every right not to go on with the Bill. I believe that that is a matter for those who are concerned with this measure because all of us have a view on the matter and it depends on which side of the Senate one is sitting. I do not believe that this is so. I believe that the Minister has to face up to political life and to the practicalities of politics in this matter.  Senator Wheeldon  also went on to talk about the allocation of funds by the previous Government compared with the allocation of funds by this Government. I say that $ 144.6m of the total amount to which  Senator Wheeldon  referred is really a pure shuffle from the State area into the Commonwealth area. It does not mean $ 1 more as far as education is concerned. 
-My colleague interjects and says that that is out of $404m. Even in the most generous mood in which I can be, to me this is only an increase of 59 per cent in what the Government is doing. It is a little larger increase than that of the previous Government over the 2 previous years when it was about 40 per cent.  Senator Wheeldon  talked about increases of funds. I remind him further that the increased funds for universities and colleges of advanced education are very small amounts and that those increases were approved by the previous Government last year. In all they represent a very significant contribution to the total budget. So  Senator Wheeldon  in saying that the Labor Government is responsible for giving such a large amount to education is really working a big hoax. In regard to the Schools Commission the Australian Country Party does not oppose its establishment. But it does have reservations about the Bill as it is presented particularly those clauses which deal with the Commission's structure. 
The present Government, when its members occupied the opposition benches last year, gave notice of its intention, should it win the election, to bring down legislation for a permanent Schools Commission. We all know that soon after its election the Government appointed an Interim Committee for the Australian Schools Commission charged with the responsibility of identifying deficiencies in government and nongovernment schools and to suggest how these should be overcome. We know also that the Interim Committee has done that work and furnished a report. My party has no quarrel with that action and approves of the recommendations made. Elevation of education standards and facilities always has been given very high priority by the Country Party. We agree that a properly structured national commission of experts should be the means by which that elevation can be achieved. 
Having said that, I want to comment on an advertisement in today's Press which urges, in a manner which I consider verges on a breach of privilege, Opposition Parties in the Senate not to interfere with this Bill. The advertisement is sponsored by the Australian Teachers Federation, the Australian Council of State Schools Organisations, the Australian Council of Salaried and Professional Associations, the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the Australian Union of Students. I do not believe that this reflects credit on those organisations. It is political pressure of an objectionable kind. 
I have never ever seen them. Do not interject too early. Let me say- I think all honourable senators will agree with me- that the Senate has a responsibility to review legislation. It is the duty of the Opposition to express its point of view on all legislation in the interests of" sound and balanced government for the people of Australia. This is a highly important piece of legislation touching on all elements of primary and secondary education and affecting every child and every parent in Australia. It therefore requires the closest examination by the Senate to ensure that we, as the national Parliament's House of review, introduce a measure that will prove to be of most benefit to all concerned and have the widest approval. That is why my Party believes that the foreshadowed amendments are necessary. 
The Commission, we are told, is being set up to advise the Government. But no one should be fooled into thinking, by reason of the fact that it is an advisory body only, that its influence will not be great. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  said in his second reading speech that the Government sought by the proposed legislation to establish an official impartial body to examine, identify and determine the needs of students in government and non-government schools at the primary and secondary level. Having done that, it will advise on the best means of meeting those needs and the resources required, including the establishment of buildings and equipment and the provision of teachers and other staff. The Minister told us also that the Commission will advise on financial assistance, including the amount, allocation and conditions upon which the assistance should be granted. These are indeed very wide powers, so wide that the structure of the Commission is of paramount importance if it is to have the chance it warrants to succeed and satisfy. Yet the Bill does not even hint at the composition of the Commission. It does not say which elements of education shall be represented. 
We are told in clause 16 of the Bill that the Minister may, if he sees fit, establish advisory boards in the States and in the mainland territories as a means by which suggestions, proposals and information can be communicated to the Commission. This is altogether too vague and indecisive. It certainly does not satsify my desire that the Commission, in order to undertake a vital role in the controversial field, be represented by all elements. Like so many other proposals put forward by this Labor Government, this Bill leaves the way open to centralised control from Canberra. We say that this possibility should be removed. The Minister said in his second reading speech that the States would retain responsibility for administering their own education programs. I believe that the States would feel much happier about their own continuing role in the decision-making areas of education in which they have done so much in the past if the Federal Government were to give them a voice in the Commission itself. Maybe it is the Government's intention to give them a voice. We do not know. The Bill certainly does not say. Therefore, whilst I commend the Minister and the Government for making more money available for education, including teaching, the Bill as presented suggests that the Government is prepared to give on one hand and to take on the other. I fear that there is a grave risk that the States will be told what to do and how to do it. The Opposition's amendments seek to remedy the omission I have mentioned. 
I might say that these amendments proposed by  Senator Rae  have been considered very deeply since the honourable member for Wannon in another place,  Mr Malcolm  Fraser, moved amendments in the House of Representatives. I think that the Senate will recall that at the time the honourable member moved those amendments he said that they were prepared in a hurry because the Minister for Education had introduced the Bill into the House of Representatives at very short notice. 
I am told by way of interjection from  Senator Davidson  that the Minister admitted this. But the honourable member for Wannon indicated at that time to the House of Representatives that the amendments would be polished up considerably when the Bill came before the Senate. I can say that very deep and long consideration has been given to the amendments which  Senator Rae  has circulated to honourable senators. I believe that adoption of the amendments will ensure that the Commission is sufficiently representative of interests closest to education in Australia. In that event, it has a chance to succeed. For these reasons, the Country Party will support the second reading of this Bill and will support the amendments to be moved by  Senator Rae. 
by leave- I support the view of the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers).  Members of the Australian Country Party are free to speak as they think fit in regard to the site of the new and permanent parliament house, the proposed joint sitting, and the proposition that  Senator Wright  has put forward in his Bill. 
-Does the 
Minister for Primary Industry recall that in his reply to  Senator Prowse  last Tuesday on the subject of the Minister's directive to the Australian Wheat Board the Minister said:  . . the long established tradition of denying the Australian wheat grower markets to which he is entitled will not continue. 
Is it not a fact that the Wheat Board has sold, at world market prices, all wheat entrusted to its care? 
As an original member of the Joint Select Committee on the New and Permanent Parliament House, I, like many other senators, have seen this matter go on and on and never reach a stage of finality. Today  Senator Murphy  has moved a motion. During the course of his speech to the motion that we should have a joint meeting, I asked him by way of interjections that if a decision was reachedthere must be a decision reached at the meetingwhat would then be the situation. The Leader of the Government indicated that if the decision was the way he believed it would be, it would be an indication to his Government to go ahead with a joint parliamentary meeting. 
A decision has been reached in another place for a particular site and that site happens to correspond with the wishes which the Senate has expressed on many occasions in the past. I am not one of those who favours, as  Senator McAuliffe  says, a meeting down in the refreshment rooms of this Parliament. 
-I am not in favour of that,  Senator McAuliffe. 
Well, senator, you can meet anywhere you like, but I will not meet with you. I want to meet in this chamber. I am a member of this chamber and I want to see this chamber make the decision. If we make a decision along the lines that we made the previous time when we formed a very strong view on a particular site, with the 2 houses indicating that they want a particular site, it must be an indication to the Government and to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  of this country to do something about it. Why wait and have a joint meeting? If we cannot go along with the amendment of  Senator Prowse  I will fall back on  Senator Wright's  proposed legislation although I do not agree with the particular site he has indicated. I would have to move amendments. Why should we have to go through all this rigmarole when the Senate today can give an indication of the site that it wants. 
Yes, it was done before. 
-For the very reasons which the honourable senator gave. He wants to kick aside a few chairs in the refreshment rooms of this Parliament House and hold a meeting. There are certain constitutional factors to be taken into consideration. If there is to be a joint meeting between the 2 Houses we will have to think along those lines. Some honourable senators say that that does not matter. 
Is this or is this not a Parliament? That is my thinking on this matter. I am only expressing my view. Because of the views I have expressed, I will be supporting  Senator Prowse  's amendment. 
-My question is addressed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Is it a fact that the Government is considering plans to spend $24m on a new Australian embassy complex in Tokyo, including especially $ 14m on an extra 4.5 acres of land? If so, will the Minister tell the Senate why such a costly project is necessary? Would this amount of money not meet a considerable portion of the cost of a new and permanent parliament house? 
Is the 
Leader of the Government in the Senate aware that his Government's promise of open government is being questioned as a result of the refusal of Ministers to give details about the composition of existing interdepartmental committees? Why should Ministers not inform the Parliament of which interdepartmental committees their officers are members? Why is it wrong to identify the existence of a committee or its membership, even if there is international or commercial involvement, when its findings are not made public? In view of the Government's election promise, will he explain the reason for secrecy? 
-Is the Minister representing the Treasurer aware that the Premier of Western Australia said this week that he had not been notified of any decision by the Government to proceed with its Budget proposal to withdraw income tax concessions to the gold mining industry? Was the Premier a member of a deputation which came to Canberra recently to seek a continuation of the concessions? Why was the rejection of the deputation's submission communicated to the industry but not the Premier? Is this another example of the Federal Government bypassing the States, or is it merely another instance of the Government's bad manners? 
The purpose of the Senate (Representation of Territories) Bill is to provide senatorial representation on the basis of 2 senators each for the Australian Capital Territory, including the Jervis Bay Territory, and the Northern Territory. The Bill proposes that such senators will have the same powers, immunities and privileges as State senators and that both senators for each Territory will be elected under a system of proportional representation at the time of each general election of members of the House of Representatives, provided that the first election of the Territory senators will be held at the time of the next election of State senators if such is held prior to a general election of the House of Representatives. I want to say that the Country Party's opposition to the proposals set out in this Bill was made abundantly clear when the original Bills were debated in the Senate last June. The present Bills- the Senate (Representation of Territories) Bill and the Representation Bill- are in identical form to the original Bills and no fresh evidence has been brought forward by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  which might cause my Party to reconsider the stand which it took in the Senate at that time. In fact, the second reading speech of the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  delivered in another place on 25 September 1 973 was a very feeble, pathetic and in many parts objectionable speech. The purpose of any second reading speech is to detail the proposals set out in the Bill and to state why those proposals should be adopted. I think that honourable senators look to the second reading speech for information on clauses in the Bill. But on this occasion the Minister chose to depart from tradition. He devoted half of his speech to an attack on those parties opposed to the provisions in the Bill, and particularly the Country Party. He said in part that the Country Party's opposition to the Bill in the Senate was a display of political gymnastics based not on facts, principles or reason, but straightout political opportunism. That sort of comment should not be made in a second reading speech when a Minister is explaining a Bill. If the Minister cares to read the speech I made when the original Bill was before the Senate on 7 June he will see that facts, principle and reason were the very basis of the Country Party's objection to granting senatorial representation to the Australian Capital Territory and Northern Territory. I pointed out then, and I do so again, that the Senate is a States House and the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory are not States. I said that the Australian Capital Territory, in particular, was unlikely to become a State in its own right. I also pointed out that the Australian Capital Territory, apart from having a member in the House of Representatives who is a Minister, is able to wield great influence through the Joint Parliamentary Committee on the Australian Capital Territory which is composed of members from both Houses of Parliament. No State has a similar committee working for its interests. 
I am looking at the history of Australia; I am not worried about Alaska. When I spoke previously I made the point that the first progressive move to greater parliamentary representation for the Northern Territory surely must be the establishment of a House of Assembly for that Territory. This would effectively give the people a voice that they seek in their own affairs. It certainly would not bring Territory senators into this place to try to get support for Government proposals such as that relating to land acquisition which was considered recently by the Senate. 
I repeat that the Senate is a States House and we are here to represent those States. To grant the mainland Territories representation in the Senate is seen by the Australian Country Party as the thin edge of the wedge in the destruction of the independence of the Senate and perhaps of the Senate itself in the long run. Sooner or later, if the proposals contained in the Bill are adopted, two things will happen. Firstly, the Australian island territories will press their claim for Senate representation, and who would deny them the right of admission once the doors were open? I foresee that in the long term in such an eventuality the importance of the Senate would diminish. Secondly, the 60 State senators would be elected for a period of 3 years instead of the present 6 years to tie in with elections for the House of Representatives. I say that because this Bill proposes that the election of Territory senators take place at the same time as elections for the House of Representatives. 
-Yes, because one thing leads to another. The thin edge of the wedge is apparent to the Country Party in these proposals. We make no apologies for continuing our opposition to them. The people of Australia do not need long memories to be able to acknowledge the worth of the Senate both as a States House and a House of Review. Many Australians have been thankful for the existence of the Senate in the months since Labor came to power. I am sure that they do not want any meddling with the independence of the Senate or any threat to its continued existence. 
-One can read of it in the paper every day. The Australian Country Party was opposed to this Bill on the last occasion when it was before the Senate. It has seen no new evidence in the second reading speech of the Minister to alter its view. It is still opposed to the Bill. 
-Will the Minister representing the Treasurer confirm reports that the Australian Labor Party Caucus yesterday overruled the Treasurer and voted to retain tax exemptions on gold mining profits? What were the arguments advanced by the gold mining industry that convinced the Government it should postpone its Budget plan to drop the exemptions? 
-My question is directed to the Minister assisting the Minister for Defence. Has a request for a royal commission into Australia's defence requirements been brought to the Minister's attention? Was the request made by the Thirty-Niners Association of Australia in an attempt to ensure that defence efficiency and preparedness have not been avoided or overlooked? As this is a very serious call by the Association, can the Minister inform the Senate what consideration has been given by the Government to the request and whether a reply has been sent to the Association? 
-My question, which I address to the Minister for Customs and Excise, refers to a statement on the export of kangaroo products which was made by the Minister for the Environment and Conservation yesterday in the House of Representatives. Arising from that statement I ask: Is it a fact that, despite the lawful destruction of certain species of kangaroo under the Vermin Act of Western Australia and a strictly controlled harvesting program, kangaroos have reached plague proportions in some areas of Western Australia? Does the harvesting program have the support and commendation of the Western Australian Government and, in particular, of the State Department of Fisheries and Fauna? Has that Department submitted a management program which the Minister for the Environment and Conservation considers does not meet the requirements laid down by the working party set up by the Commonwealth? If this is so, how is Western Australia to solve a serious problem that it knows how to tackle successfully but cannot tackle successfully because of Commonwealth control? 
Is the Minister assisting the Minister for Defence aware that Japan's Parliament recently authorised significant increases in the size and scope of that country's self defence forces? Is not this decision another example of the emphasis placed by Asian and South East Asian nations on the need for stronger defence capabilities? Does not the latest erosion of Australia's defence capabilitiesa fact which was not hidden in the Minister's statement delivered yesterday- further add to the deterioration in Service morale and effectiveness and place this country hopelessly out of step with its neighbours? 
I think that  Senator O  'Byrne was completely unjustified in saying that the Government has not received cooperation from the Opposition parties. The statement made this afternoon by the Leader of the Opposition,  Senator Withers,  pointed out that the Government has received co-operation. When one considers the work load of this sessional period as compared with that of others, one realises that the Government must have received the co-operation of the Opposition. The Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  has asked the Senate to agree to an extension of the sitting time of the Senate by 4 hours 1 5 minutes each week for the remainder of this sessional period. This is the fourth occasion on which the Senate is to sit at different times during this sessional period which commenced with the introduction of the Budget. The original times were those which the Senate normally sat over the years. Then the times were changed to provide for longer sittings. Then there was a change which meant that the Senate adjourned at 7 o'clock on 2 nights a week. Now the Leader of the Government has asked for a further change. My party wholeheartedly supports this change because we believe that if we are to end this sessional period at a reasonable time before Christmas we have to sit extra hours. 
I contest the statement by  Senator 0  'Byrne that this sessional period is being made longer because Senate committees have been sitting. This practice is not new. I recall that in years gone by we have had committees examining the Estimates. 
I accept that point. The point I want to make is that I recall well what happened after those Estimates committee meetings, when we came back into the Senate. Because some honourable senators on the Government side, who at that time were in Opposition, did not support the policy of attending Estimates committee meetings, we had to go through the whole of the Estimates again in this place. That practice delayed the Senate for great periods and that time could have been used to deal with Government business. What  Senator O  'Byrne said was not quite factual. 
I repeat that I support the statement made by the Leader of the Opposition. The Press and people in this Parliament do not recognise, or do not want to recognise, how much time the Senate is sitting, the work that it is doing and the cooperation that is being given by the Opposition parties. My Party is a small one, as is the Democratic Labor Party. On occasions when we believe that the Government's legislation is worth supporting we let the main Opposition party speak on behalf of our 2 parties. Our senators do not rise to speak. That does not mean that we do not take part in those debates because we cannot speak for ourselves or because we do not want to speak. We do not believe that after the Opposition spokesman has spoken we should rise and say that we support the legislation and continue the debate. I say to the Leader of the Government that he has our fullest co-operation at all times and I hope that the Government will co-operate with us. I support the motion. 
-My question is directed to either the Minister representing the Minister for the Environment and Conservation or the Minister for Customs and Excise and concerns the report prepared by the working party which studied kangaroo conservation methods and harvesting programs. As the party specified a list of requirements to be observed by the States, can the Minister say how many times the working party met and whether it carried out inspections in all or any of the States? Who decides whether management programs submitted by States meet the requirements set out in the working party's report? 
The Country Party supports this Bill but the reason why I got to my feet is to say that when this Bill was going through the House of Representatives the Country Party moved an amendment to it. Our senators have had a look at this amendment and the Bill and we do not intend to go on with the amendment. We still express some concern, as was expressed by our spokesman in the House of Representatives. There are in existence many organisations which perform splendid work in the social welfare advisory field and one must doubt therefore that the Government needs to go to the expense of establishing a Commission which, in part, will duplicate the work of these existing bodies. Nevertheless, we see a lot of merit in the Bill. I hope that this Commission, when set up, will not usurp the responsibilities of the social welfare bodies which have been appointed in these States. Perhaps the Special Minister of State  (Senator Willesee)  could give us an assurance on that. Otherwise, we support the Bill. 
-This Bill seeks to amend the Wheat Tax Act by extending, on one hand, the date of operation and, on the other hand, the amount of levy to be deducted from returns to growers. This Bill implements the proposal of the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation. It is expected, in line with the Federation's recommendations, that when the Bill is passed regulations will be introduced to set the operative levy at 1 lc per tonne on deliveries to the Australian Wheat Board for the 1973-74 crop. This levy will come into operation as from 1 October 1973. 

 Senator Laucke has spoken of the original Act which commenced the scheme in 1957. The levy at that time was one farthing per bushel. I do not want to traverse that ground. I believe that the introduction of the original legislation was a landmark in the history of the Australian wheat industry. It opened up opportunities for a concerted attack on industry problems by drawing on the skills and experiences of the research workers who specialised in different fields associated with wheat production and marketing. This Bill gives expression to the wishes of the growers that research in their industry should be continued and should be increased. It gives expression to their conviction that the industry should supply the funds for its future development. For those reasons the Australian Country Party supports the Bill. 
I rise to support  Senator Laucke  and  Senator Little.  When these Budget proposals were announced the withdrawal of the sales tax exemptions on certain soft drinks brought an immediate and a strong reaction from the growers and from the industry generally. When one considers the length of time for which assistance has been given to the fruit industry under this section of sales tax exemption one can readily understand why that outcry came. We find in looking at the task force report, item 120 at page 309, that the exemption for essences consisting substantially of juices of Australian fruits had been in force since 1932. It was abolished during the war years but reintroduced in 1946, 1 take it by a Labor government. In 1957 the exemption was expanded to cover non-alcoholic carbonated beverages containing 5 per cent or more of Australian fruit juice. The purpose of the concession at that time was to assist the fruit growers and particularly citrus growers. 
We found immediately that when that expanded exemption was applied the result of the concession was that soft drink manufacturers used apple juice as an ingredient to secure exemption for their products. As  Senator Little  pointed out, a number of these manufacturers were in the co-operative area. But apple juice, I understand, is said to be practically colourless and tasteless so that it cannot readily be detected in soft drinks. We know that from Coca Cola, ginger ale and such drinks.  Senator Laucke  said that this made a tremendous difference to the industry; it assisted the industry because it could use inferior grades of fruit for this purpose, and this made a vast difference to the growers' returns. 
In my State the Budget came at a time when the extractors of the juices had all their vats filled to the limit. They had purchased their fruit from the growers, had extracted the juice from that fruit and were ready to meet the summer market of the drink manufacturers. Overnight a situation developed which meant that these manufacturers who had paid the growers good money for their fruit were left with this vast quantity of juice on their hands. The Country Party has studied closely the representations made by the industry, particularly by the fruit growers and the cooperatives. We believe that the amendment put forward by  Senator Laucke  deserves our support because we believe that this is the only way we can see the industry getting out of the situation in which it has been placed. 
One has to look for a reason behind this withdrawal of the concession. I have quoted the task force which was set up by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  of which  Dr Coombs  was  Chairman.  I find in this the anti-rural hand of the Prime Minister and of the Labor Party in general- in this take-away task force as I call it.  Dr Coombs  was asked- as country people have cause to remember well- to find economic room for the Government's higher priority programs. Frankly, I am amazed to learn that in this instance removal of the exemption was recommended and adopted without any consultation with the citrus industry, the apple industry, the pear industry or any other fruit or associated industry. It was done without any consultation at all. I have warned on many occasions of the dangers of setting up centralised advisory commissions and committees, and here is a classic example of what can happen under such a system: An important industry is to be deprived of assistance without even being asked to express an opinion on the likely effect of this action. 
-That was one of the most important parts of the LiberalCountry Party platform. The effects are great.  Senator Laucke  has spoken of them,  Senator Little  has spoken of them, and I am deeply concerned about the future of the industry not only in my own State of Western Australia, where it is very serious, but in Tasmania, South Australia and even New South Wales. 1 know well that the fruit industry has had a long and a hard struggle to stabilise returns to growers through its orderly marketing system. There is no doubt in my mind that the action proposed to be taken by the Government indicates its failure to understand the widespread effects of this move. I strongly support the amendment because I believe that it will give the Bill a measure of justice which is certainly sorely lacking at present. For the reasons that I have stated, for the reasons stated by  Senator Laucke  and  Senator Little,  and for the reasons that I know  Senator Wright  will state, the Country Party will support this amendment. 
I join with the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  and the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers)  in associating the Australian Country Party with the motion of condolence and with the tributes that have been paid to John Dedman. Twenty-five years ago he was a most unpopular man by any judgment and in the eyes of the community. The reason for this was simply that as Minister for Post-war Reconstruction he was responsible for a number of decisions that were considered harsh and penny-pinching by people seeking to return to normal life and the customary pleasures after the austerity of war. That generation, with no small degree of bitterness, was quick to call John Dedman  'Mr Austerity'.  It is unfortunate that a man who made many major and enduring contributions to Australia's advancement was remembered best for the less important decisions. The calibre and quality of the man have no identification with the undeserved nom-de-plume. 
John Dedman 's frequent visits to Parliament House in recent years enabled many present-day senators and members of the House of Representatives to make his close acquaintance. It was an enriching experience. The tributes expressed yesterday in the House of Representatives and those expressed here today by the Leader of the Government and the Leader of the Opposition are among the most glowing and sincere that I have heard of any parliamentarian. They were spoken of the real John Dedman, and I believe that he deserved each one of them. In his 10 years in Parliament he held a number of senior ministerial portfolios with distinction, reflecting qualities of skill, determination and dedication linked with a tremendous capacity for hard work and study. I believe Australia can be proud of the memory not only of John Dedman the Government Minister but also of John Dedman the citizen and the man. I am pleased to associate my Party and myself with the motion of condolence, and I extend sympathy to  Mrs Dedman  and her family. 
-My question is addressed to the Minister for Primary Industry. When does the Government intend to announce a positive decision on wool marketing reform based on the report from the Australian Wool Corporation? Can the Minister say why the report, which he hoped would be available months ago, still has not been submitted? How does the Minister reconcile the urgency expressed by the Labor Party before it became the Government with the inaction of the past 12 months with Labor in office? Is this not a further instance of Labor's double standards? 
Would the Minister for Primary Industry say that the proportion of wool sold by private treaty in Australia is increasing sharply? Is this not reflected in the growing number of leading agencies which are being forced into private selling to meet competition? Does this trend affect orderly marketing through the auction system, even to the point at which a complete breakdown of the system is possible? Does this situation not emphasise very strongly the need for wool marketing reform which has been promised by the Government? 
-Brockman asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
) Will the Minister inform the Senate of: 
the number and identity of boats arrested for illegal fishing in Australian waters in the past two years; 
b) what charges were laid and what were the results of any court action taken; 
the number and identity of boats escorted out of Australian waters but not arrested; and 
whether any foreign fishing boat in the past years has been suspected of, or found to be engaged in, drug running. 
-Does the Minister for Primary Industry recall answering a question in August about whether Cabinet had decided to renew the licence for the Cheynes Beach Whaling Co. at Albany? Is it a fact that the Prime Minister has told the Premier of Western Australia that whaling will continue at this centre? If so, does this mean that Cabinet has made a decision about the renewal of the licence after 3 1 December? Is there to be any variation from the existing licence when a new licence is issued? 
The purpose of the Bill before the Senate is to establish an Industries Assistance Commission which shall consist of not less than five and not more than 9 commissioners. The functions of the Commission are to hold inquiries and make reports to the Minister in accordance with the Act in relation to matters affecting assistance to industry and other matters that may be referred to the Commission in accordance with the Act. To begin with, I believe that this Bill has been correctly referred to as one of the most important ever brought into the Senate. The Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  when speaking on this Bill in another place said that he regarded the Bill as one of the most important and significant Bills on which he had spoken in 16 years in the Parliament. I say immediately that the Country Party recognises the importance of the legislation. It agrees with the principle of the proposal, which the second reading speech says is to extend to all Australian industries a system of government assistance. 
The Country Party has studied the Bill closely and weighed its proposals against the Government's record of assistance to industry in its first 12 months in office. Those examinations left no doubt that my Party must oppose the setting up of the proposed Commission in the interests of the very industries the Bill purports to help. The points made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  when he introduced this Bill fall into sharp contradiction with many decisions taken by his Government. Speaking of the Tariff Board in his second reading speech the Prime Minister said: 
The Government believes the system has, over a long period, proved its value to successive governments in an important and difficult area of government decision making. 
In another part of his second reading speech, he said: 
The Tariff Board was established in 1921 and it has been an important and respected source of advice to 2 1 of the 28 Parliaments which have been elected since federation. 
One would believe from those statements that the Prime Minister and his Government stand firmly behind the universally adopted practice of providing adequate support for the manufacturing and primary industries of one's own country. But Labor's actions since last December prove the emptiness of the Prime Minister's words. The truth is that this Government is renowned not for what it has given to industry but for what it has taken away. I refer to the across the board tariff cut of 25 per cent which exposed manufacturers to vastly increased competition from imports. I refer to the regular currency revaluations which have seriously eroded returns from exports. I refer also to the parcel of smaller but nonetheless significant take-aways such as tax concessions, investment allowances, petrol and telephone concessions, depreciation allowances, and some subsidies and bounties. 
I ask the Senate whether these actions were the work of a government sympathetic to the problems and needs of Australia's industries. Of course they were not. The very reverse is true. The record speaks for itself: The policy of this Government is to withdraw assistance from industry. In view of this, 1 can only conclude that the real reason for seeking to establish an Industries Assistance Commission is to justify denials of assistance and the withdrawal of assistance that has not yet been taken away. 
The Country Party does not object to the principle of establishing a Commission to conduct public inquiries and make public reports on applications by industry for assistance. That approach to the complex question of the allocation of Australia's resources to needy industries is welcomed. But we object in the strongest terms to the proposal to set up the Commission as a bureaucratic central planning authority with powers and influences that should belong only to the Government and the Parliament. 
If this Bill is passed in its present form, it will be mandatory on the elected Government to go to a non-elected statutory authority for advice and recommendations before it can make decisions on industry assistance policies. We have already seen with the Coombs Committee what happens when the Government sets up an advisory body to make recommendations. Its recommendations are readily adopted and implemented. 
Surely the same will apply to the proposed Industries Assistance Commission. Because its recommendations will have been made after holding public inquiries, the Government will be loath to invite widespread criticism by rejecting the Commission's advices. So we will find that a commission not elected by the people, and therefore not answerable to them, will virtually be the decision maker in an enormously wide range of economic policies. So wide are the powers proposed to be given to the Commission that it will be able to initiate its own inquiries without being asked to do so by the Government. This can only result in a situation in which no industry receiving government assistance will be able to plan on the continuation of that assistance. 
My Leader, the Honourable Doug Anthony, when he spoke on this Bill in another place, said that this legislation would mean the end of the long-established and widely accepted system under which Government assistance policies for industry had been devised- the system of discussion, consultation and negotiation between industry and government. He said that it would be pointless, even if permissible, for industry to put its views directly to the Government, to Ministers, or to Government departments, because the authority and influence which once were theirs would have been placed in the hands of the Commission. 
Some critics of the Country Party have interpreted that portion of  Mr Anthony's  speech as a frank revelation of what they term the narrow, vested interested role of the Country Party. That, of course, is rubbish. It underlines the ignorance of the consultation and negotiation system and even questions the democratic right of Australians to express their point of view to the Government they have elected. Several of our biggest industry assistance schemes, such as the wheat stabilisation scheme and the rural reconstruction scheme can be introduced only by the passing of complementary legislation by the 
States. It is only through consultation and negotiation between the industry, the States and the Commonwealth that agreement can be reached and legislation can be proceeded with. One only has to recall the wheat stabilisation plan- I think 2 plans ago-when Victoria stood out from the other States on some particular point. The stabilisation scheme at that time nearly fell through because Victoria would not agree to what the Australian Wheat Growers' Federation, the Commonwealth and the State Governments, other than Victoria, were suggesting. I believe that a similar situation could develop with the Industries Assistance Commission's recommendations. 
I venture to say that very often agreement will not be easy in matters when decisions are made by a bureaucratic instrumentality far removed from the States. In other words, frank discussion between the parties involved has been the cornerstone of some of the most important economic agreements entered into by previous Commonwealth governments. We are now asked to hand over that function to a statutory body which has no responsibility to the States or to the people involved in the industries. I return to the point I made earlier, that there is ample evidence to show that the Labor Government is opposed to the principle of granting assistance to industry.  Sir John  Crawford, who was given the task of preparing a report on how an industries commission could be constructed, recommended a review of the tariff duties every 10 years. The Bill, however, proposes to reduce the review time to 6 years. This brought a strong reaction from the Associated Chambers of Manufactures of Australia. In an article headed 'Industries Assistance Bill; Amendments Needed ' in its journal Industry News', ACMA said: 
Tariffs are a device for assisting industry over a long-term period . . . as the Bill currently stands it seems inevitable that Australia can look forward to a 6-year cycle of tariff review. This would be absurd. 
In making investment decisions, manufacturers are looking for long-term indications as to what the level of protection will be. If the Commission alters the duties or assistance on a 6- yearly cycle basts then uncertainty and concern will result and m many cases investment will be deferred. 
The Associated Chamber of Manufacturers of Australia also drew attention to the other dangerous faults in the Bill I have already mentioned.  Sir John  Crawford also recommended that the Government should be able to seek the Commission's advice on assistance to tertiary industries. The Bill makes no mention of this provision. So we are left to conclude that Government enterprises will be exempt from the Commission 's inquiries. Publicly-owned industry competing against private industry will not have to justify any assistance which it might seek from the Government. One might ask: Why not? I submit the reason is that this Government has no genuine concern for private industry. In fact, it would prefer to nationalise all industries, and it would not be convenient if nationalised industries were subjected to the same public scrutiny as it now proposes for the private sector. I have outlined why this Bill should not be passed. It contains glaring faults and weaknesses, and the Country Party makes no apology for exposing those faults and declaring that it is strongly opposed to the legislation.  Mr President,  the Country Party will vote against the second reading of this Bill. 
I ask a question of the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Is he aware that the Prime Minister yesterday refused to say what action he would take if the prices and incomes referenda on 8 December were carried? Did the Prime Minister say that he would not make firm commitments until after the industrial peace conference on 1 1 and 12 December? Does this not indicate that the Prime Minister is deliberately asking the people to vote yes on the referenda issues without knowing what is involved? Why does the Prime Minister choose to keep the electors in ignorance on 2 issues which are extremely important to the people and the nation? 
The purpose of the 
Wheat Industry Stabilisation Bill is to provide for an extension of the wheat industry stabilisation arrangements which are currently scheduled to expire with the disposal of the 1972-73 season's wheat crop and to cover the marketing of wheat of the 19/3-74 season. The expiration of the wheat stabilisation arrangements with the disposal of the 1972-73 season's wheat crop sees the end of the fifth 5-year wheat stabilisation plan. While the Labor Government may be able to lay claim to the introduction of the first 5-year plan which commenced in 1948, let me say quite strongly that the present plan which has just ended is a very different one from that introduced in 1948. 
I would expect it to be. I would hope that any future plan introduced in this Parliament would include even more changes. This is just what I believe the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation asked for when it saw the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  on 27 April last and again in September. The Minister has stated that the extension of the wheat industry stabilisation arrangements for one year has the support of the wheat industry. I do not quite see it that way. My understanding of the situation is that the Minister for Primary Industry issued a statement in Canberra on 16 May last stating that the Government would propose to the States and the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation that the current 5-year wheat industry stabilisation scheme, due to end in November 1973, be extended for a further year. Under the one year extension, it is proposed that 200 million export bushels would be protected by a guaranteed price of $1.60 a bushel. If the world price fell below the guarantee the government would make up the difference. On the other hand, if export prices during the 1973-74 season exceeded the guarantee plus 5c. a bushel, wheat growers would contribute to the stabilisation fund with a maximum contribution of 15c. a bushel. 
At the same time the Minister stated that he would discuss the Government's proposal to extend the current scheme with the States at the meeting of the Australian Agricultural Council in Canberra on Friday, 20 May and that he would meet representatives of the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation in Canberra on Monday, 23 May. I take it that those meetings with the Minister took place, because the Minister made another statement on 29 May in which he said that the  President  of the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation,  Mr Max  Ridd, advised him that the executive of the Wheatgrowers Federation had unanimously accepted a one-year extension of the current wheat stabilisation scheme. 
I would like to put the picture as I understand it. At the same time on 29 May the Minister said that following the August meeting of the Australian Agricultural Council he would confer with the Federation on its approach to a new stabilisation plan and that the Council would receive a progress report on the preparation of a new plan. The Minister then went further to tell us what was happening in his Department. He said that the Department of Primary Industry had established a wheat stabilisation review group and that that group had drawn up a work program. That was said on 29 May last. What has happened since? I know very well that there has been a lot of work going on behind the scenes which is not made public, but the point I want to make here is that there are also many knowledgeable men in the Department and in the Wheatgrowers Federation who know what they want. The Government knows what it wants to give them. So why has the new stabilisation plan not eventuated? Surely it will not take 2 years- this year and the next year- to draw up a work program. We will be dealing with the legislation for the next plan this time next year. 
From time to time in answer to questions the Minister has said that he wants time to look objectively at the wheat industry stabilisation 
Elan. No one would query that. He has said that e wants to draw up a plan in regard to long term credit to undeveloped countries as he did not believe that wheat growers should have to carry the full burden of sales to nations that needed wheat but could not afford to buy it without concessional terms. He went on to say that although normal humanitarian motives were involved, he thought that the entire community should perhaps share the burden. I could not agree more with the Minister. Neither could the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation agree more in these matters. When we look at the Federation's submission we see that in paragraph 13 under the heading 'Sales on credit terms' the Federation says: 
Australia as one of the three major wheat exporting countries has an obligation to the world. By this we mean those countries which cannot immediately pay are precisely the ones which need the wheat most. Therefore the obligation to sell to developing countries is a national responsibility, and as such should be carried by the Australian community as a whole and not by the Australian wheat grower. 
The Australian Government should ensure that facilities are provided to the AWB consistent with those available in the other major exporting countries, with whom we must compete for our export wheat trade. 
The Federation therefore requests that the Australian Government underwrite the full credit risk associated with such export sales of wheat that are covered under national interest. This will bring Australia more in line with Canada and. the United States. 
In paragraph 14 the Federation says: 
The Federation firmly recommends that rural credits section IV of the Reserve Bank Act be amended to enable repayments to be extended beyond 12 months, where statutory marketing authorities have negotiated Government-approved long-term credit sales. 
So on that matter the Minister's views are shared by the leaders of the wheat industry, as they are shared by honourable senators on this side of the Senate. I want to refer to a few other matters that have been said by the Minister for Primary Industry as spokesman for the Government. There have been suggestions or the Minister has talked about the Government not giving openended subsidies to the wheat industry or to any other industries. Let me remind the Minister that none of the previous 5-year stabilisation programs were open-ended. They always contained a limit. Let me remind him also that at no time did he or any other Labor spokesman on primary industry indicate in their election policies a hardening in policies in regard to wheat producers. Did the Minister or any other Labor Party member make any statement before 2 December such as that made by the Minister for Primary Industry at the international meeting of the Agricultural Ministers in Paris last April when he said: 
Australia would need international co-operation if it was to reduce the level of assistance to farmers. 
I ask also: What does the Minister mean when he talks about his intention to rationalise the industry? Now that a new stabilisation plan is being looked at I think that all these things have to be spelt out in time. So on this occasion I take the opportunity of asking those questions. If subsidies are to be referred to the Australian Industries Commission to be set up by the Government, how does the statement made by the Minister for Primary Industry square up with that policy when he said that guarantees would be strictly limited? Does this mean that the Labor Government intends to stand over the Industries Commission to determine its policies? I read a speech that was delivered under the name of the Minister for Primary Industry- I am not quite sure on that- to the Western Australian Agricultural Industry Conference held in Perth on 20 July 1 973. It is alleged that the Minister said: 
First let me state I do not regard my job as that of solely looking after the interests of farmers. Along with my Cabinet colleagues I have to keep in mind the interests of all Australians, whether they be farmers, town or city dwellers. 
It's true that my portfolio is concerned with developing an efficient and viable rural sector but programs geared towards agriculture must be fair and reasonable and not an undue burden on the rest of the nation. 
I believe very firmly that to suggest a reduction or abolition of assistance measures shows an abysmal lack of understanding of the importance of the export industries. The high standard of living in Australia and the economic strength which allows governments to carry on the kind of programs that the Labor Government wants to implement- I am not saying that in any derogatory fashion- have to come largely from the ability of Australian producers to export in competition with the world, encouraged and helped by governments. This is just what the previous Government endeavoured to do. Let me remind people that much of the export generated prosperity of this nation has been achieved for the Australian people by our primary producers, in particular by the wool and wheat producers who are often the same producers. To a very signicant degree this has happened because previous governments were prepared in the national interest to contribute funds to stabilise returns and thus provide incentives for production. 
-We were very worried. I think that we had good cause to be because it was beyond our means. I might say that it was in the hands of the gods. But from the time the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  slashed export returns by revaluing the currency, there has been nothing but a threat to the stability and the confidence of industry. There are threats against the industry's vital profitability by clumsy control of prices while wage rises are fostered by this Government. Inflation is allowed to run rampant. Now we have new threats involving export incentives and wheat stabilisation. The Country Party supports the extension of this stabilisation plan but regrets that it is only for one year. It is concerned that there is no guaranteed stabilisation arrangement to benefit the wheat grower. The crop is already coming off in some parts of Australia and it will be only a few months before the next crop will go in. But what will happen this time next year? We are hoping that something will be done. I am sure that the Minister and his Department are working on a new plan but we do not have such a plan in front of us at the moment 
The Country Party believes that discussions should be concluded as soon as possible between the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation, the State Ministers for Agriculture and the Government in order to introduce a long term stabilisation plan that will have some meaning for the industry. I repeat that farmers will have to make their plans now in regard to a stabilisation plan because the crops are coming off at present and it is only a matter of months before the new crops will go in. These farmers will want to know what is happening. Because the new stabilisation agreement is delayed the producers are forced to undertake their planning without the knowledge of what the new agreement will contain. This is confusing and annoying to growers. It is unhealthy for an industry which has worked within the security of the stabilisation scheme for many years. 
I regard the attendant Bill, the Wheat Export Charge Bill 1973, as totally unnecessary this year. The purpose of the Bill is to extend by 1 year- that is, until the new agreement is introduced- the growers' contribution of a proportion of their export sales to a stabilisation fund when prices exceed the predetermined level of 165c a bushel. Taking current overseas prices as a guide, it is very likely that growers will be contributing to the fund from returns from the current harvest. But no moneys will be collected under this Bill until the Australian Wheat Board receives payment for sales from the 1973-74 pool, and that will be at least a year from now. Therefore the growers are being forced to contribute to a stabilisation fund without knowing what part the fund will play in the new stabilisation scheme which is still 12 months away. Viewed in that context, the contribution plan is an unnecessary imposition on growers and the Bill should be deferred. I had intended to move an amendment to section 13 (3) of the Wheat Industry Stabilisation Act which states: 
The Minister may give directions to the Board concerning the performance of its functions and the exercise of its powers, and the Board shall comply with those directions. 
The purpose of the proposed amendment was to tighten the provision to ensure that ministerial intervention would be confined to commercial considerations and therefore to the interests of wheat growers and the Australian taxpayers. But I do not propose to press the amendment. My reason is that the present stabilisation plan ends tomorrow and an amendment would mean that the continuing scheme would not be in operation on Saturday when its term is due to commence. 
The decision that I have made with my colleagues on both sides of me is in line with the undertaking that the Senate Opposition parties have expressed repeatedly. We will not hinder the passage of the legislation of which we approve or delay the introduction of a measure which has a particular timetable if no substantial changes are judged by the Opposition to be necessary. In this case we know that the Senate will be debating legislation for the proposed wheat stabilisation scheme in about 12 months from now, or even before that time. We propose to take the opportunity then to move the amendment what I have outlined. We hope that when the Government is considering the new scheme it will see the wisdom of the change that we seek. Consequently, we wish this Bill a speedy passage through the Senate. 
-My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Urban and Regional Development. Have the Federal and Victorian Governments agreed to co-operate in developing small selfreliant cities on the fringe of Melbourne? Is this decentralisation? Is it not certain that the development of so-called 'systems cities' on the outskirts of Melbourne Will accelerate rather than slow down the drift of country people to the metropolis? 
-We are told by the Government that the purpose of the Constitution Alteration (Local Government Bodies) Bill is to make Federal funds available direct to local government bodies, by means of grants and low interest loans, to ease the burden of rates and to improve municipal services. An alteration to the Constitution is necessary before the Government can implement its plan, and the people are being asked at a referendum whether they believe that the constitutional alteration should be made. 
This is one of 6 major changes to the Constitution proposed by the Labor Government. It is one of the 6 new avenues of power the Labor Government seeks from the electors by means of referendum. I believe that the people are well justified in asking just what is going on. 
Only a fortnight ago, when this house was debating the Senate (Representation of Territories) Bill, I drew attention to the fact that the provisions of that Bill represented the thin edge of the wedge in the destruction of the independence of the Senate, and perhaps of the Senate itself. Now we have before us a measure that I believe would drive the wedge deeper. We are told that the main provisions of the Bill are for a new section in the Constitution giving senators a term equal to 2 terms in the House of Representatives, and for simultaneous elections of both Houses. The Prime Minister said in his second reading speech, when this Bill was introduced in another place, that there was no derogation in the proposal from the authority or responsibility of either House, but there were great benefits. The benefits, he said, were in public convenience and worthwhile savings of expenditure, and, most of all, the benefit to Parliament of having the reflection in both Houses simultaneously of the people's will, so that the Government and the Parliament might get on with the job. 
I believe that we can discount the first two benefits claimed by the Prime Minister. This 
Government has not shown itself in 12 months of office to be one concerned with the convenience of people. Does the Prime Minister seriously ask the people of Australia to believe that cost saving is one reason why his Government wants to hold Senate and House of Representatives elections at the same time? That is utter rubbish. We know that Labor has a warped sense of proportion and priority where expense is concerned, but a Government which contributes heavily and unashamedly to the rate of inflation through the totality of its own expenditure is most unlikely seriously to consider austerity in the form of reduced election costs. This is merely a red herring, a feeble attempt to disguise the real purpose. 
So it is the Prime Minister's third reason, so called, that we need to deal with in this debate. By his own admission, what the Prime Minister wants by the medium of this legislation is a majority in both Houses so that legislation brought forward by his Government-the good legislation, the bad legislation, and the indifferent legislation- can be given a free passage. Neither he nor his Ministers or backbenchers can tolerate the thorough review to which Labor legislation has been subjected this year in this chamber. The great strength and the great value of the Senate is its independence, and the Constitution, as it now stands, gives it that independence. Take that away and the Senate would become a useless rubber-stamp of the Executive Government's decisions. 
As the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers)  has just pointed out, in relation to the Bill now before the chamber one could be excused for saying that if ever there was any doubt that the Labor Government employs a double standard this Bill must dispel that doubt. For years, this Parliament and the people of Australia have heard Labor champion the electoral principle of one vote one value. For years, we have listened to Labor claim and complain that people in the country areas of Australia have greater voting strength than people in the cities. Yet here we have a Bill that proposes to alter the Constitution so as to ensure that members of the House of Representatives and of the Parliaments of the States represent numbers of people rather than numbers of electors. One major effect of such a change would be to take our electoral system further away from the one vote one value principle. Why the double standard? Why propound one principle and follow another? Clearly, this is another attempt by Labor to fool the people, and for that reason alone it deserves to fail. 
A few months ago, the Senate rejected a Labor Government Bill which sought to give the cities more representation in Parliament and the country areas fewer representatives. Now wc have a new Bill with a different title but the same objective. Its one major difference is that now the Government seeks to let the people decide by referendum. What Labor wants is not equality or fair representation for the people, or one vote one value or whatever else it might like to call it. It wants political advantage for the Labor Party- and this Bill, presented so soon after the Electoral Bill was thrown out, demonstrates its determination to get it. The motive is consistent with this Government's deep-rooted antipathy towards rural areas. I do not propose on this occasion to go through the long and growing list of decisions made by this Government that have disadvantaged country people. They are well known. 
In view of the obvious aim of the Bill, I ask: How serious is the Government about its decentralisation policy? If it succeeds in having electoral boundaries determined by numbers of people, the Government will have the greatest representation where it wants it- in the heavily populated worker suburbs of the cities. I submit that it is most unlikely that Labor will set in train policies that would bring more people out of the cities into country areas: it would be defeating its own electoral purpose by doing so. To prove my point that Labor argues one principle but adopts another, I shall give figures showing how the proposal in the Bill will take us further away from one vote one value. If the present proposal had applied at the time of the 1969 election, one vote in the electorate of Sydney would have been worth 1.7 votes in the electorate of Robertson, and one vote in the electorate of Melbourne would have been worth 1.77 votes in the electorate of Diamond Valley. There are many other similar examples. 
I now turn to Labor's effrontery as exhibited in this Bill's proposal to give the Federal Government the right to tell the States how they shall elect their representatives to their own Parliaments. This is just one more attack by the centralist, socialist Government on the rights of the States. It is preposterous for the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitiam)  to ask the Senate-the States House- to approve a measure that would strip the States of such a fundamental right. That he had the temerity to do so emphasises, if emphasis were needed, the Federal Labor Government's determination to grab every significant State power for Canberra- a process which would lead, of course, to the achievement of the Prime Minister's ambition to abolish the States, which he sees only as an encumbrance. For these reasons, clearly the Bill should be rejected in its entirety, and the Country Party means to see that that is what happens. 
-The Australian Country Party agrees with the provision of this Bill that will give electors in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory the right to vote on proposals to alter the Constitution. It is obvious that every qualified person should have a say in whether the Constitution is altered, regardless of where in Australia he or she lives. But my Party is opposed to the proposal contained in this Bill that the Constitution can be changed, given an overall majority of electors, with agreement on a 50-50 basis between the States. I believe it is very likely that the people of Australia will want to give voting rights to the territories but that many electors will have grave doubts about altering the majority of States clauses. 
The Bill we have before us does not permit us to vote for one proposal and not the other. We must vote for both or neither. One wonders why the Government would put forward a proposition that clearly invites defeat. It cannot be that the Australian Labor Party is half-hearted about its desire to alter the constitution. As I have said in debate on another Bill, Labor is proposing a multiplicity of constitution changes- so many that we cannot doubt it is serious. 
We must look elsewhere for the reason why this tug-o-war Bill has been brought forward in this form. I see 2 possible reasons, each consistent with Labor style. The first is deceit, in that the Government hopes the electors will see the issue merely as one in which they are asked to give voting power to the Territories, and disregard the other proposal. The other possible reason, of course, is that the Government may reckon its chances of getting Constitution alteration proposals past the States are enhanced if the required majority of States is aligned with the number of Labor State governments. As we know, there are 3 Labor State governments at the moment, and a three-three 'majority' of the States is what the government's amendment to the constitution proposes. I submit there cannot be a valid reason for seeking the change. A majority is a majority. It is not three out of six. For that reason the Australian Country Party will support the amendment foreshadowed by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Withers). 
-The Bill the Senate is dealing with is the States Grants (Schools) Bill 1973. 1 mean to make a contribution to this debate but the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  has just asked me whether I am prepared to ask for leave to continue my remarks so that he can bring some business before the Senate. I now ask for leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I ask the 
Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs the following question: In view of North Vietnam's latest attack on the South which is described as the biggest assault since the ceasefire, is it obvious that the Vietnam war is far from over and that the renewed hostilities increase the dangers of the development of a wider conflict in South East Asia? Was the lessening of military activity in Vietnam one of the reasons advanced by the Government when it decided to reduce Australia's defence capacity? In view of this and the situation in the Middle East, is not the Government's decision to reduce the size of the armed services premature? 
I rise on behalf of the Australian Country Party to say that we will support the motion put forward by  Senator Rae  because of the remarks - 
-We will oppose the motion moved by the Minister for the Media. I put it that way. It is the same thing. 
-We will oppose the motion for the reasons mentioned by  Senator Rae.  I listened very carefully to the remarks of the Minister for the Media as to why he thought that the Government should move that the Committee not press with the amendments that it had previously carried. I would have thought that the Minister would spell out in detail the reasons why the Government was opposed to the amendments instead of putting up the same proposals that we heard earlier in the debate. I want to say quite firmly that the Country Party supports the Karmel Committee report and most of its recommendations. We do not seek to destroy the concept of the Schools Commission in any way. 
I do not think that the honourable senator could have read the report. Nor are we trying to destroy the flexibility or the working of the Commission. All that the Opposition Parties are endeavouring to do is to take away from whoever is Minister for Education- I am not talking about the present Minister because tomorrow we could have another Minister - 
-Yes, or any other Minister, should there be a change in government, the sole right of appointing personally - 
I am asked why we did not do this on a previous occasion. Every time a committee or a commission is appointed, I have heard members of the Labor Party seek to have on that committee or commission some Labor Party representatives, some union representatives or representatives from some other organisation. We are seeking to have representatives of the teachers and representatives of the state school parents and citizens associations on the Commission. 
I ask the honourable senator to look at page 158 of the Karmel Committee report. It states: 
In submissions to and discussions with the Committee the Australian Teachers Federation and the Australian Council of State School Organisations argued strongly for the right to nominate representatives as members of the Commission. 
-That is what we are suggesting. 
I am making the speech. The Minister can read every line that he wants to and take it all together. I believe the Government has given serious consideration to appointing members of this Commission. I believe that it came down in favour of the idea that if it carried on with the proposal of the Opposition it could run into too much trouble. It thought that it was not worth the trouble. All I want to say is that my Party believes that every section of education should be represented on this Commission. 
-No, we did not say that. 
Apparently, the Government to which the honourable senator belongs has said that it is too hard to do that. So it will not go on with it. For these reasons the Country Party is opposed to the motion moved by the Minister for the Media. 
-The Senate is dealing with the States Grants (Schools) Bill which comes before the Senate as a result of recommendations made this year by the Interim Committee for the Australian Schools Commission and of the Australia-wide survey into the needs of education which was conducted by the Australian Education Council in 1969. Before I deal with the Bill, I wish to refer to some remarks which have been made by those honourable senators who have contributed to the debate. It seems quite obvious to me that Government senators have been at great lengths in this debate to endeavour to get the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  off the hook. This has been so evident that  Senator McManus  began his contribution to the debate by saying that the issue now before the Senate had developed into an issue of the credibility of the Prime Minister and the Minister for Education to honour their pre-election promises in regard to education. 
Both  Senator Devitt  and  Senator James  McClelland went to great lengths to try to show the people of Australia that the Government was carrying out its repeated pre-election promises that any form of education benefit already existing would be maintained and, therefore, any aid would be additional to that existing in the field of education. Both honourable senators referred to the debate which took place in the House of Representatives on 26 September 1972, when the Australian Labor Party was in Opposition. At that time the House was debating the States Grants (Schools) Bill.  Mr Beazley,  as the Labor Party spokesman on education, at that time moved an amendment to the motion for the second reading of the Bill. He moved: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: the House, while not refusing a second reading to the Bill, is of the opinion that it should provide for the establishment of an Australian Schools Commission to examine and determine the needs of students in government and nongovernment primary, secondary and technical schools, and recommend grants which the Commonwealth should make to the States to assist in meeting the requirements of all school age children on the basis of needs and priorities and that the application of this policy could not allow the continued acceptance of the provisions of the Bill and that therefore grants should not be made on the basis provided in the Bill in respect of any year after 1 973 '. 
Today Government senators have tried to hang their hats on that amendment, but they have taken no notice of the Prime Minister's statement of 2 May 1972 when he spoke to a crowd of nearly 4,000 people at the Festival Hall in Melbourne.  Senator McManus  said, during the course of his speech today, that  Senator Hannan, 

 Senator Webster and he were there to hear the Prime Minister make this statement: 
We want to remove the inequalities in Australian education, and these are the greatest in the non-government sector, and my Party believes that where the need is greatest, there, this assistance should be given. We will not repeal or reduce any educational benefit which is already being paid. We will confirm any which are there already. 
The Prime Minister made that statement when he was Leader of the Opposition. In the House of Representatives  Mr Beazley,  as recently as 27 October 1972, produced a paper entitled 'Priorities in Education'. In that paper he stated- he has repeated it on many occasions: 
Whispering campaigns to the contrary, no private school under Labor will in future get less that the per capita grant it gets now. 
-On 27 October 1972. 
-Long after 26 September.  Mr Grassby,  who is now a Minister in the Labor Government, went further. During his election campaign his campaign director, I take it, put in the newspapers  Mr Grassby  's itinerary for 23 and 24 November last year. To make it really good and appealing to the electors, he said: 
Independent schools will die in 10 years unless there is a new deal. Al Grassby and his colleagues - 
I take it that all Government senators are his colleagues - are pledged to that new deal which will immediately give another 1 S per cent on top of existing grants and aids. 

 Senator Devitt endeavoured to counter all this evidence that the Opposition parties are putting forward. He said that he was surprised that in August of this year the Opposition parties should have brought forward a matter of urgency in the Senate in which they raised the Karmel Committee report and the assistance which it recommended for certain schools. Surely the fact that the Opposition parties raised this matter should have shown the Government that there was some concern among members of the Opposition and among the people of Australia that something was wrong. The fact that the Interim Committee, having reviewed the situation, reduced the number of schools in category A from 104 to 52 proved that the Opposition had a case. I do not know why  Senator Devitt  would want to express surprise at the action taken by the Opposition parties. Today  Senator Murphy  said that he had looked at an amendment that had been moved by the Opposition had he could not find anything wrong with it. I suggest that he have a much better look at some of the amendments that the Opposition parties have moved in this place. If he did, he might come up with the same result. 
I want to return to the Bill. The Bill incorporates most of the Interim Committee's recommendations, though in some cases with variations. I place on record my appreciation, and the appreciation of the Australian Country Party, of the great contribution made to education by the Interim Committee and in particular by Professor Karmel. The Committee was appointed by the Prime Minister on 12 December 1972 and was required to complete its work in time to allow a report to be submitted by the end of May this year- a working period of less than 6 months to undertake a survey of 9,500 schools and the systems under which they operate. This was a herculean task and the widespread overall commendation of the Committee's report reflects great credit on the Committee's dedication and ability to perform such an undertaking in very limited time. 
My Party is concerned, however, at some of the provisions of this Bill. It strongly supports the second reading of the Bill and it supports very strongly the amendments foreshadowed by  Senator Rae.  We are deeply concerned about the attitude the Government adopted towards the Committee's recommendations concerning grants for non-government schools. I am not critical of the Karmel Committee itself for recommending that per capita grants to what it classified as category 'A' schools should be phased out. After all, one of the Committee's terms of reference was to make recommendations as to the immediate financial needs of schools, priorities within those needs, and appropriate measures to assist in meeting those needs. In other words, the recommendations had to be made on the basis of relative needs and priorities without a predetermined level of support to all non-government schools. 
Obviously the Government paid far less heed to the terms of reference than did the Committee. I point out that the terms of reference laid down that the grants recommended by the Committee would be for the period 1 January 1974 to 31 December 1975, would be in addition to existing Commonwealth commitments, and would be directed towards increased expenditure on schools and not in substitution for continuing efforts by the States and non-government school authorities. 
The Minister for Education, in a letter to Professor Karmel dated 13 April 1973, changed the terms of reference.  Senator Rae  incorporated the letter in Hansard. In that letter the Minister said the Government wished the Committee to make recommendations for contributions towards recurrent expenditure in non-government schools for 1974 and 1975 on the basis of its assessment of needs and priorities. This was the first indication of a charge. The Minister said the government would not predetermine a basic level of support for all non-government schools after 1973. He said it would be for the Interim Committee to recommend the nature and level of support for recurrent expenditure in those schools during 1974 and 1975, having regard to the overall assessment of needs and priorities and to the pre-existing situation. I believe we can say that the Minister's letter changed the course of consideration of the needs of schools. 
The Committee subsequently found that Government assistance to category A schools could not be justified, but it believed that sudden termination of the financial aid on 6 months notice could place some of those schools in temporary difficulties. The Committee therefore recommended a gradual phasing out of the assistance over 1974 and 1975. Why, I ask, has the Government decided that the per capita grants to the reduced list of category A schools will cease at the end of this year? Why take this decision in spite of the often repeated promises by the Prime Minister and the Minister for Education that the old forms of assistance would continue? Could there be a clearer promise than the one made by the Prime Minister on this question at the Festival Hall on the occasion to which I have already referred? Could there be a clearer promise than the one made by the Minister for Education,  Mr Beazley,  in his paper in which he referred to 'whispering campaigns to the contrary'? He said: 'No private school under Labor will in future get less than the per capita grant it gets now'. 
What, I repeat, motivated the Government deliberately to dishonour promises made publicly on numerous occasions by its Prime Minister and the Minister responsible for the Bill? That is a question that should be asked by every person who is interested in following the progress of this Bill and in assessing the stand taken by the Opposition. I want to make it very clear that the Opposition supported, and continues to support, the Government's education program for 1974 and 1975, costing almost $700m. But we want the retention of the principle that every Australian child is entitled to assistance from the funds provided by Australian taxpayers, regardless of which school a parent selects for the child. 
Let me quote a recent statement made by the Headmaster of a secondary school in Western Australia which has now been released from category A. He said: 
I must continue to register my disapproval of the philosophy that allows a rich parent's child to receive maximum benefit by attending a particular school and a not-so-rich parent's child to receive less or none at another school. This is a perversion of justice in a system that is supposed to believe in equality of opportunity for all children. 
The amendments to be moved by the Opposition merely insist that the justice referred to by that headmaster continue to be followed. 
The issue is quite simple and cannot be clouded by the Government's misrepresentation of what is at stake. It is false to claim that only wealthy schools would be advantaged by the Opposition 's amendment. Under the Karmel Committee proposals which are included in this Bill 53 per cent of the secondary pupils in independent schools will receive less money than they would have received under the former Government's legislation. It is false to claim that the amendment involves additional expenditure of $114m. The sum involved is less than $5m a year. 
The extra cost argument advanced by the Government should be dismissed. The cost is insignificant in the total education commitment. But the Government defeats its own cost argument by granting every one of the 33,000 children in category A schools the right to free education in the tertiary institutions. I can only assume that the Government's reluctance to continue to grant aid on the promised level reflects very deep prejudice against non-government schools. I say quite firmly that there is no room for that type of prejudice in this Parliament. I repeat that the Country Party will strongly support the foreshadowed amendment and it makes no apology for adopting a stand that the Prime Minister himself took last year when he asked the people to give his Party the reins of Government. 
-Did the Minister for Primary Industry suggest, at the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organisation conference in Rome last month, an intensive study into whether world farm productivity is levelling out while demand is increasing? Did he forecast greater food storage activity to offset fluctuations in seasons? If he did, why did the Government reduce budgetary aid to Australian rural industries at a time when the Minister felt that world food productivity might be falling further behind demand? 
You will not have any trouble from me,  Mr Acting Deputy President.  Education in Australia certainly will be enhanced by the allocation of the funds provided in these 5 Bills that we are discussing. The Australian Country Party welcomes these Bills and desires to facilitate their passage.  Senator Rae  has said that the Liberal Party is not opposing these Bills. As has already been stated also, most of the financial provisions and projects dealt with in this legislation were initiated by the former Government. My only concern about these Bills is that once again- I think that I have to express this view in this chamber because it is a States House- we see the desire of the Government to take power from the States. I deplore this sort of thing. The Country Party supports these Bills. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister assisting the Minister for Defence, relates to the reorganisation of the Defence group of departments. Does not the proposed reorganisation of these departments underline the urgent need for a uniform disciplinary code for the Services? Can the Minister inform the Senate of the cause of the delay in this long overdue uniformity? What stage has been reached in Government consideration? When can it be expected that the code will be introduced? 
-The Minister representing the Treasurer will recall my question of 4 December about the merits of setting up a widely representative permanent Federal economic council to fight inflation. In view of the result of last Saturday's referendum, does the Minister now consider that the suggestion should be investigated as a matter of urgency? 
-The Australian Country Party believes that the amendments previously moved will be acceptable in this case. We will be supporting the Government. 
Question put: 
That the amendment  (Senator Rae's)  be agreed to. 
I ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs: Did Australia's Minister for Overseas Trade,  Dr J.  F. Cairns, attend a reception given in his honour by the South Vietnamese Provisional Revolutionary Government in Hanoi? What was the significance of the reception in  Dr Cairns'  5-day trade mission to North Vietnam? Was it not undiplomatic for a senior Australian Minister to attend a reception given by a revolutionary government when Australia has diplomatic relations with the Administration in Saigon? 
-The Australian Country Party is concerned with the structure of the Schools Commission as proposed by the Government. We are concerned because in our opinion the Commission will not always be representative of all the interested bodies and groups associated with education. I recall to the attention of the Senate what I said this time last week when we were dealing with this matter. I make it quite clear again that my Party supports the Karmel Committee report and most of its recommendations. At no time has the Country Party sought to destroy the concept of the Schools Commission. But having debated the matter- I think it is before the Senate for the third time- in view of the importance of getting the new education program under way and for the education authorities, the States and the parents to understand and know where they are going in February of next year, my Party will not persist with its objection to this aspect of the Government's Bill. 
I believe that every Australian has an interest in education and hopes that the Government will honour the undertakings given in its pre-election promises and in this legislation. Whilst not all the undertakings of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  especially in relation to independent schools, have been honoured the new provisions in the Bill at least respect the rights of the State Departments of Education and the independent school authorities. For those reasons we support the recommendation of the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland).  In regard to clause 13 (3) (a) - 
Yes. I believe that this proposed amendment meets our request that the State Departments of Education and authorities connected with and responsible for non-government schools should be brought into consultation and co-operation. We believe that this is the only way in which the Schools Commission will make an acceptable and meaningful contribution to education. My Party believes that such an amendment to this clause is necessary to ensure that the Commission does not grow to a monolithic socialist bureaucracy. The Commission needs the flexibility of wide consultation and co-operation to give it a chance to succeed. We all hope that it will do that. For those reasons the Country Party supports the amendments. 
-The Australian Country Party is very pleased to see these additional amendments being made. We believe they are very necessary. We believe that the Government was remiss in not trying to explain how it intended to construct the advisory boards and how they were to function. This now is being spelt out. We also would like to insist that the composition and functions of the boards be prescribed by regulation so that if we should be unhappy about either we could have the right to object at a latter stage. We support the amendments. 
-Do the 
Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Government contend that the United States of America wants to control territory in South and North Vietnam? If not, will the Minister apologise to the United 
States for the statement made in Hanoi on Tuesday by the Australian Minister for Overseas Trade,  Dr J.  F. Cairns? Is not an apology necessary not only in the interests of Australia's foreign relations but also to attempt to repair the damage that  Dr Cairns'  statement will have done to our trade relations with other than communist countries? 
-The Australian Country Party welcomes and supports the Government's amendments to this BUI. The Bill, as amended, does not ensure justice for all children but it does guarantee that every Australian school child in 1974 and 1975 will share in the per capita finance made available by the Commonwealth. The public wrangle over this issue is regrettable. It would never have occurred had the Government in the first place honoured its clear undertaking to continue the level of aid given by the Liberal-Country Party coalition administration. If it had done so, this legislation would already have been passed, and passed without any fuss. My Party's standpoint on the per capita grant is quite simple. It is that every pupil should receive a basic grant from public funds regardless of which school he or she attends. No child should be penalised because some political party or some advisory board believes the wealth or poverty of a school should be the deciding factor. 
I make the Australian Country Party's position on the compromise quite clear. By supporting these amendments we have not agreed that grants to independent schools in category A should be phased out. However, no schools in that category would have received a grant or even one cent if our Party had not negotiated with the Government. These schools will now receive grants in 1974 and 1975, and it is those years, and those years alone, with which this legislation deals. I hope there is no further misunderstanding of the position. Despite its promises, the Australian Labor Party had adopted a rigid stance which would have disadvantaged thousands of pupils. The compromise arrangement, though it does involve a small phasing down for category A schools, was the best result possible in the circumstances. I confidently expect that we will be back in government at the end of the period with which we are dealing, and if we are we will implement our policies. If we are not, we will certainly continue to press the Government to adopt our policy of justice for all children. For the reasons I have given, the Country Party supports these amendments. 
I would like to thank you,  Mr President,  all the officers of the Parliament and all of those staff members who have assisted us in any way at all this year for their tolerance, their patience and their help under the heavy load imposed on us by the Australian Labor Party. I would also like to extend to honourable senators and to everyone who has assisted us here in the Parliament the compliments of the season on behalf of my Country Party colleagues. 
I move: 
That  Senator James  Joseph Webster be appointed  Chairman  of Committees. 
I also would like to take this opportunity on behalf of myself and my colleagues in this corner of joining you,  Mr President,  the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  and the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Withers)  in paying tribute to the services given by  Senator Prowse  to this Parliament and to the Senate in particular. When I came into politics Edgar Prowse was Leader of the Country and Democratic League in Western Australia. We had a close association which became closer on his election to this place where the two of us for nearly 12 years represented Western Australia as the 2 Country Party senators from that State. As you,  Mr President,  said, ex-Senator Prowse has retired from this place because of ill health. I think no one has regretted that necessity more than he. He was determined that he would not sit in this chamber and not make a contribution to the debates or take part in proceedings as  Deputy President  of the Senate. So he decided he would get out. I saw him the other day, as did many other honourable senators, and I think he is looking very much better for his stay away from this place. 
As has been said, Edgar Prowse was a farmer. He took a degree in agricultural science before he went farming. He commenced farming during the depression and one of the first things he did was to join a farmers' organisation in Western Australia, and it was not long before he was leading the hold-up of the delivery of wheat at a siding in Western Australia. One can imagine his little moustache bristling as he faced the farmers coming in with their waggon-loads of wheat and telling them that they could not deliver it to the siding because the growers were not at that time getting enough payment for their wheat. 
-Yes, and with a left-wing organisation, too. He then went on to play a part in the meat industry in an organisation now known as the Farmers' Union of Western Australia Inc. As  Senator Murphy  has already cited, on coming into the Senate we have seen the interest which  Senator Prowse  displayed in this place in trade and secondary industry. He was  chairman  of the Senate Standing Committee on Industry and Trade. Then he was appointed to the Senate Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts, reflecting his university training and his interest in education. Recently he was appointed to represent this Party as a member of the Joint Committee on Prices which the Parliament set up. Overall  Senator Prowse  has shown a very deep knowledge of all subjects in which he has been involved. He was a great worker. In fact I remember him telling me once, when he was  President  of the Western Australian branch of the Australian Country Party, that I did not get around Western Australia enough. I had to do a bit more at that time. Perhaps some other Senators could not keep up with me. We on this side of the chamber were very pleased indeed, as representatives of the Country Party, to see the way in which  Senator Prowse  represented our Party and Western Australia in this chamber. 1 extend to him and his wife a long and happy future out of politics. 
I think the warmth of the expressions of condolence made by  Senator Murphy  and  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson is a fine tribute to the late  Senator John  McCallum. I am very pleased to associate myself and the other members of the Australian Country Party with those expressions. As a parliamentarian, John McCallum probably will be remembered for his work as  Chairman  of the Senate select committee which inquired into and reported upon the development of Canberra, and later as 

 Chairman of the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory, although he was also a prominent member of other Senate committees. I believe that the Senate select committee which inquired into and reported upon the development of Canberra was the basis for the development of the magnificent city of Canberra. I remember John McCallum. I remember his genuine friendliness to all in the Senate and his great charm, and I clearly recall his contributions to debates in the Senate while I was a senator. Those contributions always reflected the wealth of knowledge and wisdom which he gained before being elected to the Senate- in the years that he was a teacher and a scholar. I wish to associate my Party and myself with the remarks of previous speakers and to extend our sympathy to his family. 

 - Mr President, my notice has some substance in it. I give notice that, contingent on the  President  proceeding to the placing of business on any day, I shall move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent  Senator Drake-Brockman  moving a motion relating to the Order of Business on the notice paper. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry. Does the Australian Labor Party's rural platform lay down that Labor shall provide fertiliser subsidies? Was this provision part of the platform when Labor campaigned in 1972? Did it not remain in the platform after the Party's conference at Surfers Paradise last July? If the answer to both questions is yes, is not the Labor Government guilty of deceiving Australia's rural sector and of abandoning its stated and published policies by announcing the withdrawal of the present superphosphate bounty? 
I ask the Minister for Primary Industry: In view of the 
Labor Government's decision to bypass its own Caucus rural committee and announce the withdrawal of the superphosphate subsidy, does the Minister regard his Green Paper group inquiring into all aspects of rural policy as wasting its time and the time of the many organisations making detailed submissions to the group? Cabinet has demonstrated by its decision on the superphosphate bounty that it is prepared not only to disregard some committees set up to help the Government in decision making, but also to ignore decisions made by them. Does the Minister see such a group as likely to be useful as an instrument in preventing Cabinet from going it alone in future? 
-What action did the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs take to protect the officers of his Department when information was conveyed to his ministerial staff on Wednesday evening that an incident was planned by agitators at the Department offices on the Thursday? Was the Minister aware that all but five of his departmental officers took leave as a form of protest in support of  Mr Perkins  against the Permanent Head of the Department,  Mr Dexter?  Would the Minister agree that those who chose to remain at their desks should have received police protection at the direction of the Minister in view of the warning given to his office? 
We have had a similar debate from time to time in this place. I do not wish to detain the Senate. For the same reasons that have been put by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers),  I indicate to the Senate that the Australian Country Party will be opposed to the motion. 
I rise to indicate, for exactly the same reasons that I stated when I last spoke, that the Country Party opposes this motion. The only other comment I wish to make is that it is quite obvious that the passages that  Senator Greenwood  read out of Hansard of what  Senator Murphy  said on a previous occasion show the fiasco of what is going on now that that same gentleman has become the Leader of the Government in the Senate. 
I direct a question to the Minister Assisting the Minister for Defence. Can the Minister indicate to the Senate the present position concerning the completion of the Royal Australian Air Force base at Learmonth? Where is it proposed to post the members of the construction unit on completion of this project? When is it anticipated that the base will become operational by the RAAF? What role is the base to play in the immediate defence structure? 
-Senator McAuliffe knows and I know- I hope the people who are listening will not forget it- that a great put-on is proceeding here tonight. 
I just wonder how a lot of you blokes got over that side. 
I want to make clear to the Senate the position of the Country Party. In doing so I want to say firstly that I support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Withers).  I have been quite surprised tonight at the attitude taken by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Murphy).  I well recall that when he was Leader of the Opposition in the Senate he always contended that when a Bill was introduced here the adjournment should be taken to allow him and members of his Party sufficient time to study it. He would also contend that if there were senators on his side of the chamber who wished to speak on a Bill they should be given that opportunity. When  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson was Leader of the Government in the Senate he always ensured that opportunities were given. One has only to look back through Hansard to see that. 
I could cite innumerable cases, including that which the Leader of the Government in the Senate has just stated. I read it tonight. At that time the Leader of the Opposition made the point that the debate should be continued until all senators on his side who wanted to speak had been given the opportunity. 
Yes. Let us have a look at this situation. When  Senator Murphy  as Leader of the Opposition made that statement the Government of the day dealt with fewer than 100 Bills in that sessional period. Last year the Government introduced into the Senate and dealt with 253 Bills. On 20 November last it introduced into the Senate the Bills to which  Senator Murphy  referred tonight in his second reading speech. Yet on 14 December we were gone from this place. We dealt with those measures in a mass of Bills, yet  Senator Murphy  indicates to us now that we had plenty of time to study them. When  Senator Murphy  was Leader of the Opposition, dealing with fewer than half the number of Bills we dealt with last year, he said that the Government was going too quickly and should give the Opposition better opportunities to study the Bills and should allow every Opposition senator who wanted to speak on a Bill an opportunity to do so. 
Tonight  Senator Murphy  has introduced Bills into the Senate and wants to get them through here only a few hours after they were steamrolled through the House of Representatives. When debate on a Bill is gagged in the House of Representatives just before dinner and the Bill is introduced into the Senate at 8 p.m., the Opposition Parties should have a better opportunity to look at it. They should be given sufficient time particularly in view of the situation which pertained last December. The Country Party has 5 representatives in the Senate. We cannot refer matters to be studied by great committees which can make recommendations. 
I believe that the interjection of  Senator McManus  is correct. We have not been given sufficient time to study these Bills and to make up our minds as to what we are going to do. 
We indicated that at a time when Bills were going through this place like hay through a chaffcutter. Now, the Leader of the Government in the Senate wants us to let the Bills pass through the Senate tonight. I want to indicate also that my Party is adamant that we will not have the fiasco that we had last year when the Address-in-Reply was presented to the Governor-General some time at the latter end of the year. 
-Senator McLaren says that it was not the Government's fault. I would not know whose fault it was if it was not the Government's fault. We are adamant, because of the economic position and because of the situation in the rural industries, that we will have our say on the Address-in-Reply and that we will have it now, this week. Because of what is provided in the Standing Orders, we believe that we have that right to do that. Therefore, as soon as we have completed the AddressinReply debate- we will assist the Government to facilitate that- then we will get on to the Bills that it wants to bring before the Senate. But the members of my Party say that we will not do anything until we have concluded the AddressinReply debate. If we are to stay here all night arguing this situation, I say to the Leader of the Government that we will not finish the AddressinReply debate, as we believe we could finish it, by next Tuesday. It will be next Wednesday or next Thursday, depending on how long we spend now arguing this matter. I believe that we should get this situation over and done with. We promise the Government that if we can conclude the Address-in-Reply debate we will get on with these Bills next week. 
-Does the Minister for Primary Industry agree that the Australian farming community is confused by the situation which has developed over the future of the superphosphate bounty? Has the confusion been caused by the Prime Minister's announcement of a major policy decision which subsequently may be reversed by Labor Caucus? Has the matter been further aggravated by the fact that neither the full Labor Caucus nor the Caucus rural committee was consulted before the decision was announced and because an interdepartmental committee which examined the proposal recommended, by an eight to one majority, that the bounty issue be referred to the Industries Assistance Commission? 
-My question is addressed to the Minister assisting the Minister for Defence. Has the Government decided to proceed with an Army proposal to establish a major field training base near Derby in Western Australia? As such a base would require adequate air transport facilities, is it planned to construct an airstrip on the site or will the present airport at Derby be upgraded to handle the new requirement and the increased usage? 
Without going through all the arguments we went through last night, and having listened to all the reasons put forward as to why the Opposition will not pass these measures and how it is looking for ways of getting out of passing them, let me just say that the Australian Country Party adheres to the stand that it took last night: It believes that we should conclude the Address-in-Reply debate before we deal with these Bills. We are giving every assistance we can to the Government to enable this course to be followed. But I was rather intrigued just a few moments ago when I heard  Senator Murphy  say that if we do not pass these Bills we will not enable the Government to get on with its plan. All I want to say is that while the Labor Party has been in government- for well over 12 months now- we have been threatened with a double dissolution. 
Despite all that, we have now reached the stage that we do not even know when the Senate election will be held. Surely those honourable senators who are coming up for re-election should know when this election will be held. One can recall the Leader of the then Opposition saying in this place that the Government should indicate to the people of Australia when there would be a House of Representatives election in 1972. He was saying that 6 months before the election was even due to take place. It has been the practice in the past to hold a Senate election at the end of the year before the year in which the 6-year term of an honourable senator expires. But here we are in March and the term of some honourable senators is due to end on 30 June. Yet no one has been told when the election is to be held. 
-One expects that it will be, but no one has told us yet. Then  Senator Murphy  comes along with all this nonsense that he went on with last night and says that we are hindering and looking for ways not to be in a position to pass this legislation. Let us get on with this and we will give the Government the Bills next week. 

 - Senator O'Byrne, who has just resumed his seat, began his speech by describing the arguments put forward by Opposition senators as humbug and hypocrisy. I consider that language to be unparliamentary. I think the only reason why the honourable senator used it was because he has become frustrated by the fact that the argument on this matter has been going on since 5.50 p.m. yesterday. The Senate will recall that at 5.50 p.m. yesterday the Leader of the Government in the Senate (Senate Murphy) sought the adjournment of the debate on the Address-in-Reply to the Speech of  Her 
Majesty the Queen for the purpose of introducing into the Senate 4 messages that had been received from the House of Representatives. After the first message, which concerned the Constitution Alteration (Democratic Elections) Bill, had been read the Leader of the Government sought the suspension of so much of the Standing Orders as would prevent the Bill being passed through all its stages without delay, to which the Opposition agreed. He then sought the suspension of standing order 242, which was refused. The Leader of the Government then called upon the Bill to be read a first time, which was agreed to. He then moved that the Bill be read a second time and made his second reading speech. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers)  then sought the adjournment of the debate on the motion that the Bill be read a second time and that was agreed to. The Leader of the Government then moved for the resumption of the debate to be made an order of the day for the next day of sitting. The Leader of the Opposition proposed an amendment to that motion. He moved that the resumption of the debate be made an order of the day for 13 March. That amendment was moved with one reason in mind; that was to enable the Senate to complete the debate on the Address-in-Reply to  Her  Majesty's Speech which was delivered at the opening of this Parliament. Opposition senators believed that that debate should be finalised as is set out in standing order 14, before we dealt with legislation. If they were the thoughts of Opposition senators and if the Leader of the Government in the Senate realised this, surely he could have delayed the passage of the 4 Bills and saved all this argument. From 8 o'clock last night to shortly after 1 1 o'clock, and from 1 1 o'clock this morning to 3.45 this afternoon, with the exception of one hour for question time, who has been prolonging the debate?  Senator O  'Byrne accused Opposition senators of doing it, but he rambled on from 3.26 until just before 3.45. 
I know you did not. We are used to  Senator O'Byrne  speaking for well over an hour. He read out the formal amendment proposed by the DLP, and passed a few remarks about it. What is all the argument about? The Leader of the Government has introduced a Bill and has moved that so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the Bill being passed through all its stages without delay. I, on behalf of my Party, agree to this course in relation to the other 3 Bills, and I would have agreed to it again; but shortly after the Leader of the Government moved his motion the DLP introduced an amendment which I did not see until the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition was speaking. Having seen it and having read it, I agree with the matters of principle set out in it. The Opposition parties have indicated that they are quite happy with the other Bills being read a first time, the second reading speeches being presented and the debates being resumed on 13 March. What will happen if the DLP's amendment is carried? Firstly, the Bill will be read a first time. The Leader of the Government will not be able to make his second reading speech, but he has the right to endeavour to make it on Tuesday. If the Senate so desires, the resumption of the debate can be carried over to 13 March, which is the date on which the debate on the other Bills will be resumed. Why all this argument? For the reasons which I have just explained to the Senate, the Country Party will support the amendment moved by the DLP. 
Does the Minister representing the Minister for Defence recall my question asked on 6 December last relating to the long delay in introducing a uniform disciplinary code for the Services? Did he state in his reply that a report which would form the basis of a new bill covering a uniform code was almost complete? Will he now say whether the Government has received the report? Will he also say whether the Government will introduce the legislation with the same sense of urgency that it professed to attach to this matter when it was in Opposition? 
I ask the 
Minister for Primary Industry: What steps has he taken to attempt to break the impasse over meat inspections in Western Australia? Are consumers forced to pay the cost of dual inspections carried out by State as well as Commonwealth officers? Will the Minister continue the efforts of his predecessor, my colleague the former Minister for Primary Industry, to provide for a single inspection system performing both Commonwealth and State inspection requirements? Does the Minister realise that the absurdity of the present dual system has been accentuated by a recent shock decision of the Western Australian Labor Government to increase its inspection fees steeply? If no initiative has been taken by the Minister, will he immediately take action to relieve Western Australian meat consumers of the unnecessary additional costs now to be passed on to them? 
-My question, addressed to the Minister for Customs and Excise, follows the answer he gave to  Senator Mulvihill.  Are we to believe that the meeting in Western Australia between the Minister for the Environment and Conservation,  Dr Cass,  and the Western Australian Minister for Fisheries and Fauna in regard to the lifting of the ban on the export of kangaroo products was a lot of ballyhoo for local consumption, because in interviews with both Ministers it was stated on the media that this would lead to the lifting of the ban on the export of kangaroo products? What is the position in regard to America where I understand that last year there was a threat in regard to imports of kangaroo products into that country if the Minister here did not take action? 
-Senator O'Byrne, who has just resumed his seat, talked about the lame duck, rump of an Opposition. He is an expert on this subject because he served for 23 years in such an Opposition. He should know, if anyone knows. The honourable senator read us a portion of the Grants Commission's report. He named the members of the Commission. 
All honourable senators know their names.  Senator O'Byrne  did not read out how much money the Grants Commission has made available to local government authorities in the various States. 
I do not know, but  Senator O'Byrne  did not tell us. I know that in my home State of Western Australia members of the local government association and members of the shire councils association have been very disappointed at the Grants Commission legislation. In fact, many of them have said that they would not join the regions. That is how they felt about the legislation. Further, they held a special conference in Perth. No Australian Labor Party member attended, although an invitation was issued. The Opposition had the privilege of having  Senator Sim  there to explain the situation to them. 
-It was a great advert, yes- a very good one indeed. The result of that conference was that they felt that the whole setup of the Grants Commission was wrong. They want Western Australian members of Parliament and senators to move amendments to that legislation because they believe that the money which is made available to local government authorities should be made available to the States for distribution by the States according to a formula which has been agreed to by representatives of local government authorities and State authorities. That is the kind of amendment which Opposition senators moved in this place when the legislation was debated. That is what local government wants. 

 Senator O'Byrne said that the Government is doing a great thing and that it was given a mandate to do so. Before the 1972 election the then Opposition made great play about local government. Local government was fooled by the policies put forward by the then Opposition. It is waking up now. All we are saying about this Bill is: 'Do not be fooled by the Government again'. That is what we are saying. I think that a lot of shire councillors and municipal councillors are aware of what the Government is trying to do, and they will look very carefully at this legislation. I was very glad to hear  Senator Greenwood  drag out tonight some of the problems, and he had to drag them out because the Opposition did everything that it could to prevent  Senator Greenwood  being heard. I am sorry- the Government did. 
-It was a slip of the tongue. People on that side have made the same slip many times. I am sure that honourable senators on both sides of this House will agree with me when I say that the easing of the burden of local government ratepayers and the improving of municipal services is a worthy objective. The Australian Country Party recognises it as being a worthy objective and has always attempted to achieve it whenever and wherever it can. I have only to ask honourable senators to recall the election policies that have been put forward by the Country Party from time to time in regard to the helping of local government authorities with the provision of Federal finances. 
Notwithstanding that my Party is opposed to this Bill because it claims, without apologies, that the Government has introduced this measure with an ulterior motive. We believe that it will not bestow the benefits that local government has been led to think that it will. It is not necessary to alter the Constitution to alleviate local government's worsening financial position.  Senator Greenwood  made this point. The Federal Government needs only to make more money available through the States. This it has the power to do under the Constitution. That is what I said local government in Western Australia wanted. 
It is not a case of the Government of which I was a member not doing anything, because it did. It is a case of the present Government not doing the same thing because it thinks it has a better idea, but that better idea has not worked out. The local government authorities are waking up to this. I think all of us will admit that the local government bodies are the creation of the States and are bound by State laws. How they are financed is a matter solely for consultation, communication and agreement between the 2 levels of government within the State boundaries. My Party believes that that is the right forum for the consideration of local government's loan commitments, its financial programs, the burden of rates on the community and ultimately the drawing up of priorities in accordance with the needs and the funds available from the States with Commonwealth assistance. 
It is obvious that this can be done without the Commonwealth Constitution having to be changed. So one has to look for the reason why it is sought to change the Constitution. What is the hidden motive behind this Bill? I submit that it is more than just a phobia that is possessed by the Government to rewrite the Constitution. My Party sees it as another move by Labor towards the socialist goal of nationalising the means of production, distribution and exchange. Is it a bid to take over the powers given to the States at the time of Federation? Is it designed to undermine the authority of the States? Is that undermining essential to the success of the overall plan? If we permit the plan to continue and develop we will find sooner or later that we no longer have States or local government bodies in the form that we know them now. That is what I believe is behind this move. Despite their mounting financial difficulties, I am quite sure that the local government bodies and groups do not want a system under which they could be worse off than they are now. Very many of them have looked beyond the immediate financial attractions of the Government's proposals and have reviewed the proposals in the light of Labor's record on matters related to the rural sector and they do not like what they see. 
The local government bodies and groups. Local government is suspicious of the intentions behind the Bill. In many cases it is openly hostile to it, particularly in the State of Western Australia. One part of the Bill states that the Commonwealth Government will be able to make money available to local government on such terms and conditions as the Parliament sees fit. I ask all local councils and ratepayers not to overlook the words 'terms and conditions'. One has only to reflect upon some of the conditions that have been already imposed by the Government in its grants to the States to realise the stout stringsprobably choking strings- that will be attached to the grants made to local government. Even if there were no hidden traps in the Government's overall plan, local government bodies could not be advantaged by that part of the proposition which says that applications for financial assistance would be made on a regional basis. We believe- for  Senator Cavanagh  's information, that is my Party- that regionalisation of councils would create problems, not solve them, because of the wide variation in the particular financial problems which confront individual councils at any one time. It would be a complex problem for regions to sort out the priorities and just as great a problem for the Department responsible for the consideration and determination of applicationsthe Canberra-based Department of Urban and Regional Development. It is for those reasons and the reasons I outlined in response to the remarks of  Senator O'Byrne  that my Party believes that the Bill is unnecessary. My Party believes that the proposals are not only unacceptable but also in part unworkable. For those reasons my Party will oppose this Bill. 
-My question, which relates to the 2 Taiwanese fishing trawlers confiscated in Western Australia last year, is addressed to the Minister for Primary Industry. Are the vessels still in the Government's possession and has maintenance been carried out on them while they have been tied up? What action has been taken to dispose of them? Were they offered for sale by tender? What was the response? 

 Senator WRIEDT The 2 vessels referred to by the honourable senator were confiscated by the Australian Government last year as a result of their fishing inside the Australian declared fishing zone. The vessels are currently being held by the Australian Government under the control of the Department of Supply pending disposal by tender. There was a request from the original owners of the vessels in Taiwan to make them available again, I think by private treaty arrangements, to those owners. But the Government decided- I think quite correctly- that the vessels should be made available for sale by public tender. I understand that those tenders are currently being called. 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That leave be given to bring in a Bill for an Act to amend the Industries Assistance Commission Act 1973 
Did the 
Minister for Primary Industry base his reply to  Senator McLaren's  question this morning about oil prices on the examination of  Mr Anthony's  statement of the Country Party's energy policy or on Press reports? Is he aware that  Mr Anthony  sees wisdom in an oil price review immediately to cushion the effects of a much higher rise when the price is due for re-negotiation next year? Which is the better course of action? 
I can well appreciate the desire of the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  to amend the sitting hours of last session. I feel that sitting in the hour from 6 p.m. to 7 p.m. did not work. I can well understand why the Leader of the Government is moving this motion. I do not think the sitting hours of last session were a success. We had a pretty heavy work load in the last sessional period and, as usual, we had to have longer sitting hours. I understand that the Leader of the House in another place  (Mr Daly)  has indicated a program of sitting times until 13 June. At the time of making that announcement, he also said that the Parliament would be sitting longer hours and would have a heavier work load than in previous sessional periods. 
While I can understand  Senator Byrne's  feelings on this matter, I believe that at the beginning of the session we should sit longer hours to avoid the mad rush that we have at the end of sessional periods. I well recall  Senator Murphy  saying, when he was Leader of the Opposition, that we should not have late nights and a mad rush at the end of sessional periods. Since he has been Leader of the Government in the Senate he has been able to avoid the late nights but he has not been able to cope with the rush at the end of the sessional periods. Therefore it is the desire of my Party that we should sit for 2.5 hours on Tuesday nights and for 2.5 hours on Thursday nights. This would mean that we could get in an extra 5 hours a week. I hope that despite the deluge of Bills that will come before the Senate during this sessional period we will be able to avoid the usual mad rush at the end of the period. For that reason,  Mr President,  the Country Party supports the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers). 
In his concluding remarks  Senator Greenwood  spoke about the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  on national television saying what he and his Government were going to do about the referendum Bills. During his remarks the Prime Minister made great play of the fact that the Electoral Acts in the Commonwealth and in many of the States had been nothing less than a gerrymander. What the Prime Minister forgot to say when he was referring to this Bill was that it is a gerrymander Bill designed wholly and solely to favour the Labor Party and perpetuate it in office. When I look at the aims of the Government I am deeply thankful that the Opposition Parties in this Senate have a majority and are able therefore to give a lead to the people of Australia by voting against this Bill. 
The Bill proposes that electoral divisions in future will represent numbers of people rather than numbers of eligible voters. Clearly, as  Senator Greenwood  pointed out, this would result in the creation of more electorates in the densely populated areas where Labor Party supporters are concentrated. The Government sought to do this in another form in the Commonwealth Electoral Bill presented last year. That piece of blatant gerrymander was vigorously fought and defeated in this chamber. It was defeated largely on the grounds that it would have resulted in less representation in the national Parliament for rural industries and for the country people. The need for the vast nonmetropolitan areas of Australia to retain at least the present proportional representation in Canberra has been heavily underlined by the Labor Government's massive attack on the rural sector since December 1973. Labor's policy as now revealed, to its great discredit, is not only to kick them down but also to kick them out. 
This Government is so determined to execute a fix of the electoral system to help it remain in office after 23 years in the political wilderness that it has brought forward a proposition that is in direct contradiction of the one vote one value policy to which  Senator Greenwood  referred. Time and time again in both houses of this Parliament Labor has argued for that policy. Of course, the people of this country are accustomed, after only 15 months of Labor government, to broken promises, switched policies and abandoned platforms. Under Labor, these have become the rule rather than the exception. The people of Australia are now understandably suspicious of every Government proposal. It will come as no great surprise to them that Labor has abandoned its one vote one value policy. Fortunately, in this mood they are not likely to fall for the confidence trick that this is a genuine attempt to make elections more democratic. 
Perhaps  Mr Malcolm  Mackerras can be called an electoral expert. In the debates on these Bills last year, here and in the House of Representatives, his words were quoted. It is worth repeating that he said that the Bill we are now discussing would result in the greatest departure from the principle of one vote one value ever seen in the history of Australian House of Representatives elections. He cited figures, as others have done, showing the wide variations there would be in the percentages of voters in the electorates if the boundaries were to be determined on a population basis. Those figures cannot be challenged. They represent proof that the aim of this Bill is not to guarantee democratic elections, as the short title claims. In fact, the aim is the very opposite. I believe that this Bill should be retitled and that for the sake of honesty the title should be 'Constitution Alteration (Labor's Gerrymander) Bill'. 
The second main proposal of the Bill is to give the Federal Government the right to tell the States how they shall elect representatives to their own parliaments. I thought that this proposition would bring forth loud protests from both sides of the Senate, the House which exists to protect the rights and individuality of the States. But I hear no protest from the Government side- only a loud silence. 1 challenge Government senators to rise and declare that this proposition is not an attempt to strip the States of their fundamental rights. The States wrote their own Constitutions and are entitled to have them written to meet their own needs and wishes and their own particular circumstances. What right has the Federal Government to tell them how to elect their own parliamentary representatives? Clearly it has no right at all. This proposal should be seen for what it is- another unpardonable attack by a centralist government on State rights. My Party strongly supports the rejection of this Bill and appeals to the people to reject it when the issue goes to a referendum. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Minerals and energy aware that the Premier in the Western Australian Labor Government believes that the Alwest alumina project has been killed by the 
Federal Government's refusal to waive financial restrictions? Have the Premier and Western Australian mining industry leaders said that the development of Western Australia's mineral resources has been severely hindered by the Federal Government's decision to withdraw assistance and concessions? Will this latest decision increase the suspicion and uncertainty existing throughout Western Australia? 
I present the following petition from 185 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the undersigned persons believe that some literature and films being published and shown throughout Australia arc detrimental to the wellbeing of the Community. 
Your Petitioners thereby humbly pray that the Government will take steps to sec that the publication and availability of pornographic and other material of that nature is restricted and that the people are made aware of the dangers to the Community from such literature and films. 
And your Petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Primary Industry. In his discussions with officials of Papua New Guinea regarding the allocation of fishing rights to Papua New Guinea vessels in the Gulf of Carpentaria will he make a distinction in the allocation of rights between Papua New Guinea registered vessels which are owned by Middle East interests, notably Kuwait, and vessels which are owned by indigenous Papua New Guineans? Can the Minister indicate to the Senate on what basis that distinction will be made? 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
Honourable senators will recall that when the legislation to establish the Industries Assistance Commission was introduced last year, the Australian Country Party expressed its opposition to the proposal to establish such an organisation and opposed the legislation. It will be recalled that the Australian Country Party objected to the establishment of what we saw as a new bureaucratic central planning body with powers and influence of a kind that should reside only in the Government and the Parliament. We also expressed concern at what we saw as the ending of the long-established system of consultation and negotiation on a direct basis between industry and government. The Commission is now in operation, of course, and while our objections remain, the purpose of the Bill I have just introduced is to close a loophole which has become apparent. 
The recent decision of the Government to let the bounty on superphosphate lapse without having the matter examined by the Commission has brought this legislative loophole to light. I am sure that all honourable senators were under the impression- as I was- that any assistance measure of this kind would be referred to the Commission before the Government made a decision as to whether it should be abolished or continued. Section 23 (4) (h) of the Industries Assistance Commission Act says, in effect, taken in association with other clauses, that the Australian Government cannot suspend, withdraw, increase or reduce financial assistance provided to industry for a period exceeding 2 years without a prior reference to the Commission. I think that this would have been taken by most people to mean that the long-standing fertiliser bounty assistance, for example, could not be withdrawn without a reference to the Commission. 
However, a legislative subtlety allows the Minister administering the Act to escape this requirement. Section 23 (3) says that the Minister 'Shall not take any action' on the matters referred to in Section 4, including paragraph (h), before reference to the Commission. Thus, the Minister is able to claim that in allowing legislation to lapse he is not 'taking action'. He is simply allowing something to expire. This Bill provides that where assistance has been provided or is being provided under legislation, and the assistance will lapse with the expiration of the legislation, the Minister is legally obliged to refer the matter to the Commission for inquiry and report. 
To express it in the simplest terms, the Bill says that what has been provided in the past in the way of assistance should not be taken away without the recommendation of the Commission. Faced with the reality of the commission, the Country Party believes the Government should not be able to pick and choose amongst the matters to be referred to the Commission. This Bill obviously would have specific application to the fertiliser bounties which are scheduled to expire at the end of this year, but other legislation also would be affected. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Wriedt)  adjourned. 
I rise to support the remarks made by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition,  Senator Greenwood,  and also by  Senator Wright.  I wish to take the matter a little further, but I shall not do so in speaking to this motion. I shall use the forms of the Senate to do so at a later opportunity. 
The Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland),  who is standing in for the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Murphy),  has asked us to reverse the sessional order whereby General Business takes precedence of Government Business after 2.30 p.m. on Thursdays. He is asking the Senate to do the opposite of what is the general practice.  His  reason for asking us to do this is that there. is certain legislation which the Government wants to put through. I agree with the action that the Minister for the Media has taken. 1 think the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers),  the Leader of the Australian Democratic Labor Party  (Senator McManus)  and I indicated earlier in this sessional period that when this legislation came before the Parliament we would give it a swift passage through the Parliament. 
But I want to express my concern- I refrained from doing so on a previous motion- at the way in which this Senate is beginning to operate. This is the fourth Thursday on which the Parliament has sat during this sessional period. On the first Thursday in the session we heard the Speech of  Her  Majesty the Queen. We recognise that we could not deal with General Business on that day. On the following Thursday the Opposition parties gave way to the Government in regard to debating General Business so that the Government could get on and deal with the AddressinReply because we believe that under standing order 14 the Address-in- Reply debate should be got out of the way before any General Business debate takes place in this chamber. When the referenda Bills were introduced into this chamber the Government said that it was anxious that these Bills be put through the Senate immediately. The Senate objected to this and said that the Address-in-Reply debate should be concluded and then the referenda Bills-would be given a swift passage through this chamber. The Opposition parties saw to it that that course was followed and again went so far as to give up the debate on General Business on Thursday afternoon so that that could be done. 
Today is the fourth Thursday of this sessional period and the Government has again requested the Opposition to give up to Government business what I believe is a vital period in the parliamentary week. On behalf of my Party, I indicate that I have no objection to giving up the debate on General Business because I accept the reasons put forward by the Minister for the Media. I am sure that I am quoting the words of the present Leader of the Government in the Senate when he was Leader of the Opposition when I say that that portion of the parliamentary week which is set aside for the discussion of General Business is a most vital period to the Opposition parties and to the back bench members of this Parliament. It is the time in which they can discuss and debate vital issues affecting the economy of this country and matters that they believe are of great importance to the electors. 
It has been said- it was said today by the Leader of the Government- that the Senate is frustrating the Government's legislative program. Let us just have a look at the situation. Earlier in this sessional period the Leader of the Government put down a motion relating to the times of sitting of the Senate. When that motion was debated the Leader of the Opposition said that he believed that the Senate should sit for longer hours each day in the parliamentary week than was proposed by the Leader of the Government. That motion was not carried but an amendment moved by the Democratic Labor Party that we should sit on Tuesday nights, which the Leader of the Government had not included as part of his motion, was carried. So the Senate is sitting longer hours than was proposed by the Leader of the Government. I do not believe that the Opposition parties have obstructed the Government. In fact, they have gone out of their way to provide the Government with more hours in the week in which to debate its business. 
I was most perturbed this morning when I heard the Leader of the Government say that the Government was thinking of cutting down on question time. I believe that question time is a most important part of the Senate's proceedings. I know that when Government senators were on the Opposition benches they would have been very concerned if the Leader of the Government at that time had made any mention of cutting short question time. The cutting short of question time is a very retrograde step. I can assure the Minister for the Media and the Leader of the Government that my Party will oppose any such proposal. I hope that the Leader of the Government will talk to the Leaders of the Opposition parties about this matter so that we can ensure that the arrangement which we have enjoyed in the past in this regard is maintained. 
I was very concerned, too, to hear the Leader of the Government today refer to the Opposition as a motley collection of parties. I see no reason for this and 1 am quite sure that such comments do nothing to help the running of the Senate. I would hope that the Leader of the Government would cease talking this way. I was also concerned to hear  Senator McManus  speak this morning in the way he did about the lack of communication that exists between the Leader of the Government and the Leader of the Democratic Labor Party. I recognise his concern because I have had things happen to me in the same way. Fortunately, I am in a position where the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers)  and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Greenwood)  do have a talk with me each morning, and what little information is available from the Leader of the Government is passed on to me. But my colleague the Leader of the Democratic Labor Party  (Senator McManus)  does not enjoy this privilege. I believe that if the Government wants this Senate to function in a proper manner there should be some level of dialogue between the Leader of the Government and the Leader of the DLP. I believe there should be greater dialogue with the Leader of the Opposition and me because we are vitally involved in this. 
I agree with the request that has been made to the chamber. I have a great deal of concern as to the future running of this chamber because I understand that the Leader of the House in another place has said that this sessional period will have a much heavier workload than the previous sessional period. If this is to be the case I believe there must be a great deal of give and take between the Government and Opposition Parties. I just say to the Acting Leader of the Government that I support him on this basis. 
-Does the 
Minister for Primary Industry share the Prime Minister's view that the Government's rural policies were not to blame for the Labor Government 's defeat in the Western Australian elections on Saturday? Is the Minister aware that 5 days before the elections 6,000 farmers held a protest meeting at Subiaco Oval? Does he know that this was the biggest meeting of farmers ever held in Western Australia? Did not the Prime Minister and the Minister for Primary Industry receive invitations to attend the meeting? As both the Prime Minister and the Minister for Primary Industry were in Perth at the time of the meeting why did they not attend or at least send representatives to the meeting? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry who will recall that yesterday at question time he enumerated measures that the Government had taken to assist primary industry. Was that a balanced account of the situation? Why did the Minister not say anything of the sharply increased production costs brought about by a series of economic measures introduced by this Government? Why did the Minister not refer to increased interest rates, increased telephone installation and rental charges, increased fuel charges and reduced incomes through currency revaluation, to mention but a few? Does the Minister deny that many primary producers are presently experiencing great difficulty in earning a reasonable profit from their enterprise? Were not these some of the reasons for the mass farmers meeting at Subiaco Oval? 
I ask the Leader of the Government: Can he say when  Senator Gair  accepted the terms and conditions of his appointment? On what day was he informed of those terms and conditions? On what day was the first payment made to  Senator Gair  in his capacity as Ambassador? 
by leave- The Australian Country Party would like to be associated with the remarks made by the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Senator Willesee)  and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Greenwood). 
Will the Minister Assisting the Minister for Defence confirm that the Government has decided to purchase 2 patrol frigates from the United States of America at a cost of $ 1 87m? If he confirms this, has the Government broken a promise given by the Minister for Defence in the House of Representatives on 23 May last? Did the Minister for Defence say on that date that, whatever decision was reached by the Government on the DDL or alternative project for the Australian Navy, he would give an unequivocal assurance that the destroyers would be built in Australia at the Williamstown dockyard? 
-My ques  tion is addressed to the Minister for Primary Industry. I refer to the action of unionists in refusing to permit the export of livestock on the basis that it is endangering abattoir employment. Is the Minister prepared to condone a position in which contracts are in danger and a valuable trade is in jeopardy because of the attitude of union officials, or has the Minister intervened? Has he had discussions with the union or with the Minister for Labour? 

 - Senator Wilkinson referred in his speech to  Senator Wright's  contribution to this debate and to his legal background.  Senator Wilkinson,  as a layman, proceeded to build his case by reference to sections 45 and 47 of the Australian Constitution. He went on to say that we should not come down in favour of this motion or the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Withers). 
I would go along with what the honourable senator said in relation to the Constitution in making out his case if it were not for what appears in the House of Representatives Hansard record of 2 August 1946. On the adjournment debate that night a number of members of the House of Representatives paid tribute to  Mr Makin,  who was then Minister for the Navy, Minister for Munitions and Minister for Aircraft Production, on his appointment as Australia's first Ambassador to the United States of America. It is rather interesting to read how, after about six or seven speeches had been made,  Mr Makin  referred to his parliamentary life, what happened during his career, how he had enjoyed it, had gone on finally to Become the Minister for the Navy and capped his career by being appointed as Australia's first Ambassador to the United States of America. On 2 August 1946 he said: 
. I have been further honoured; the Government has appointed me as its first Ambassador to the United States of America. 
If one delves further into history one sees that  Mr Makin  resigned from the House of Representatives on 14 August. If I went along with the argument put forward by  Senator Wilkinson,  surely  Mr Makin  must have been appointed to an office of profit and was accepting his parliamentary salary as well as his ambassadorial salary. 
-I am sure that he did not do that. I am sure that the Government of the day, a Labor government, would have made sure that he did not do it. One can cite other similar instances. I recall that when I was a Minister the Government of the day appointed  Senator Dame  Annabelle Rankin as High Commissioner to New Zealand. We all knew in this place that  Senator Dame  Annabelle had been so appointed. But it was some time after it came to be known in this place that she resigned from the Senate. At that time I did not hear any honourable senator on the Opposition side raise any concern over her appointment or her resignation. A case very much closer to me involved my colleague, ex-Senator Prowse. He told me that he had been to a doctor who had recommended that he get out of Parliament. I had to study the Standing Orders and the Constitution and abide by what they set down to ensure that he resigned from the Senate in the proper manner. I had to do this. 
-It is the same thing. If I had not done so his replacement would not be here. Why in these circumstances could the same procedures not have been followed? They could not be followed because the Government would not have been able to fill the vacancy in the way it wanted to and at the time it wanted to do it. 
The case under the discussion is totally different from the 3 cases that I have mentioned. I believe that this is a crisis which is very serious indeed. To me this case reeks of premeditated scheming and a disregard for political morals. We have had many crises in this Senate. One has only to think of the VIP flight crisis in which honourable senators who are on the Government side but who were on the Opposition side at that time tried to bring down the Government of the day because they believed that they had a very good case. They believed that there was a situation in which the Minister responsible was acting improperly. When one thinks about how VIP flights are run these days, what happened during the early stages when this Government came into office and what happened in regard to the transporting of members' families and so on, surely we could have raised a VIP issue with just as much force as did Opposition senators in earlier days. Other crises involved Jetair Australia Ltd and the Hoffmann case. One of our Senate colleagues paid a very high price for his administration of that portfolio and for the criticism that was levelled at him by then Opposition senators. 
I was very concerned last week and also this week when I found out from answers to questions that the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  was inclined to say that Opposition senators were not able and did not have the right to question him in detail on these matters. This is a very different story from what happened in 1970 when I was Minister. I remember very vividly the case of an aircraftsman who went absent without leave. I can recall sitting in the place now occupied by  Senator Bishop  and being grilled by the then Opposition Leader in this place as though I were in some court. 
The honourable senator who interjected is aware of this. He went through this on the Jetair business. It is wrong for the present Leader of the Government in the Senate, who has the responsibility for this case, to stand up and say that Opposition senators are not allowed to ask questions or to ask them in much greater detail than he would desire. It is plain that the Government has been dishonest in this case. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has said that the Honourable V. C. Gair was appointed on 14 March.  Senator Murphy,  who is the Leader of the Government in this place, said in answer to questions the other day that the appointment was no later than 2 1 March. Then we had the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Senator Willesee)  saying that the appointment was formal on 3 April. At the same time that Minister admitted that the Honourable V. C. Gair was only Ambassador designate. We had a further elucidation today on this matter, also by that Minister. But whatever the situation is I believe that the Parliament and the people of this country have been hoodwinked. I believe that the people are entitled to be disgusted with the Prime Minister who has schemed to gain a majority vote in this Senate in order to reverse the balance of power given by the people in a democratic vote. 
I believe that the Prime Minister and his Government can be likened to a group of men who set out to plan the perfect crime. Honourable senators can imagine these men examining all the wherefores and the whyfores. If they take this action they will get a certain result; if they take another action, they will get a different result. So these people plan the situation very carefully. But like many people in this situation, they disregard one important fact. I am not saying for a minute that the Prime Minister and his Cabinet colleagues disregarded a particular fact. What I am saying is that they did not place the importance on one particular fact that they should have placed on it. That is the issuing of the writs. They thought that they could overcome that problem when they came to it. But like most offenders, they slipped up on one vital point and it has brought their scheme undone. I am sure that their sordid actions have not been obliterated from the memories of the people of this country. 
I come to the way in which appointments are made. I said earlier in my remarks that we have had examples of appointments made. I referred to  Mr Makin  and the former  Senator Dame  Annabelle Rankin. It is quite traditional for a person to resign so that he or she can take up another appointment. It is not traditional for an appointment to be made in order to gain a resignation from Parliament. That is the point that counts in this case. Let me talk about the acceptance of the appointment. How does the Government explain away the fact that the terms and conditions of appointment were signed on 3 April 1 974 if  Senator Gair  was, in fact, Ambassador to Ireland on 14 or 2 1 March 1974? How was  Senator Gair  to accept an appointment without knowing the terms and conditions? Is it not logical that he should wait and learn the terms and conditions before he agreed to accept them? 
Quite so. Surely what I am saying tallies with the reported statement, to which  Senator Wright  referred, made by  Senator Gair  when he returned to Brisbane last Wednesday. He said that he believed he had resigned from the Senate on that day. 
I am not talking about the one that was different. I did not see it. I am developing my case. We know when the terms and conditions were drawn up.  Senator 
Willesee, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, said today that he was given the job of drawing up the terms and conditions in writing and that he did that on 3 April. Did not  Senator Gair  then have a look at those terms and conditions on that day, or did he accept the appointment before those terms and conditions were drawn up? I believe that the Government has shown itself to be guilty of connivance and trickery. I think that that has been borne out by the questions that have been asked in the Senate and by the statements that have been made which have been contradictory and misleading. The Government has abused the trust of the people. Therefore, I believe that it no longer has a mandate to govern. f now wish to say something about manipulation. Who can say that today or tomorrow or next month or next year the Government will not try to pull off a similar manipulation of the Parliament? I wonder whether there is sitting in the Senate amongst us another Opposition senator who is to lose his seat by being whisked away overseas post? Certainly, we would not be told if such an action had been taken. The Government, by its malpractices, has created an intolerable situation of doubt and suspicion. I believe that there is a gross offence against the Senate. Not only is the Senate competent to deal with the matter, but also it has a clear obligation to demonstrate by its vote that it will not again be used as a pawn in a rigged game of political chess. So we support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition. I hope that by doing so we will not see this sort of fiasco come before the Senate again. 
-My question is addressed to the Minister for Primary Industry. Yesterday in another place the Prime Minister said that rural producers' incomes were estimated to be rising by $ 1 billion a year. Does the Minister expect this growth to continue, in view of the fact that wool prices have slipped tragically in recent weeks, cattle prices have fallen and the indications are that the price trough shows no sign of bottoming out? Does the Minister support the Prime Minister's statement that the meat industry, like the rest of rural industry, has never had it so good and that this Government has signed more trade agreements with China than had been signed previously? If that latter statement is true, what agreements have been signed with China, and what have been the positive aspects of trade deals with China in dairy produce and meat? 
Before the suspension of the sitting the Senate was dealing with the Australian Capital Territory Representation (House of Representatives) Bill 1974. The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers)  had indicated that the Liberal Party was not opposed to the Bill. I indicate that my Party is not opposed to the Bill, but we have some concern about the procedures that are being adopted in this case. The Bill came before the House of Representatives and then was presented to the Senate with the full statutory time for the lodging of objections not having run out. I am very concerned that this situation has developed. I think that the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Senator Willesee)  will recognise as I do the procedures that have been followed. The Government has got the redistribution up to a certain stage. The Commissioners have drawn a line for the division of the electorates along the Molonglo River and I do not think that anyone has objection to that. Nor do I think that anyone has objection to the way in which the redistribution has been carried out. But I want to remind the Senate that there are specific steps to be taken in a redistributionabout fourteen of them- and that a period of 30 days must be allowed for the lodging of objections. This period has not elapsed. Yet the Government has seen fit to bring this measure before the Houses of Parliament and ask for it to be passed. We may be in agreement with it, but my concern is that this is becoming a practice with this Government. It believes that it can override all the constitutional procedures and the Standing Orders of the Senate. Now, it is trying to override the redistribution procedures as laid down in the Commonwealth Electoral Act 1918-1973. 
Who can say whether, in some 2 or 3 years time, someone will not be looking for a precedent and that this situation will not be held up to the Senate and to the House of Representatives as that precedent? It could be said that the Parliament did this in 1974 in relation to the redistribution in the Australian Capital Territory; it could be said that the Opposition accepted it then; why will not it be accepted now? This is my concern and the concern of my Party. Sufficient time has not been given for the lodging of objections and the Government has seen fit to present a Bill to the Parliament before the period laid down has elapsed. I am not saying that anyone will object, but I am concerned that this case could be used as a precedent in days to come. That is where my concern lies. But for all that, the Australian Country Party supports this measure. 
We are dealing with a report by the Commissioners appointed under the Commonwealth Electoral Act to make a redistribution of the electoral divisions in the State of Western Australia in accordance with the Act. This is something that all of us accept. 
The former Government took all possible steps in 1 972 to try to give Western Australia a tenth seat, but unfortunately by the time the final figures of the census came to hand on 27 September 1 972 there was not time to bring into operation a tenth seat in Western Australia. I recall the then Opposition 's criticism of this matter at the time. One has only to look at the records to see that the then Prime Minister on 28 September 1972 tabled the final census figures and at the time of tabling made a speech. He was followed by the then Minister for the Interior. I want to point out again that in a redistribution such as this there is a certain procedure to be followed and a certain time lapse must occur. In this case it takes about 28 to 30 weeks to carry out a redistribution. There are about 14 steps which have to be followed, and they are set out in the Constitution and in the Commonwealth Electoral Act. The former Government was not able to do what is now proposed. 
The Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Senator Willesee)  in his statement talks about a requirement of urgency but I would not have thought that we would have reached that stage because the Labor Party said, through its leader, now the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  that if elected, it would bring this legislation in as a matter of urgency. Yet eighteen months have passed before we are asked to deal with the redistribution in Western Australia. I believe that the criticism which was thrown up by the then Opposition is now rebounding on it as a Government. The other interesting matter which crops up in the statement is a point which the Minister for Foreign Affairs makes. It is that honourable senators of the Liberal Party and the Australian Country Party should agree to the motion. He said that the reason we should agree is the leading article in the 'West Australian' newspaper. It is rather interesting that the Government which has not exactly been in favour of the leading articles in the 'West Australian' in previous years has to use such an article as a bolster as to why Opposition senators should be favourable to the redistribution. It is interesting also to note in this redistribution the wide variations of percentages in the various divisions above and below the quota. In Kalgoorlie the number of electors is 15 per cent below the quota. Since the redistribution on 19 October last year in the electorate of Moore to which the Minister referred in his statement the number of persons on the electoral roll increased by well over 5 per cent. 
As a fellow member of the Australian Country Party 1 agree with the present holder of the seat of Moore that it is very difficult for a rural division to have so much metropolitan area included in it. That situation also acts against decentralisation. Moreover I think this points up Labor's policy of one vote one value. I find it very difficult to go along with that. As the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Withers)  pointed out, here is a division in regard to which the commissioners, in all good faith at the time of redistribution, could say that the quota shall be so and so, but because of a terrific increase in population in that area in 5 months the number is well above that quota. I think that this just points up the fallacy of this policy. 
The naming of electoral divisions is not the responsibility of the commissioners. In this case the commissioners in their report suggested that the proposed division should be named after a famous man in Western Australia- the man who was responsible for the construction of the Fremantle wharf and making Fremantle a deep water port, and the man who was responsible for the ambitious and, I think, famous water scheme in Western Australia. The Government has not seen fit to do this. It has seen fit to name the division Tangney. I have no strong objection to that. Dame Dorothy Tangney was a very well liked honourable senator in this place. She did an excellent job for Western Australia and I am pleased that the Government has given her name to the new division. I know that this is a difficult choice because C. Y. O'Connor does deserve some recognition, but the choice of names is the prerogative of the Government. In this case the Government has accepted the responsibility of naming the electorate Tangney. I accept that. I am pleased that Dorothy Tangney has received that honour. My Party accepts the proposition that has been put before us. 
by leave- The Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  talked about the arrogance of power. We on this side of the Senate have seen the arrogance of power for the last 18 months. We have seen the Government come into this chamber and state that it has a mandate from the people to do this and to do whatever it wants to do without any opposition from this side of the chamber. All I want to say to the Leader of the Government is that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  had a mandate to form a government, and that is all he had. The Australian Country Party is willing to support the Government and grant it Supply. Let us get on and do that. 
-My question is directed to the Minister Assisting the Minister for Defence. Will the Government secure a fixed price contract for the patrol frigates it intends to purchase from the United States of America? If not, can the Government be assured that the final cost will be only marginally higher than the $90m a ship announced on Sunday? Is the Minister aware that a conservative estimate of some informed people is that $200m a ship might be the final cost? In view of this estimate, is it possible that the Government could be committing Australia to a $400m payout for ships that the Navy considers inadequate? 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers)  has moved an amendment to the motion moved by the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Senator Willesee)  in relation to the adjournment of the debate. This amendment is a very serious step in the procedures of the Senate. I think there is ample justification for the extreme course of action which is proposed by the Opposition in this chamber. The Senate has reached the stage at which it no longer has confidence in the Government because of the contradictory and misleading statements by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Murphy).  All honourable senators recall that 16 months ago this Government came to office, and when the Parliament first sat continual calls were made from the Government side that if Opposition senators did not measure up and support the legislation which was being brought before the Senate there would be a double dissolution. There were continual cat-calls across the Senate by Government senators putting this proposition. The Opposition accepted the challenge from the beginning. We carried out the normal functions of any Opposition in that we studied in detail the proposed legislation that was placed before us. We criticised it, we amended it, we deferred it and we sent it to Senate committees so they could examine it further. 
-The Opposition. 
If after 16 months in government the honourable senator does not understand who is the Opposition, I will ignore him. We have had a criticism of the Prime Minister that he and his Government have reached the stage at which they are frustrated by a Senate which is deliberately trying to hold up Government legislation. What sort of Government do we have? Western Australia had a Labor Government which for 3 years worked with a hostile upper House. I think, from the election results, despite that Government's defeat, it must have worked pretty well judging by the support it got in the last State election. It did not cry out that it was hindered and could not get its legislation through because of a hostile upper House. It got on with the job. That is what this Government should have been doing. This is only a small part of it. When we look at what the Government has done, we see nothing but broken promises. The last time I did a count of the broken promises, I think there were about 30 which the Government put before the people and which it has forgotten. 
One only has to remember what was said by  Mr Grassby,  the Labor Party spokesman on primary industry prior to the 1972 election. He promised the people engaged in primary industry that a Labor government would make available loans at very low rates of interests. He said that such a proposal would cost only $18m to implement. What is the result? We have not heard from the Government one single thing about low interest rates. In fact, interest rates have been increased so much that an ordinary person who tries to buy a house these days has to pay from $20 to $30 a month more in interest charges alone- not in the capital cost of the house but just in interest charges- and a person who wants to buy a car on hire purchases has to pay $300 to $400 extra for that car. Yet we were told that we would have low interest rates. 
Honourable senators should look at how the Government has plundered and abandoned rural industry. The primary producers in Western Australia showed what they thought of the Government by their vote at the election in that State a few Saturdays ago. The Government will see what the primary producers think of it when it goes before them again very shortly. Inflation in this country has run unchecked and has now reached a rate of 14 per cent. Yet when the Labor Party came to government the inflation rate was just over 4 per cent. Before the Labor Party came to government it said, when questioning the Government of those days about inflation, that it was the responisbility of government to overcome inflation. Today, when the present Government is questioned about the increased rate of inflation, it says: 'It is a world problem. What are we to do about it? How can we act?' The Government has no answer at all to this problem. 
The strike situation in this country has been crippling industry and disrupting essential services, and all this has been done with the Government's encouragement. That is a great thing, is it not? I have said already the interest rates applying at present are the highest that this country has ever known. Before coming to power the Labor Party said that as a government it would reduce interest rates for the people of this country. The housing situation is hopeless. The Labor Government said that it would house the people of this country, but we find today that a young couple trying to set up a home have to pay more and more to do so as the days go by. Why has this situation been brought about? It has been brought about because of the crippling rates of interest and the inflation in this country. 
Let us have a look at defence. Today we heard the Minister for Repatriation  (Senator Bishop),  who represents in this chamber the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard),  talking about what the Government has done for the defence of this country. He spoke about how the Government has increased the pay and allowances of servicemen. I ask the Minister whether there were not four or five Kerr reports. Did this Government accept the recommendations contained in the Kerr reports, or were those recommendations accepted by the previous Government? The Minister does not mention that. He talks about how the Minister for Defence went to America and saved $30m. Let me remind the Minister that all Ministers for Defence in the previous Government indicated, when answering questions, that when the final cost of the Fill project was arrived at- and it could not be arrived at until the aircraft came to Australia- there had to be an accounting between the Australian authorities and the American authorities, and it was believed that that accounting would be in our favour. This great saving that the Minister for Defence obtained on his trip to America is the result of the difference in the 2 accounting systems. Or is the Minister going to tell me that the Government has obtained a $30m saving in the cost of the aircraft and that we can expect a further refund because of the difference in the 2 accounting systems? I expect the Minister to tell us any day now how the Government achieved this saving. 
-We are not holding up any pay. The Leader of the Opposition in the Senate has moved an amendment to  Senator Willesee  's motion. The Prime Minister has only to say 'yea' or 'nay' in relation to that amendment; there is no holding up of anything at all. 
Well, I do not know. I have mentioned some of the deficiencies that we have found in this Government's handling of the economic situation in Australia. The Leader of the Opposition mentioned such shameless situations as the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation affair which we debated in this chamber, the siege which took place at the Department of Aboriginal Affairs and, lastly, the Gair affair. I do not want to mention those matters again, but I believe that all of the things that have been mentioned here give the Opposition every justification for taking the extreme measure that it is taking. My colleagues in the Country Party and I support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate. 
I propose to the Senate for its  Chairman  of Committees,  Senator Webster.  I move: 
That  Senator James  Joseph Webster be appointed  Chairman  of Committees. 
On behalf of the Australian Country Party I wish to join in the congratulations being extended to you,  Mr President,  on your election by the Senate to the office of  President,  which is perhaps the highest honour that can be extended to any member of this place. We look forward to your living up to the high traditions set by your predecessor, a man who at all times demonstrated his interest in the Senate and its operations, a man who presided at all times with great calm and dignity. As one who has served in this place for many years as  Deputy President  and Acting  President  I wish to point out to the new members of this chamber that although quite often it would seem to be very easy for the occupant of the chair to make a decision, that is not always the case. Often it involves great consideration in a very short period. I am sure that you,  Sir, can  do it. May I, on behalf of my colleagues in the Australian Country Party, join with other honourable senators in expressing our appreciation to the retiring  President, Sir Magnus  Mccormack? My colleagues and I are deeply grateful for the way in which  Senator Sir Magnus  Mccormack presided at all times over this Senate and also outside it. I think he was a wonderful example to the presidents of this Senate. We are sorry to see you go,  Sir, but,  as has been said by the Leader of the Government in the Senate, this is the way of politics. To you,  Mr President,  may we extend our best wishes for your term as  President  of this Senate. 
I wish to add my congratulations to  Senator Murphy  and the Ministers who sit behind him, and particularly to the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation  (Senator Wheeldon).  I have to shadow the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation, so I hope that I will be able to find him when I want him. I wish to say also that I shall continue as Leader of the Australian Country Party in the Senate, that  Senator Webster  will continue as  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party in the Senate and that  Senator Maunsell  will continue as the Party Whip. 
I give notice of motion as follows: Contingent on the  President  proceeding to the placing of business on any day, I shall move: 
That so much of the standing orders be suspended as would prevent  Senator Drake-Brockman  moving a motion relating to the order of business on the notice paper. 
-My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Overseas Trade. I ask: Did the Australian clothing and textile industries warn the Government after the 25 per cent tariff cuts last July that many Australian manufacturers would be unable to. maintain viable industries in the face of a flood of cheap imports? If so, why has the Government waited until some sections of the industry have suffered severe hardship before granting relief by way of import restrictions? Can yesterday's decision be taken as a forerunner of action to be taken to rescue other industries ailing as a result of the Government's tariff policies? 
I wish to associate senators of the Australian Country Party with the motion moved by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  and supported by  Senator Wright  on behalf of the Liberal Party of Australia. I support all the remarks made by those 2 speakers. Nick McKenna won and retained the respect of all senators and members of this Parliament during his term as a parliamentarian. I well recall my own entry into this chamber at a time when the House was already sitting. I recall coming in by myself and taking the oath and Nick McKenna, who was Leader of the Opposition at that time, coming up and giving me advice which, I believe, has stood me in good stead in this chamber ever since.  Senator Murphy  has already referred to the red book that  Senator McKenna  carried around with him as Leader of the Opposition. When I became  Chairman  of Committees he was always ready with advice to the Chair and to any new senator who occupied it. He was a gentleman always and he applied to his work that rigid honesty and deep sincerity of which  Senator Wright  has spoken. 
I recall also that he was one of the few who served in this chamber who believed that a senator should be heard in silence. I do not recall him ever interjecting on a  speaker  except when on some occasions he would say:  'Senator, can  I ask you a question?' Then the debate would be stopped while he asked that question. I agree that his contributions to debate always reflected a very close attention to detail. He placed great value on research and was most painstaking. On behalf of my Party and myself I extend sympathy to his family. 
-My question is addressed to the Minister for Agriculture. Has more finance been made available for farm development loans through the banking system? If so, is the interest rate on those loans to be increased to bring them into line with other interest rates? Is it a fact that the interest rate in the rural credit section of the Reserve Bank of Australia is now to be 9Vi per cent to 10 per cent? If this is so, does it mean that wheat growers will be required in the 1974-75 season to meet an increased interest bill of some $4m to $5m on borrowings from the rural credit section alone? 

 -Mr President, I ask for leave to make my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I want to take the opportunity, as have other senators, to congratulate you,  Mr Deputy President,  and the  President  on your election to the 2 highest offices that the Senate can bestow on its senators. I want to take this opportunity also, if I may, of congratulating all those new senators who have made their maiden speech. We have seen on this occasion a large number of new senators come into this chamber and on the second and third days of the session we have had the opportunity of seeing new senators get up and make a contribution to the debate. I have listened with great interest to their contributions and have been very impressed by them. I wish them well and hope to hear a great deal more from them. Having said that I want to refer to a matter to which  Senator Greenwood  referred. It is that the Senate indulges in a number of privileges. One privilege is extending courtesy to new senators when making their maiden speech so that they may be heard in silence and without interruption, provided that a new senator does not become too - 

I take  Senator Young's  words: And other leaders and other senators. A number of courtesies are afforded in the Senate, particularly to the Leader of the Government and to the Leader of the Opposition. These courtesies are extended so that the Senate can function. One such courtesy which is extended on many occasions is extended when the Leader of the Government or the Leader of the Opposition asks leave to make a statement. Whenever it is requested, that courtesy is extended and those 2 leaders are given the opportunity of making a statement without interruption. These courtesies are not afforded out of kindness of heart. They are afforded so that this chamber can function in a proper manner. 
Every morning at 9 o'clock the Leader of the Opposition and myself have the privilege, I believe, of sitting around a table and talking with the Manager of Government Business in the Senate  (Senator Douglas McClelland).  We are able to say things there quite freely that we would not be prepared to say in this chamber. We have to do those things if this chamber is to work and the business is to flow through it. I make this point because of the large number of new senators who have been elected to this chamber and also because of the number of what I would call 'old senators' who have not had a great deal of experience in this place in terms of years. I think the courtesies that are indulged in by the Senate must be observed at all times if the Senate is to function. 
Let me refer to some remarks made by the last  speaker, Senator Steele  Hall. I congratulate him on his remarks. We all know that he has a great deal of parliamentary experience but I was rather intrigued to hear him put forward his ideas in regard to the timing of the election which was held on 18 May. I say to him that those of us who were on the Opposition side of the Senate before the decision was taken to hold the election on 18 May gave long and careful thought to the action we were taking. 
-The honourable senator can say what he likes; that may be his view but it would not be mine. I believe that everything which has happened since that date has pointed to the fact that the Opposition parties took the right decision in the circumstances. 
-The honourable senator's Party should be pretty good at justifying defeat because it has had many in the past.  Senator Steele  Hall also referred to the economic policies of the Opposition parties. The only point I have to make on this is that since the general election the Opposition has had a good look at its policies and has updated some of them. But it has also reiterated them. This, I believe, is the reason why the Premiers are now picking them up and coming to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  with them. Having said that, I will be interested to listen to other speeches concerning the points made by  Senator Steele  Hall who preceded me in this debate. 
This debate is the third Address-in-Reply debate that we have had since Labor won the 1972 general election. One can see that the GovernorGeneral 's speech was based on the 1972 election policies of the Labor Party. The content of that speech in regard to policies has increased but each policy seems weaker and weaker; so much so, that the Opposition on this occasion has moved an amendment to the motion for the adoption of the Address-in-Reply.  Senator McAuliffe,  in his remarks last night, made the point that it was not customary to move amendments to such a motion. I doubt that he would have attempted to make capital out of that fact had he given a little more thought to it. Surely it is obvious from the absence of regular amendments to the Address-in-Reply motion that such action is taken only in extreme circumstances. The extreme circumstance in this instance, of course, is the economic mess into which Australia has been plunged by this Government. As we all know, the form of the Governor-General's Speech relates to the Government's proposals. The Speech is written by the Government. I refer to the third paragraph of that Speech which states:   my advisers have taken the view that the first responsibility of the Government is to carry out, fully and promptly, the program for change twice endorsed by the Australian people. 
Certainly there is a program of change, but I believe it is utterly false to claim that it has been endorsed by the people. I put the following questions to the Senate: Do the Australian people endorse the program of change that has resulted in the highest interest rates on record? Does the rural community support the continuing progressive withdrawal of longstanding subsidies, concessions and incentives for primary producers? Are the people happy about the change that has brought a mountainous increase in their weekly food bills? Are they content to put up with the present acute shortages of essential goods- materials and food stuffs included? Are they smiling about having to pay more for petrol and very soon heavily increased postal and telegraph charges? Do they endorse the economic policies which are leading to an alarming increase in unemployment? Do they endorse a change that has resulted in steeply increased taxation? Do they approve of an economic situation that erodes their savings and makes it virtually impossible to borrow money at viable rates especially in the essential area of housing? Do they have no censure for a Government that since December 1972 has broken promise after promise, clearly demonstrating that it has no answer to the problem of inflation? 
These are some of the changes for which this Government has been responsible and for which it stands condemned. The Government won the May election with less than 50 per cent of the vote. It lost seats in the House of Representatives and failed to gain a majority in the Senate. I believe that result clearly was a censure by the electorate. I believe that the Government scraped back because the people decided that Labor should have a second chance, despite its poor record over 17 months. It squeezed back also because many people were misled by Labor's propaganda, particularly the inflation line used by the Prime Minister. It would be interesting to know how many people were duped by the Government's claim a few weeks ago that inflation was waning. I ask honourable senators to remember the full page advertisements, which appeared in the Press before the last Federal election, proclaiming in the boldest type that Whitlam had beaten inflation. Do honourable senators remember those advertisements? I doubt that many people have forgotten them. That was in May 1974; and now, in July 1974- in fact, ever since the election- the Prime Minister has shown by word and deed that the rate of inflation was never checked. Such is his professed concern now about the state of the economy that it is obvious that he knew inflation was rapidly worsening at the time when he told the nation that it had been contained. The Government has introduced a program of change and, according to the legislation foreshadowed in the Governor-General's Speech, it will continue to introduce a program of change. But it is a program of change for the worse. 
Let me deal with another change for which the Government stands condemned. I refer to defence. When the then Governor-General opened Parliament in February 1973, just after Labor was elected to office, he devoted several early paragraphs of his opening Speech to defence. They included an expression of determination to maintain a strong armed force. One year later, in February 1974, the Queen's opening address discussed defence in 2 paragraphs in the middle of the Speech. This year, the subject rated one paragraph almost at the end of the Speech. Let me quote part of that paragraph. It states: 
Under the direction of the Minister for Defence, my Government is creating the most effective, mobile and professional defence force in Australia's peace-time history. 
I find it difficult to believe that even this Government expects anyone to fall for such a line. Some of the facts and figures proving the extent of the rundown of our defence capability and the erosion of the morale of the forces since Labor took office have already been cited in the debate. I only wish to add to those figures and totally refute the Government's ridiculous claim. Whenever the Government's defence policy has been questioned in this chamber, we have been told not only that there is no foreseeable threat to Australia within 10 or 15 years but also that the Services are better off now than ever before in the way of pay and conditions. I should not have to remind the Senate that those improvements were the result not of Labor initative, as the Government would have people believe, but of actions set in train by the former LiberalCountry Party Government. 
I was very intrigued this morning with a question asked by  Senator Missen  of the PostmasterGeneral  (Senator Bishop),  who in this chamber represents the Minister for Defence, concerning housing at Air Force bases in Victoria. I was very interested to hear the Minister in his reply say that when Labor came to office it had 3 principles on which it was going to work: It was going to upgrade Service pay and bring it into line with the pay of those working outside the Services; it was going to upgrade pensions; and it was going to upgrade housing. This Government has done all that. I hold in my hand a copy of the final report of the Committee of Inquiry into the Financial Terms and Conditions of Service for Members of the Regular Armed Forces. It is rather interesting to read the opening paragraph of chapter 1 of the report. It states: 
On 16 October 1970, the Minister for Defence informed the Parliament that the Government had decided to appoint this Committee of Inquiry into Financial Terms and Conditions of Service for Male and Female members of the Regular Armed Forces. 
The terms of reference given to the Committee in October 1970 are shown in paragraph 16 in chapter 1 of that report. 
I just want to finish what I was saying because I heard the honourable senator give this answer. This is the final report of the Committee. I remind honourable senators that there were many reports of this Committee which was commonly known as the Kerr Committee. Many of the recommendations in this report were implemented before the Liberal-Country Party went out of office. 
-Now we are coming down to the facts of the matter. All the conditions which have been given to the armed services of this country by this Government were based on the final report of this Committee of Inquiry. The honourable senator can get away with it in this place at question time by referring to the constitution of the Labor Party, to what the Labor Party stands for and to what the Labor Party has done for the armed Services of this country. But when someone who is in the know and who was partly responsible for setting up that Committee of Inquiry comes into this chamber with the facts and figures honourable senators opposite run for cover, and they run for cover very quickly. I invited the Government and the Postmaster-General, who in this chamber represents the Minister for Defence, to explain to me why, at a time when conditions in the Services are far more attractive than they were previously, it has been found necessary not to raise the entrance standards for recruits into the Services but to lower them, and why so many of our senior experienced officers are leaving the Services. 
-The truth is that in the area of defence, as in many other areas, there is no excuse for Labor's mismanagement. Many people in Western Australia, which is the State I represent, are incensed that the Government has chosen virtually to ignore defence requirements. Western Australia is potentially our richest and yet our most vulnerable State. I think it is a shocking thing, in view of what the previous Government did for the defence Services. I wholeheartedly support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition. 
-My question is addressed to the Minister for Customs and Excise. Does the Minister recall denying in March of this year media reports that the ban on the export of kangaroo products from Western Australia would be waived? Did he say that the ban would not be lifted despite some endeavour by Western Australia to implement the conservation program drawn up by Federal and State Ministers? In view of current reports that South Australia may be granted sole rights to export kangaroo skin products, will the Minister outline the present position? Will he also advise as to the American attitude towards the import of kangaroo products into that country and whether any agreement has been reached with that country for the export of kangaroo products from Australia? 
I listened very intently to the honourable senator who has just sat down. I had intended to say when he finished that I had listened to him all the time he was speaking and that I did not hear him mention the country. Unfortunately, however, by reading the last paragraph of the second reading speech of the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Senator Willesee)  he beat me to the punch. The honourable senator has shown during his time in this Senate a very great interest in the natural animals of this country. He has gone to every length to see that rules are laid down and enforced for the protection of those animals. I would have thought that the honourable senator, having said what he did about the Labor Party and its rural activities and having at heart the interests of the natural animals of this country, would have said something regarding the representation in this Parliament of people who live in the isolated areas of this country. The honourable senator makes the point that no one can control the mobility of electors. But did he say anything about assisting the people who live in these far distant areas away from the capital cities and of getting them, firstly, some representation in this Parliament and then of getting them equal representation here? He made no comment on this at all. 
I want to say that my Party is not against change in electoral matters. I want to lay it right on the line that there are 5 points which we believe should be considered before making any electoral change. Let me enumerate those points before I go on to say something about tins Bill. The Australian Country Party believes that the political voice of rural people and the rural industries must be heard no matter through which party that voice is heard. I think that most honourable senators would agree with me. My Party believes that people in industry whose contributions to the national well being is vital- and surely the rural industries are vital to the economy of this country- should not be deprived by their geographical isolation of the right te adequate and equal representation in the Parliament. 
-The honourable senator who preceded me said nothing about it. He said that no one can control the mobility of electors, and left it at that. The Country Party believes it is wrong that political power should be concentrated in a few great cities, swamping rural expression. 
-This is just the difference between the Labor Party and the Country Party. 
-The honourable senator who spoke last-  Senator Mulvihill-  made the point that the Labor Party represented the country electors as much as does any other party in this Parliament. Yet  Senator Georges  has said that he does not agree with the point I have made. I am saying that the great cities are swamping the electoral voice of the country areas. My Party believes also it is right that the political voice of the country areas should be protected from measures which are aimed deliberately at hastening its end. The Minister in charge of electoral matters in this Parliament,  Mr Daly,  is deliberately aiming at hastening the end of the Country Party. No one would deny that. The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers)  made quite clear in his speech what he thought of that. The Country Party believes that good government for all people comes from a reasonably balanced Parliament organised so that it can pay regard to the wellbeing of all of the nation's interests. Surely therefore the people who live in isolated areas should have someone here to speak on their behalf and to put forward their interests. 
Having made the point of view of my Party clear I say that this is the third time I have risen in this chamber to oppose the electoral changes proposed in this Bill. The second reading speech is a classic example of the Labor Government saying one thing and meaning another. I have lost count of the number of times this has happened since the change of government in 1972. 1 recall well  Senator Carrick  's excellent recital a few months ago of the Government's dishonesty, as the honourable senator called it at that time. To my mind he gave unchallengeable details of 27 promises made by Labor and broken within its first 12 months of government. The Government's only answer to  Senator Carrick  's recital was a very significant silence. We on this side of the chamber will not be silent whenever the Government is dishonest or attempts to camouflage an ulterior motive. 

 Mr Daly, the Minister who introduced this Bill in another place, declares that he wants a greater degree of equity in the electoral system. He claims that his Government wants practical equality of representation. What  Mr Daly  wants to achieve by this Bill is not equity and equality.  His  long range goal is to destroy the Country Party and to entrench the Labor Party in government. Those are the purposes of this Bill. I wonder that there was no reference in the second reading speech to the Country Party representing cows, trees and haystacks, as  Mr Daly  declared in his second reading speech when the Bill was before the House previously. To my mind this is one of the most infamous phrases from the Minister's public attacks on the Country Party. The Labor Party was very quick to allege in the recent general election campaign that the Opposition was refusing to obey the umpire's decision. I now turn that charge back on the Government. In May the people threw out the Government's request to be given power to amend the Constitution so that electoral divisions could be determined on the basis of total population instead of numbers of eligible voters. The people would have nothing to do with that proposal because the Government had finally revealed its plan for electoral changes to be nothing but a preposterous gerrymander. But the Government is not prepared to accept the verdict. It reintroduced a Bill which was twice defeated in the Senate. The Bill now before us represents another means of effecting a gerrymander. 
I have already told the Senate in previous debates on this matter that a 20 per cent variation in electoral enrolments either side of the quota has been accepted by all governments since Federation in the interests of truly representative government. 
I think so- and a little bit more. The Government proposes in this Bill to reduce the permissible variation to 10 percent. If this Bill is passed I wonder how long it will be before we are dealing with another Bill taking away the 10 per cent variation. 
I am only wondering. If we should change our electoral laws to insist upon an equal number of voters in all electorates one would not need a crystal ball to foresee the result in the vast sparsely populated areas of Australia about which I was talking a while ago. Ultimately we would have only a handful of huge electorates covering the rural areas. Under the Labor Government that unhappy day might not be too far away. There is unprecedented discontent and pessimism about the future in rural areas. This is not only because of Labor's strangling anti-rural policies but also because no attempt has been made by the Government to protect country based secondary industries or to encourage development of new industries other than in its few selected growth areas. 
The disenchantment with this Government that I have seen in country areas can lead only to an acceleration of the drift of people to the cities.  Senator Mulvihill  says that that cannot be stopped. As that happens we can expect to see a duplication of the situation in Western Australia where the Kalgoorlie electorate embraces most of the State. The Country Party believes that the political voice of the rural communities must be heard. We have always believed that their right to adequate and equal representation in the Federal Parliament should not be denied them because of their geographic isolation. The Labor Party says that it is undemocratic for one electorate to have more voters than another. The Labor Party argues that we are out of step with other democracies in continuing to follow this practice. I think this is nonsense. The Government knows it is nonsense. 
Many countries of the English speaking world do not consider it undemocratic, unfair or unjust to have widely varying numbers of voters in electorates. Great Britain and Canada are excellent examples. In Britain the enrolments for this year's election were as high as 96,000 electors and as low as 23,000 electors. I might add that these were the figures immediately after a redistribution. In Canada the variation is even greater-from 8,000 electors in one area to 80,000 in another. The New Zealand electoral laws permit a fairly wide variation as do the laws in the United States of America. Yet the Government says it is undemocratic to continue with the present electoral laws in this country. 
To my mind Australia is not out of step with other democratic brother nations, as the Labor Party would have us believe. We would be the one out if we permitted the Labor Government to distribute electorates purely for political gain. No Australian should have any doubt about the Government's intention to make and sustain the change. If this Bill is passed we will have a redistribution of boundaries in the life of every Parliament. I think that has been already proved when one looks at the seat of Moore in Western 
Australia where the numbers of electors have grown considerably since the redistribution was put through this Parliament early in May. This, I believe, would bring about a chaotic situation in which every election would be fought on new boundaries. What would happen in the Electoral Office I do now know. In my State, because of the redistribution that was approved in this Parliament in May, we have seen the Electoral Office under great pressure producing rolls which do not fully cover a division and sub-divisions have been taken from another division and put into that division. If people wish to check an electoral roll now they have to look up another roll to obtain some of the names which are in the new division. 
I do not know why it can be done in South Australia when we cannot do it in Western Australia under the same government. 
Yes. It must be. I thought we had only an Australian Government, according to honourable senators opposite. I see no merit in this Bill, nor does my Party. I believe it is unfair and unjust because it discriminates against a section of the community in the highly important area of parliamentary representation. Therefore I believe the Bill should be rejected and I will vote as the Leader of the Opposition has indicated against this Bill as will my Party. 
-My question is addressed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate in his capacity as the Minister representing the Prime Minister. Is he aware that the Minister for Northern Development has advised the Western Australian Premier that no funds will be made available at this stage for further development of the Ord River agricultural project under the present agreement? Is this because of the Prime Minister's call for restraint on public works programs? If so, will the Government consider tabling a list of other major works programs now being delayed for the same reason? 
I ask the 
Minister representing the Minister for Social Security: Is it a fact that pensioner iliostomy sufferers are required to spend several dollars a week out of their own pockets on essential medical materials? If so, will the Government consider including this expense in the pensioner medical service cover? 
I address to the Minister for Agriculture a question concerning meat. The question, which is in 2 parts, seeks some information- and I am not being derogatory in saying that. The first part of the question refers to a report of a considerable purchase of beef by Russia from the European Economic Community. I ask the Minister: Has any approach been made by the Australian Meat Board or by the Government to the authorities in the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics for the purchase of Australian meat, as occurred some years ago? In the second part of my question I ask whether there is any information regarding an agreement that has been made or is likely to be reached with Iran on the supply of sheep meat to that country. Is this trade to be in the form of live sheep or in mutton, and is any Australian investment involved in the set-up? If so, where and how much? 
-Does the 
Minister for Agriculture have any concern about the very strong attack made yesterday by the Government in another place on the Australian Woo) Corporation and on some individual members and staff of the Corporation? Is he concerned at the effects this attack might have on his own working relationship with the Corporation? Does he still hold to the view he expressed recently, namely, that if allegations made against certain members and staff of the Corporation are substantiated by evidence, that evidence should be produced by the person making the allegations? 
I ask the Minister representing the Treasurer. In view of the hostile reception given to the mini-Budget through the media by industry, commerce, trade unions and the public generally, does the Government not have doubts that its new economic policies are the right ones or does the Government believe that these people have committed an error of judgment? 
I want to speak for a few minutes in support of the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers).  If honourable senators consider the hours that we have agreed to give to the Minister for the Media and Manager of Government Business in the Senate  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  they will see that we are extending the sitting times of the Senate by nearly 4 hours. I believe that is adequate seeing that we came back here originally to sit for 3 weeks. 
-That was not our fault. 
-We did not move that motion. If the honourable senator wants a donnybrook we can provide it. If honourable senators look at what has happened in the past they will see that we have sat for about 19 hours a week. When we have got towards the end of the session the sitting time has risen to about 23 hours a week. If honourable senators refer to Hansard they will see where  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson moved for an increase in sitting times of 4 hours a week towards the end of a session in 1972 and  Senator Murphy,  speaking on 23 May 1 972, said that was a terrible thing because if senators came into Parliament House at 9 o'clock in the morning for 3 sitting days a week and sat until midnight each night, there was no necessity to bring them back on a Friday when they had to return to their electorates to carry out electorate work. We were then working 1 9 hours a week and we wanted it increased to 23 hours. Now we are working 2 1 hours a week and we have agreed to increase it to 251/4 hours a week.  Senator Douglas  McClelland has suggested that we sit on Friday for an extra 43/4 hours. This would make it nearly 30 hours a week. That is all very fine for senators from Sydney and Melbourne but there are people here who come from distant parts of Australia and they find it pretty difficult to work in this Senate for 4 days a week, return to their electorates and then come back to Canberra for work the following week. I support the remarks of the Leader of the Opposition. 
-The Opposition does not oppose this Bill. As the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation  (Senator Wheeldon)  has just said, we hope that this Bill, which provides for increased repatriation pensions, will receive a speedy passage through the Senate. However, I point out to the Minister that I hope that other repatriation pensions and allowances will be considered in the Budget. I know that the Minister in his second reading speech and also in answer to a question in the Senate, I think, last week has said that this will be done. Therefore, I have nothing further to say on this Bill. 
-The Opposition does not oppose this Bill and suggests that we should move to the second reading. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
-My question is addressed to the Minister for Agriculture. Did the Japanese Government agree last week to lift the ban on imports of Australian beef? If so, has a new quota agreement been reached or is Australia to satisfy only that part of the 1974 quota- that is, 50,000 tonnes- affected by the import freeze? Could the Minister give us any information on what he believes are the prospects for further meat trade with Japan? 

 -Mr President, I take it that the Senate can deal with this Bill and the Customs Bill in a cognate debate? 
-Was the 
Minister for Agriculture consulted before the decision was taken to increase the excise on brandy sales as announced in the mini-Budget? Does the Minister believe that this action will further worsen the fall in brandy sales which has occurred since the last Budget and which has caused the industry to call for Government assistance to restructure the grape-growing industry away from production for brandy purposes? Would the Minister agree that this move represents a final repudiation by the Government of its promise before the election of 1972 not to impose further taxation on this industry? 
I wish to associate my Party with  Senator Guilfoyle  's remarks on this Bill. The State from which I come, Western Australia, is looked upon as a dry State. I understand that it has less than 10 per cent of the water potential of Australia and that more than half of that potential is in the northern part of the State. 
It is quite obvious that we must support these water supply schemes. My Party has always tried to do so. It is obvious also that if Canberra is to develop as has been planned it must have adequate water resources. I have great pleasure in supporting the Bill. 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Overseas Trade. Is the Government giving high priority to the introduction of legislation to enable the establishment of the Structural Adjustments Board which will consider applications from businessmen and industries adversely affected by Government economic decisions? Will the Minister say when such legislation is likely to be brought before Parliament? Has the Department of Manufacturing Industry, to which applications are addressed in the meantime, received any calls for help? If so, will the Minister indicate how many applications have been received and the sort of companies from which they have been received? 
Before the suspension of the sitting for lunch the Joint Sitting was dealing with the Commonwealth Electoral Bill. The stated purpose of the Bill is to reduce the permissible variation in the number of voters in electorates from 20 per cent to 10 per cent above or below the quota. Before I rose to speak 9 speakers had taken part in the debate. Four of them have come from the Opposition side and the remainder have come from the Government side- or so I would have thought from listening to  Senator Hall.  Immediately before the suspension of the sitting the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr McKenzie)  referred to the fact that he would not like to be a member of the Australian Country Party in this Parliament. I say to him that I have been a member of the Country Party in this Parliament for 16 years, and I am proud of it. My Party has been represented in this Parliament since 1919, and I think its record speaks for itself. The honourable member for Diamond Valley also referred to the significance of the altered tolerance, and he wanted to know why such great importance was placed on it. I will deal with that point later in my contribution. 
The Government has made great play about this Joint Sitting being an historic occasion. Not only is it an historic occasion, but it brings television to the Parliament for the first time. I am very glad that television has been brought to this Parliament on this occasion because it brings the Australian people right into this Parliament and allows them to see the merits and demerits of the Government case and the Opposition case. The people can judge the issues for themselves. I believe that after listening to Government speakers the people will be better informed of what the Government is trying to do by this Electoral Bill. I only regret that the television coverage will not spread into the distant parts of Australia so that those people who have pioneered this country and who are still pioneering it in many areas could, if they had television, hear and see how this Government is ignoring them in this legislation which provides for parliamentary representation in this Parliament. I will refer also to the areas that this Government has overlooked and that this Government is demoralising with its policies regarding the representation of rural people. 
I look firstly at what the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  said when he opened this debate. He referred to the obstruction of his Government by the Opposition Parties in the Senate. I would much rather call it tactics, and I am quite sure that the Prime Minister, when he was Leader of the Opposition, called it tactics when his Party in the Senate delayed, amended and defeated the previous Government's legislation that came before that chamber. We all remember that throughout 1973 and until the federal election in May, the Prime Minister led the Labor Party onslaught on the Senate. During the election campaign he stomped from one end of Australia to the other emotionally appealing to voters to give Labor a majority in the Senate. Day after day he argued that it was undemocratic and unfair that a government should be frustrated by senators who in some cases had been elected several years before Labor came to power. Very few voters in Australia could have failed to hear the Prime Minister's plea for Senate control. Yet what happened in the election? The people flatly refused to grant that extra power for which their Prime Minister asked. The Prime Minister obviously has failed to see the significance of that result. He either does not see or will not admit that the Australian people choose to elect the senators whom they prefer and not those whom the Prime Minister wants. 
Those who have already spoken in this debate have failed, I believe, to explain why there is a necessity for change. I recall that the Government put before the Senate two different Bills, the present Bill and another which was totally at variance with the concept of one vote one value. In other words, when the Senate was considering those Bills the Government had one foot in each camp. Today the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly),  the Minister responsible for this Bill, failed, in my view, to give any explanation as to why he wants to change the present system. I would have thought that the Minister would take the opportunity to explain to the people who are listening in why this legislation is necessary. But what did he do? All he did was stand up and castigate the Australian Country Party, a party that has given great service to this country. The Minister said that the Country Party received only 10.6 per cent of the total vote in Victoria. What he did not explain is that of the 34 seats in Victoria the Country Party stood for only six and won six. It obtained more than 50 per cent of the vote for the seats it contested. 
It has been pointed out time and time again during this debate and in other debates that the existing legislation has resulted in a great gerrymander which was perpetrated by the Country Party. But that is not true. If anyone wants evidence of a gerrymander he should have a look at the position in Queensland in 1949. The Government of the day had a redistribution which resulted in the Labor Government gaining 42 seats in the Parliament with 46 per cent of the vote. Forty-eight per cent of the vote gave the Liberal and Country parties 31 seats. Government supporters now say that in the past the Liberal Party and the Country Party have tried to create gerrymanders. 
I want to recall something else that the Government has said. The Labor Government has said repeatedly that the value of the vote of one citizen should be equivalent to the value of the vote of another. But let us come closer to the core of Labor's disagreement with the present electoral situation. With the 20 per cent variation in the quota, the average number of voters in country electorates is lower than the average number of voters in city electorates. So what the Labor Government is saying is that it is wrong for a country vote to have a greater mathematical value than a city vote. During this debate we have heard a great deal about the concept of one vote one value, but no speaker on the Government side of the chamber has made a prediction as to what difference this reduction in percentage variation will make to country areas. I believe that it will reverse all that country people have tried to do over the years. 
The Labor Government wants to increase the area of the electorate of Kalgoorlie, as the 
Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  said, from about 800,000 square miles to one million square miles. What does this proposal mean? It means a reduction in parliamentary representation for all people who live in that area, which is one of Australia's great areas, and a reduction in the ability of people in the electorate to communicate with each other. I believe that this is a most important aspect of all these proposed redistributions. I wonder what the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard)  has to say on this matter. We will not know because in this debate up to the present, despite the statement by the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  that the Labor Party, the Government of this country, holds more rural seats than any other Party, we have not heard from one Labor member who represents a rural area. 
-Why not? Because they are not game to speak. They know that the policies of the Labor Party have been detrimental to the people who live in the rural areas. There have been 4 speakers from the Government side. All of them, probably with one exception, come from densely populated areas. The one exception was the honourable member for Diamond Valley who represents an urban area in Victoria. I challenge those Labor Party members who represent rural areas to say where they stand on this Bill and whether they agree that their constituents in these vast areas should have a lesser degree of representation in this Parliament than they have now. They have said it in Caucus. Surely if they are game to say it in Caucus they should be game to tell the people, through this Parliament, where they stand. I have agreed not to speak at length. 1 believe that this Bill is a farce. It is detrimental to people living in the outlying areas of this country. For that reason, I oppose the Bill. 
Before the suspension of the sitting for lunch the Joint Sitting was dealing with the Commonwealth Electoral Bill. The stated purpose of the Bill is to reduce the permissible variation in the number of voters in electorates from 20 per cent to 10 per cent above or below the quota. Before I rose to speak 9 speakers had taken part in the debate. Four of them have come from the Opposition side and the remainder have come from the Government side- or so I would have thought from listening to  Senator Hall.  Immediately before the suspension of the sitting the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr McKenzie)  referred to the fact that he would not like to be a member of the Australian Country Party in this Parliament. I say to him that I have been a member of the Country Party in this Parliament for 16 years, and I am proud of it. My Party has been represented in this Parliament since 1919, and I think its record speaks for itself. The honourable member for Diamond Valley also referred to the significance of the altered tolerance, and he wanted to know why such great importance was placed on it. I will deal with that point later in my contribution. 
The Government has made great play about this Joint Sitting being an historic occasion. Not only is it an historic occasion, but it brings television to the Parliament for the first time. I am very glad that television has been brought to this Parliament on this occasion because it brings the Australian people right into this Parliament and allows them to see the merits and demerits of the Government case and the Opposition case. The people can judge the issues for themselves. I believe that after listening to Government speakers the people will be better informed of what the Government is trying to do by this Electoral Bill. I only regret that the television coverage will not spread into the distant parts of Australia so that those people who have pioneered this country and who are still pioneering it in many areas could, if they had television, hear and see how this Government is ignoring them in this legislation which provides for parliamentary representation in this Parliament. I will refer also to the areas that this Government has overlooked and that this Government is demoralising with its policies regarding the representation of rural people. 
I look firstly at what the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  said when he opened this debate. He referred to the obstruction of his Government by the Opposition Parties in the Senate. I would much rather call it tactics, and I am quite sure that the Prime Minister, when he was Leader of the Opposition, called it tactics when his Party in the Senate delayed, amended and defeated the previous Government's legislation that came before that chamber. We all remember that throughout 1 973 and until the federal election in May, the Prime Minister led the Labor Party onslaught on the Senate. During the election campaign he stomped from one end of Australia to the other emotionally appealing to voters to give Labor a majority in the Senate. Day after day he argued that it was undemocratic and unfair that a government should be frustrated by senators who in some cases had been elected several years before Labor came to power. Very few voters in Australia could have failed to hear the Prime Minister's plea for Senate control. Yet what happened in the election? The people flatly refused to grant that extra power for which their Prime Minister asked. The Prime Minister obviously has failed to see the significance of that result. He either does not see or will not admit that the Australian people choose to elect the senators whom they prefer and not those whom the Prime Minister wants. 
Those who have already spoken in this debate have failed, I believe, to explain why there is a necessity for change. I recall that the Government put before the Senate two different Bills, the present Bill and another which was totally at variance with the concept of one vote one value. In other words, when the Senate was considering those Bills the Government had one foot in each camp. Today the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly),  the Minister responsible for this Bill, failed, in my view, to give any explanation as to why he wants to change the present system. I would have thought that the Minister would take the opportunity to explain to the people who are listening in why this legislation is necessary. But what did he do? All he did was stand up and castigate the Australian Country Party, a party that has given great service to this country. The Minister said that the Country Party received only 10.6 per cent of the total vote in Victoria. What he did not explain is that of the 34 seats in Victoria the Country Party stood for only six and won six. It obtained more than 50 per cent of the vote for the seats it contested. 
It has been pointed out time and time again during this debate and in other debates that the existing legislation has resulted in a great gerrymander which was perpetrated by the Country Party. But that is not true. If anyone wants evidence of a gerrymander he should have a look at the position in Queensland in 1949. The Government of the day had a redistribution which resulted in the Labor Government gaining 42 seats in the Parliament with 46 per cent of the vote. Forty-eight per cent of the vote gave the Liberal and Country parties 31 seats. Government supporters now say that in the past the Liberal Party and the Country Party have tried to create gerrymanders. 
I want to recall something else that the Government has said. The Labor Government has said repeatedly that the value of the vote of one citizen should be equivalent to the value of the vote of another. But let us come closer to the core of Labor's disagreement with the present electoral situation. With the 20 per cent variation in the quota, the average number of voters in country electorates is lower than the average number of voters in city electorates. So what the Labor Government is saying is that it is wrong for a country vote to have a greater mathematical value than a city vote. During this debate we have heard a great deal about the concept of one vote one value, but no speaker on the Government side of the chamber has made a prediction as to what difference this reduction in percentage variation will make to country areas. I believe that it will reverse all that country people have tried to do over the years. 
The Labor Government wants to increase the area of the electorate of Kalgoorlie, as the 
Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  said, from about 800,000 square miles to one million square miles. What does this proposal mean? It means a reduction in parliamentary representation for all people who live in that area, which is one of Australia's great areas, and a reduction in the ability of people in the electorate to communicate with each other. I believe that this is a most important aspect of all these proposed redistributions. I wonder what the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard)  has to say on this matter. We will not know because in this debate up to the present, despite the statement by the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  that the Labor Party, the Government of this country, holds more rural seats than any other Party, we have not heard from one Labor member who represents a rural area. 
-Why not? Because they are not game to speak. They know that the policies of the Labor Party have been detrimental to the people who live in the rural areas. There have been 4 speakers from the Government side. All of them, probably with one exception, come from densely populated areas. The one exception was the honourable member for Diamond Valley who represents an urban area in Victoria. I challenge those Labor Party members who represent rural areas to say where they stand on this Bill and whether they agree that their constituents in these vast areas should have a lesser degree of representation in this Parliament than they have now. They have said it in Caucus. Surely if they are game to say it in Caucus they should be game to tell the people, through this Parliament, where they stand. I have agreed not to speak at length. I believe that this Bill is a farce. It is detrimental to people living in the outlying areas of this country. For that reason, I oppose the Bill. 
Is the Minister for Foreign Affairs aware that on 4 August the Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Snedden,  posed a series of questions to the Prime Minister relating to reports that Australia had recognised the Soviet Union's jurisdiction over the Baltic states? Has the Prime Minister responded? If not, can the Minister say when he will do so? Will the Minister say when the Government of the Soviet Union was informed of the Australian Government's change of policy? 
I present the following petition from 1,043 electors of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble Petition of the undersigned electors of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth that: 
The Russian author, Alexander Solzhenitsyn, has revealed the detail's of the crimes against tens of millions of people in the Soviet Union through the activities of the secret police and vast concentration camps. 
Whereas on the 14th February 1974, the day after the banishment of Alexander Solzhenitsyn from his homeland, nine Soviet citizens headed by  Dr Andrei  Sakharov addressed an appeal to the peoples of the world. The four points of this petition are as requested by the nine Soviet citizens. The signatories were  Dr Andrei  Sakharov, physicist, Helena Non maire physicist, Vladimir Maximov, Mikhail Agouraki historian, Boris Shraghin, art-historian, Paul Litvinov, Yuri Orlov, Anatoli Marshenko and Father Sergei Zhalutkov. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled should request that the Prime Minister of Australia take immediate and determined steps to call upon the Government of the U.S.S.R. and the Secretary-General of the United Nations: 
1 ) To permit publication in the U.S.S.R. of the 'Gulag Archipelago'. 
To create an international tribunal to examine the alleged crimes committed in the U.S.S.R. 
To open the files of all Soviet secret police agencies including the Cheka, the OGPU, and NKVD and the KGB. 
To protect Solzhenitsyn from all persecution and allow him to return to his homeland. 
And your Petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I ask the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation: Is it a fact that members of Repatriation Boards have not received salary increases or national wage adjustments since 1972? Is that because the relevant section of the Repatriation Act was amended last year to bring salary variations for Board members under the determination of the Remuneration Tribunal? Does the Government have the power under the Act to adjust the remuneration paid to Board members before a determination is made by the Tribunal? If so, will the Minister give urgent consideration to the  restoration of wage justice to the officers concerned? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Customs and Excise. In what way is his action to withdraw the petroleum subsidy for non-metropolitan areas consistent with the provisions of the Industries Assistance Commission Act and in particular section 23 which requires that long standing financial assistance cannot be withdrawn unless a report of the Industries Assistance Commission on the matter has been received? Will the Minister consider providing the Senate with details of the Government's legal position on this decision, particularly as he seems to have the overwhelming approval of Caucus for his action? 
-My question is addressed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Is it a fact that arrangements to fly out the Russian violinist, Georgi Ermolenko, by a Royal Australian Air Force aircraft were completed on Wednesday night? If so, why did the Minister delete reference to arrangements in his statement to the Senate yesterday morning? What was the compelling reason for secrecy? 
I, on behalf of the Australian Country Party, join the Leader of the Government in the Senate and the Leader of the Opposition in this tribute to Lady Ken-. She was a person of charm, vitality and endless courage. Despite great suffering from severe illness in latter years, Lady Kerr actively continued the social work to which she was devoted. Few who met her at official functions in recent months could have known of the tremendous strain under which she performed duties as the wife of the Governor-General. On behalf of my Party I offer deep sympathy to  Sir John  and his family. 
I associate myself and my Party colleagues with the motion of condolence. Norman Kirk was one of New Zealand's foremost Prime Ministers. He possessed tremendous strength of leadership and at the same time wide popularity at all levels in the community. At home he was regarded as a national champion. Abroad he commanded genuine admiration and respect. He had both the background and the ability to remain in close touch with the battler and the man in the street and he did this to his country's gain. Having just spent a week in New Zealand I feel that I know the depth of esteem in which  Mr Kirk  was held by his countrymen. 
Everywhere one heard sincere expressions of New Zealand's great loss at a time when the nation needed such a man and such a leader. On behalf of my Party we offer to  Mrs Kirk  and to her family our deepest sympathy. 
I join with the Leader of the Government in the Senate and with the Leader of the Opposition in paying tribute to  Mr Leslie.  He was a character in this Parliament as he was in the State Parliament. Although he was a man of small stature he had a heart as big as that of a man twice his size. He certainly was full of fight right down to his finger tips. In the main, his love was his family and those people whom he represented, particularly the less fortunate people in Western Australia and in other parts of this nation. The Leader of the Government in the Senate has said that Hugh Leslie had a very fine war record. He was a South African and he joined the South African forces at the age of 16, fighting in East Africa and later in France. After the First World War he came to Western Australia where he first of all took up farming but because of the Depression he then entered the newspaper world and conducted country newspapers in the wheat belt areas of Western Australia. When World War II broke out he enlisted in the Australian Imperial Forces in June 1940. In the seige of Tobruk he was very severely wounded and lost a leg. He came out of the Army in 1943 and immediately contested the State seat of Parliament for his area and won it. In 1946 he was re-elected unopposed and in 1949 he decided to enter Federal Parliament for the new seat of Moore. He held the seat of Moore until 1958 when he was defeated. He was reelected in 1961 and retired from the Parliament in 1963. 
Hughie Leslie had a great love of the digger. He was known as the little digger because of his fight, and his fight for these people. He represented the Western Australian branch of the Returned Services League on the State executive of that organisation for many years. He was the founder and the  president  for many years of the Australian Spastic Welfare Association and was responsible for conducting the Miss Australia contest in his State for many years. He was also the organising  chairman  of the Commonwealth Paraplegic Games held in Perth in 1962. He had a keen interest in the Returned Services League and in the Spastic Welfare Association right up until the time of his death. I was very happy to see many people representing these 2 organisations at his funeral. I feel that Western Australia will sadly miss the work and effort that this man has at all times displayed both in and out of Parliament on behalf of those people. On behalf of the Opposition, I extend to  Mrs Leslie  and her family the deepest sympathy. 
Is the Minister for Agriculture aware that Australian primary producer organisations, particularly those in Western Australia, are gravely concerned at the continued presence of foreign fishing vessels in Australian waters off the north-west coast? 
-Do you want me to reply to your answer a while ago? Is the Minister for Agriculture aware that these organisations fear that foot and mouth disease, which is prevalent in nearby Bali, will reach Australia as a direct result of the Government's failure to exercise tight control over the fishing fleets? Will the Minister inform the Senate of the action which the Government has taken in these matters and the assistance and advice, if any, which have been offered to the Western Australian Government to alleviate the problem? 
I ask the 
Minister for Agriculture whether he told the Australian Agricultural Council last month that farm income for the coming year was expected to be at historically high levels, appreciably higher than levels attained before the recent buoyant years. I ask the Minister how that statement can be reconciled with the prediction of a substantial decline in farm income which was contained in Statement No. 2 which accompanied the Budget speech on Tuesday night? Are we asked to believe that farm income will be historically high despite a substantial decline or is there a wide discrepancy between the estimates of the Minister's Department and those of the Treasury? 
-The Minister for Agriculture will recall stating in answer to a question asked by me last week that there was no justification for or any concern about the overall income from agriculture this year. I now ask whether he will confirm that the Bureau of Agriculture Economics is forecasting a 50 per cent drop in rural net income due to both a reduction in the value of production and a 20 per cent increase in costs? 
-My question is addressed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate as Minister representing the Prime Minister. Is it a fact that decisions on currency valuation changes are usually announced at weekends to minimise the risk of speculation and to avoid instant overreaction? If so, will the Minister inform the Senate why the Government chose on this occasion to switch to a mid-week announcement? Can he say why the impending announcement was an open secret in Parliament House last night, especially in the Press gallery, shortly after the Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Snedden,  had demolished the Government's Budget? 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. The Minister will be aware that Western Australians have been deeply concerned about the almost non-existent defence effort in the western part of this continent and that they will welcome any steps to correct that situation. In view of the concern, I ask the Minister to give the Senate full details of this week's announcement of increased Royal Australian Air Force and Royal Australian Navy patrols off the north-west coast. Have the operations already commenced? How many aircraft and patrol boats are involved? What improvement does this represent and what further improvement is planned? 
Yesterday  Senator Scott,  in speaking to this Bill, made a point about the owner-operator allowance. As the Minister knows, the wheat grower today is a man of many parts. He can work at quite a number of trades, as well as having managerial experience and being a bit of a scientist. The Government has decided that the owner-operator allowance should be based on what is paid to a leading hand under the Pastoral Award of 1968, which I understand is $3181 per annum. That has been written into this agreement as an item of cost. I should like from the Minister an assurance that he will consider this matter in the future as a cost item in the indexing for the other 4 years that lie ahead. I know that the Minister has spoken about this matter to organisations outside this Parliament but I believe, as  Senator Scott  said yesterday, that the Minister should consider giving us such assurance in the Senate. 
I should like an explanation of the amendment to clause 13 (b). 
I would appreciate that. The Minister has foreshadowed some amendments, and I should like an explanation of them. 
I take it that the Senate is to have a cognate debate on this Bill and the Liquefied Gas (Road Vehicle Use) Tax Collection Bill. 
-Brockman asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Federal Government advised the Government of Western Australia that it wants to relinquish ownership of nineteen airfields in that State: If so, why. 
When was the State Government first advised that the Federal Government was considering abandoning the airfields. 
It the Federal Government's decision is implemented will the upkeep of an alternative airport to Perth become the full responsibility of a Local Government authority. 
I wish to associate the senators of the Australian Country Party with this motion of condolence and to support the tributes made by the Leader of the Government in the Senate and  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson who spoke on behalf of the Opposition.  Sir Eric  Harrison had retired from the Parliament before I came to the Senate, but I did not have to work with him to know him and to admire his many qualities. From a working community background and with very little education he graduated from the ranks to become one of Australia's most important men and certainly one of the most respected. He possessed unquestionable integrity and loyalty. He was a tenacious worker. Throughout his many years of unsparing service to this country he combined those attributes with great charm and friendliness and an unflagging sense of humour. My colleagues and I extend deep sympathy to his widow and family. 
Will the Minister representing the Acting Prime Minister inform the Senate why the Acting Prime Minister and Minister for Overseas Trade now appeals for greater productivity and forecasts a reduction in the short term interest rate when these matters were ignored in the Budget? Does the Acting Prime Minister contend that increased productivity and lower interest rates are necessary if inflation is to be checked and full employment restored? If so, is this an admission that the Budget largely ignored inflation and unemployment or does he foreshadow one or more miniBudgets in the next 12 months? 
I can see the reason behind the Minister's amendments. He is saying that he wants to get rid of some of the powers, but he wants to insert some words in clause 14 so that the clause will read: 
A person shall not . . . make ... a statement (whether in answer to a question or otherwise), that is false or misleading in a material particular. 
I do not see how the Minister is getting rid of any power there. He is inserting after the word 'statement' the words '(whether in answer to a question or otherwise)'. I believe that the Minister is extending the power in that clause. Perhaps he has a reason for moving this amendment and will explain it to the Committee. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Agriculture and I too would like to know what the Government has in mind. In view of the admission by the Acting Prime Minister that the Government bungled over the superphosphate bounty decision, how many applications have been received by the Minister's Department requesting the continuation of the bounty and how many were referred to the Industries Assistance Commission? Who made the referral decisions and what criteria were used to determine the merits of the applications? What is the superphosphate price in Australia following devaluation? How does this compare with the price 12 months ago? 
I am very glad that  Senator Mulvihill  has resumed his seat. During the last 25 minutes he was getting so carried away with his love for his Ministers, his Government and his policies that I thought he was going to get carried right out of the Senate chamber. It has been rather interesting to listen to the speeches made by  Senator Mulvihill  and  Senator Gietzelt.  Both of them have deliberately avoided speaking about the Budget itself. Both of them know that this is an old ploy in trade union circles. When people want to take the pressure off one subject, they put the emphasis on another one. That takes attention right away from the subject over which they are being criticised. Both honourable senators did this. 
The Senate is debating a motion moved by the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  that the Senate take note of the Budget papers. The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers)  has moved an amendment to that motion. I want to put this on the record - 
-Yes, I am, because I think it is well worth reading. The amendment, which I support very strongly, as moved by the Leader of the Opposition, reads as follows: 
Leave out all words after 'that' and insert 'The Senate is of the opinion that the Budget fails to tackle Australia's economic crisis, in that: 
Unemployment is permitted to grow and the prospect for school leavers is prejudiced; 
b ) Inflation is accelerated; 
Existing poverty is ignored and new poverty is created; 
d ) Personal income tax is increased 45 per cent: 
Living standards will be lowered; 
f ) Private enterprise is stifled; 
g) Government power is further centralised; 
Individual incentive and thrift is penalised; 
A double tax is levied on estates. 
And because the Government: 
Has made the Budget a socialist vehicle to intensify the attack on the States and break down the free enterprise system. 
Believes the absurdity that the Government can spend without people paying or can build without people producing. 
Has preached private restraint but has threatened its achievements by its own Government extravagance. 
I believe that every part of that amendment can be levelled at this Government as a criticism. I have heard speakers in this debate say that they believe this is a good Budget. As far as I, my Party and the other members of the Opposition are concerned, this Budget will go down in history as one of the most negative attempts to cure the evils of inflation and high wage demands. Perhaps no Budget has received such a mauling as this one has received. It has been criticised by every section of the community. Yet we hear Government senators saying that this is a good Budget and that it is acceptable to all. 
The Budget has been criticised even by the Caucus members themselves and by the trade unions. I believe that this criticism by the trade unions is most certainly warranted. This Budget has failed to deal with Australia's twin problems of inflation and unemployment by the use of budgetary measures. We had the spectacle, just a week after the Budget was introduced, of the trade unions meeting in Sydney to discuss the Government's economic policies. What came out of that meeting in Sydney had a very dampening effect on the Government, so much so that within a week of bringing down the Budget the Government made another announcement. The announcement was made at 6 a.m., but every pressman in Parliament House knew about it at 10.30 the night before. Of course, I refer to the Government's decision to devalue the Australian dollar by 12 per cent. I believe that this action did have some relationship to the 2 great problems of inflation and unemployment which we are facing. But at no time since the Government made that announcement has it indicated that it intended to or made an attempt to link the 2 moves as one overall strategy of budgetary action. I believe that it can be claimed quite rightly that devaluation was an afterthought and was an attempt to plug the gaping holes in the Budget. That action was taken to win back for the Government the rapidly waning popularity it previously had with the all-powerful trade unions. 
I am quite sure, upon looking at the Budget, that this document is proof of Labor's mismanagement. It is further proof that since 1972 Labor has governed in a way that can be likened-  Senator Gietzelt  tried to make a little joke a while ago- only to a young novice in a kitchen trying to make a pot of hash. He stands back and chucks anything and everything into the pot and hopes that something of substance will come out of it. That is exactly what this Government has done. It has done this since the time that it came into power. I think all of us recognise that fiscal measures cannot be introduced without here being some proper balance in those measures. If there is not some balance, there will be an unpalatable mess. I think all of us recognise that economic growth can come only through increasing productivity. But an essential part of that increasing productivity is investment. The Government has attempted to obtain growth while stifling investment and reducing productivity. This is just political madness. But what can we expect from this Government? 
A little while ago,  Senator Mulvihill  took us back to the days when this Government first came to power. I well recall those days. This Government came into office fresh from a period of 23 years off the treasury benches. We had a situation in which every Minister rushed in and made great pronouncements on policy, saying that the Government was going to do this and that. Never at any stage did they consider the cost involved or where the money was coming from. 
I am coming to that. I want to take honourable senators back to that because I think that is the whole heart of this Budget. If people make statements such as the ones we have heard from Government Ministers without giving any thought to where we are going or where the money will come from, this is something like economic madness. 
Let me go back to the days when the present Government Party was in Opposition. For a very long period we heard only one spokesman on economic matters from the Opposition side. That was the man who is occupying the position of Treasurer today. Time and time again when there was any policy to be stated by the Opposition Party it was  Mr Crean,  the present Treasurer, who stated it. No one else had a go. But what is the situation today? We have 27 Ministers and we have 27 authorities on the economy of this country, all getting up and telling us how we should do things. 
-We will take 26 Ministers, then. There is plenty of time for  Senator Wheeldon  to get up yet, but it pleases him to say there are 26 authorities making economic announcements at the present time. When one wants to find out about the policies of this Government one has to wade through the 26 pronouncements. One has to see who made them, at what time they made them, and then one might have some idea. 
Let us go back and deal with inflation. Some authorities say that inflation is already running at 20 per cent and it could go even higher very shortly. I want to recall the situation when this Government came to power, when there was a rate of inflation of 4.6 per cent and it was falling at that time because of the measures taken by the Liberal Party-Country Party Government. The new Government came in and announced that it would spend so much on particular areas. It was not very long before we had the inflation rate going up and up. When it started to rise the Opposition questioned the Government and it was told that inflation was a world-wide problem and nothing could be done about it; it was something that had been imported. That was the answer that was given for some considerable time; we had inherited inflation. The Government blamed everyone except itself.  Senator Wheeldon,  and I pay tribute to him, was good enough to send me to New Zealand the other day to look at the accident compensation scheme operating there. I found a little country under a Labor government which is dependent for its income on the sale overseas of primary products. We are told this country that the prices of our primary products are falling, and no doubt they are falling in New Zealand. But I found a country that had no unemployment. I found when walking down a street that every window one looked into had an advertisement asking people to come and work for that employer. 
I will get around to that in a moment. Do not let us pass that one over. If Australia and New Zealand can function side by side under the same type of government, yet one has a very high unemployment rate while the other has no unemployment at all, there must be something vitally wrong with this country. I am quite sure that what is wrong with this country is the policy of this Government. There is no other answer for it. When the Government ran out of excuses such as imported inflation, inherited inflation, the problem being caused by other people, we had a situation where it changed its line of attack and said inflation was the fault of the multi-nationals. The big multi-national companies who were operating in other parts of the world were causing the trouble in Australia. They were the cause of inflation. We went on for a little while longer and then came to a situation where the Senate had been working for a much longer period than in times gone by, putting through legislation at a rapid rate, and suddenly, because it knocked a couple of Bills back, the Labor Party said that inflation in this country was caused by the Senate not passing its measures. They included in their criticism the State governments, particularly those State governments with a Liberal Premier. Let us look at the situation. What was the Senate doing during that period that it had not done at any other time over the last 25 years? Do not tell me that Government senators when they sat on this side of the House did not put up amendments to the Budget, did not take every opportunity to come over to this side and talk to the Democratic Labor Party members who used to sit in this corner to try to get them to support their amendments. Of course they did. 
I want to go a little further because I like reading back over Hansard to see what happened in the past. The Leader of the Government  (Senator Murphy)  expounds on economic problems in this country, and why we have these problems, and what difficult times they are to get around, but he never recalls the time when he sat in the seat opposite and said that everything the Liberal Party-Country Party Government was trying to do was wrong. Before coming into the House today I picked up an interesting quote from the present Leader of the Government, made when he was Leader of the Opposition. He made some comments on 19 May 1967 in the debate on the Post and Telegraph Rates Bill 1967. The Liberal Party-Country Party Government had brought into this chamber some measures which increased the rate of postage and telephone charges. It did this in May, before the Budget. What happened? Opposition senators rose up in their seats full of wrath. How dare the Government do such a thing! The present Leader of the Government is on record as saying this: 
It is a tax on the people who use the Post Office. The increased charges will give an impetus to inflation - 
I do not suppose that happens these days-  at a time when everybody is seeking to prevent unnecessary inflation. 
It is this paragraph which I think is the interesting one. He said: 
This Parliament consists of 2 Houses and any proposed law requires the consent of both. If a proposed law does not receive the consent of this House, then it does not receive the consent ofParliament. Let there be no doubt about that. 
But what does the Leader of the Government say today? He points the finger at the Leader of the Opposition and says: 'If you senators do not pass this legislation we are trying to get through then it will be looked upon as a failure to pass and prohibiting Government legislation from going through this chamber.' 
-That may be so. No doubt we saw the same reason as you are seeing today. It is acknowledged that we have a rate of inflation today. The Government will not acknowledge that it is running at about 20 per cent and even higher. We contested an election on 18 May. We had a situation in which the Opposition set out to try to tell the people of this country that there was an inflation problem developing, and developing very rapidly, and that it was reaching a rate of about 14 per cent at that time. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  said: 'No, we have not got a problem of inflation. This country has never been so prosperous in its life'. He went on saying this for a few weeks and then all of a sudden he woke up and we had an inflation problem. He told the people before the election that the Government had taken certain action and that inflation had fallen by one-third. He went on to peddle the story around the county that having got it down by one-third he could promise the people that by the end of the year it would be down to 8 per cent. What has happened? Where are those promises? Is the Prime Minister still peddling the stuff that he talked about at that time? 
-BROCKM AN -I would say he had not seen a lot of things. He had not even seen the light of day. He was still up there reflecting on the glory of being Prime Minister- the magnificent. We have got to the stage now at which we have a Deputy Prime Minister in the other place who yesterday or the day before made a magnificent discovery. He found that we could cure inflation by productivity. 
-A magnificent discovery. But he wants to cure inflation with productivity without giving any incentive whatever. He wants people to do it for the love of their country. 
-Senator Georges has been here for only 5 minutes and he has not heard what I have said. 
-BROCKM AN -I can keep going that long. The  Deputy  Prime Minister said that productivity is the thing. Let me remind honourable senators that the Liberal PartyCountry Party Government did not discover this in the 1950s or even in the 1960s, but it certainly recognised at that time that productivity had to be the thing that would get Australia on the way to achieving the prosperity that this country is now enjoying. It recognised also that if productivity was to be obtained there had to be incentives. So the Liberal Party-Country Party Government brought legislation into this chamber giving incentives to the people to develop the wealth of this country. 
I would think, from looking at all sections, and acting on the advice given by  Senator Georges'  2 colleagues who had made contributions in this debate, that all sections of the community must be prosperous at present. That is what those 2 senators would say. So those policies developed by the Liberal Party-Country Party Government in the 1950s and 1960s brought the country to that situation, and that situation was developed by fostering free enterprise, which is something of which honourable senators on that side of the House seem to be very critical. 
I just want to remind the honourable senator that free enterprise in this country, as  Senator Townley  said, has been responsible for the provision of 75 per cent of the available jobs at present. Private enterprise has done this. It produces the goods and services which the people of this country apparently demand or want. It creates community wealth, of which I have just spoken, and because of free enterprise, with people going out to work and gaining for themselves more of the things of life in return for money, it creates tax revenue with which this Government is able to introduce its program of welfare. Ilistened to  Senator Mulvihill  speaking about the mining industry in Western Australia. I think that industry was the greatest thing that ever happened to this country. There is no denying it. The Western Australian senators would agree with me. Western Australia until then was a State that was dependent in most instances for its income on the primary industry sector of the community. Because of falling prices overseas Western Australia was finding it difficult to compete and, if you like, to keep up with the development that was taking place in the States on the eastern seaboard. But through free enterprise we got the mining industry established. Some big men were involved in this and I remind  Senator Mulvihill  that if he goes to Kalgoorlie in Western Australia he will find one of the most knowledgeable men in the mining industry there. He is one of the most respected men there and is the son of a former Labor member of the Western Australian Parliament. He is a big mining man, but is he a man who is living in a great house? I see honourable senators opposite looking at each other. They do not even know their own history. 
Well, there is nothing in the mining industry while you leave the minerals in the ground. You have to get it out first of all in order to get something for it. You have to get the mining industry to develop the north-west of Western Australia, to develop the harbours, to put down railways and to develop the infrastructure, such as accommodation for the people working there. 
-Where did he get his instructions from? Where did he write from? Answer those questions and we will believe that report. 
I think that all Australians are very well respected but we are not compelled to agree with everything he says simply because he is a respected member of the community. I want to remind honourable senators opposite that the boom in Western Australia has paid off. It was brought about by free enterprise and by offering incentives to people. This is nothing new. Yet the Acting Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  of this country speaks up as though it is. I was reminded this week of what Abraham Lincoln had to say on this subject and I would like to quote it because even in his day he recognised that one had to give incentive to a man to get something back. Abraham Lincoln said: 
You cannot bring about prosperity by discouraging thrift. You cannot strengthen the weak by weakening the strong. You cannot help the wage earner by pulling down the wage payer. You cannot further the brotherhood of man by encouraging class hatred. You cannot establish sound security on borrowed money alone. You cannot build character and courage by taking away man's initiative and independence. You cannot help a man permanently by doing for him that which he can and should do for himself. 
Sitting suspended from 5.56 to  8  p.m. 
I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate who represents the Acting Prime Minister whether he is aware that the Minister for Labor and Immigration said in Adelaide on 1 3 August that he would rather go out of office than be responsible for having 250,000 people out of work. In view of that statement by the responsible Minister, and in view of the current unemployment figure of 120,000, can the claim yesterday by the Acting Prime Minister that unemployment is not serious be seen as anything but an attempt to sweep under the carpet a problem which has reached alarming proportions? 
The Nitrogenous Fertilisers Subsidy Bill before the Senate seeks to extend the Nitrogenous Fertilisers Subsidy Act 1966-1973 for a period of 12 months to 31 December 1975 pending an inquiry and report on the subsidy by the Industries Assistance Commission. I shall make a few points in regard to this Bill. First of all, I note that under the Industries Assistance Commission Act section 23 states: 
1 ) The Minister may refer to the Commission for inquiry and report any matter relating to the giving, continuance or withdrawal of assistance to an industry____ by the Australian Government, and may, when so referring a matter, specify a period within which the Commission is to report on that matter. 
Under this legislation the Government has done this. It has made a referral and it has asked the Commission to report on the reference by September 1975, after which the Government will decide on assistance beyond 3 1 December 1975. I congratulate the Government on the way it has approached this matter in this piece of legislation. I regret very much that the Government did not see fit to proceed along the lines set out in the legislation in respect of the superphosphate bounty. Honourable senators will recall that the superphosphate bounty has been in operation for some years and that the Government made an announcement that it would decide to introduce no further legislation in that field when the bounty concluded on 3 1 December 1974. 
-Yes. This is a very subtle way of getting around it. The honourable senator may have noted when I quoted section 23 of the Industries Assistance Commission Act that where a bounty has been in force for 2 years or more and the Government wants to withdraw it or increase it, it should refer it to the Commission. However, in some subtle legislative manner this Government saw fit just to let it lapse and I object to that. Now it is in trouble and is saying that if an industry can put up a case the Government will listen to it. I am congratulating the Minister on this legislation because there would be a period between the lapsing of the legislation and the time that the Industries Assistance Commission made its report when there would be no superphosphate bounty at all; under this legislation there is no such gap. The Government has seen fit to increase the bounty for a further period of 12 months while waiting for the report to be lodged. The report has to be completed by September 1 975 so that the Government will have time to make a decision before the extra year runs out. 
Under this legislation from 1 July 1973 to 30 June 1974 the Government paid out about $13,572,100 bounty on 595,049 tonnes of superphosphate. Clearly a very good sum of money is involved in the industry and this is important particularly when one looks at the forecast by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics that net income from rural sources will be down by 50 per cent this year. This estimate is based on a substantial drop in the value of rural production plus a 20 per cent increase in costs. The bounty of about $13m does go somewhere towards offsetting that increase and the industry would be very much worse off without it. According to the forecast of the Bureau the increased cost is estimated to be just below $500m of which wages are estimated to take up about $70m. The fertiliser cost is estimated to account for about $82m. While congratulating the Government on making this amount of money available there is a distinct difference between the $13m that the Government is providing and the increase of $82m that the industry is facing this year. Having made those points I say that the Opposition has no objection to this Bill and we are very glad that the Government has seen fit to extend the bounty for a further 12 months. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and reported from Committee without amendment or debate; report adopted. 
-My question is addressed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. In view of the current state of uncertainty in the Australian motor vehicle industry, when will the government announce a decision on the Industries Assistance Commission report on the vehicle industry? 
I thought that you might be able to answer it as Leader of the Government, rather than the Minister. As the report was received more than 3 months ago and as the situation within the industry in the meantime has rapidly deteriorated, does the urgency not demand a prompt and clear statement of the Government 's intention on the report? 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Tourism and Recreation. It relates to the closure now being effected of the space vehicle tracking station at Carnarvon in Western Australia. In view of its considerable historical and tourist value will the Government consider preserving the main building and vesting the building and immediate surrounds of the telemetry and control area in the shire of Carnarvon for the purpose of a museum? Towards this end will the Government assist also in the retention of photographs, plaques and other data worthy of preservation? 
-My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. Has any change been made in the original order for the purchase of 75 light observation helicopters for Army operations? If a change has been made, what is it and why was such a change necessary? How will the change affect the final unit cost? Can the Minister say what was the original contract price, including all spares and associated items of cost, and what is the present estimate? When can it be expected that final delivery of these aircraft will be made? 
-My question is addressed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I refer to the Prime Minister's threat to introduce a new penalty tax on wage increases as a means of countering inflation. I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate whether it is correct that the Prime Minister has abandoned hopes of wage restraint by the trade unions, regardless of whether quarterly cost of living adjustments are introduced? 
The Senate is debating a Bill which seeks to amend the Book Bounty Act to implement a recommendation contained in the Tariff Board Report of 21 September 1973. The report recommends that the bounty be increased from 25 per cent, which was an interim measure of assistance pending the Board's report, to331/3 per cent. The Opposition does not oppose the Bill. When the bounty was introduced by the Liberal-Country Party Government the book printing industry in Australia was in a pretty sorry state. There was little doubt that Australian authors would have been forced to engage overseas printers if the 
Government had not come to the aid of the industry. I draw the attention of the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Murphy)  to a couple of points. Concern has been expressed in some quarters about the character of some books which attract the bounty. 
When this Book Bounty Bill was debated in another place the honourable member for Fisher  (Mr Adermann)  raised this point. At this time I am not pursuing this concern further but I point out to the Minister that the Government paid out almost $3m in 1972-73 in the form of book bounties. Yet a record of the book titles is not required to be kept. I believe that this ought to be done. I am fully aware that there are difficulties in determining that one book should attract a bounty and another book should not but I believe that any government which grants a book bounty and then does not require to be told the titles lays itself open to charge of slipshod administration. I shall not pursue that argument further. Perhaps the Minister will give the reasons for this. Otherwise I suggest that we put the motion that the Bill be read a second time. 
-The Minister for the Media will be aware that the Deputy Prime Minister has alleged that the Australian Press is attempting to bring about the downfall of the Labor Government. I ask whether he recalls any Labor spokesman complaining about biased and unfair political reporting in the months preceding Labor's election win in 1972. Does the Minister see the Press as collectively and consistently biased in political reporting or is it accurate to say that Press reports and comments in the main are clear reflections of good or bad government? 
-My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Special Minister of State. Is the Minister aware that the Local Government Association of Western Australia has alleged that there is discrimination by the Federal Government in the treatment of applications for unemployment grants to authorities in that State? Will the Minister outline the criteria to be met before a local government authority qualifies for a grant? In view of the serious allegations, will he also table in the Senate lists of Western Australian local authorities which have applied for grants and those which have had their applications approved? 
-Brockman asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) When will the Government announce a decision on the Industries Assistance Commission's Report on the Motor Vehicle Industry. 
Was the Report of the Commission received by the Government three months ago; if so, has the situation within the industry rapidly deteriorated since that time. 
Does the urgency of the situation demand a prompt and clear statement of the Government 's intentions on the Report. 
I ask leave to take the Seamen's Compensation Bill and the Compensation (Australian Government Employees) Bill together. 
I  present the following petition from 96 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. We the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth, by this our humble petition respectfully showeth: 
That the existing matrimonial laws in Australia are archaic, unrealistic, and cruel and so completely at variance with modern thought as to require their immediate repeal. 
That there is such urgent need for reform that there must be no delay in presenting the Family Law Bill 1974 to Parliament for debate. 
That the ground of Irretrievable Breakdown of Marriage be the sole ground for divorce with proof of this determined by a maximum of twelve months separation. 
That dissolution of marriage must come out of the legal system with people resolving their family matters between themselves according to guidelines and with assistance of a mediator. Family Courts only to be used for enforcement as a last resort. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Agriculture. I refer to the inquiry into the stabilisation of farmers' incomes announced yesterday by the Prime Minister. Was the Prime Minister acting on his own initiative or did the Industries Assistance Commission invite a direction that the inquiry be conducted? Will implementation of Labor rural policy be suspended until the Industries Assistance Commission makes its recommendations? When does the Minister hope that the recommendations will be placed before the Government? 
I speak to the motion for referral of the National Compensation Bill to the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. I make it clear that in doing so I am not referring to the second reading speech that the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation  (Senator Wheeldon)  has just delivered. I say, firstly, that this is a far-reaching, all-embracing piece of social welfare legislation. I think that it needs to be studied very carefully and in great depth. I noted that  Senator Everett  stated in his motion that he desired referral so that the Committee could study the clauses of the Bill. I take it that in studying the clauses of the Bill the Committee would have to study the Woodhouse report in depth at the same time. 
If that is the case, I am pleased to say that I accept that this matter should be referred to the Committee. 
-Yes. I take the opportunity of saying that the Minister in handling this Bill has been very good to me as the Opposition spokesman on this matter. He has extended every courtesy to me. He has kept me informed of what he is endeavouring to do and he has explained his next moves. I am very grateful to the Minister for this. He made available to me the opportunity to go to New Zealand- I thank him for that- to study the scheme in operation there. He has made the staff of his Department available to me. I see the Head of the Department and other members of his staff in the premises. Each of them made a contribution in his assistance to me and I thank them for this. I thank the Minister's personal staff who were very good to me and who did everything possible to see that I was fully informed of what was involved in this legislation. 
I hope that the Minister will give this Committee sufficient time time to study in depth the clauses of this Bill and the Woodhouse report in detail. I hope also that the Minister will give the Committee sufficient time to take representations and submissions from the people who are interested in compensation in this country. If that is not to be the situation, then the referral of this matter to the Committee will be only a token exercise. If a time limit were imposed on the Committee so that, say, in a month's time it had to make a report to this Senate, the Minister or the Government could be charged with creating a situation in which it could say: 'We have referred the matter to the Committee and the Committee has been compelled to make a report. What else do you want?' This legislation is far more important than that. After listening to the Minister's second reading speech and to  Senator Everett's  remarks, I think that both of those gentlemen realise the importance of this legislation. 
There are few people who could contradict me when I say that there are very grave deficiencies in the current compensation schemes. These deficiencies are well known to all of us- to State Governments, judges, lawyers, employers, employees, union officials and everyone associated with compensation. All of us will admit that. I believe that the deficiencies in the present compensation schemes- we dealt with one of them today, and honourable senators will recall that the 6 States each has a compensation scheme providing varying benefits, varying upper limits and lump sum payments and so on- could be reduced if we had compensation schemes operating not just to and from work and while at work but for 24 hours a day. I believe also that third party insurance compensation schemes would be much more effective if they were made available on a no-fault basis. This is what Woodhouse envisages being incorporated in a new scheme. 
Having had the opportunity of looking at the Woodhouse report, I have a number of difficulties with it. However, I would like to say at this stage that I pay tribute to Owen Woodhouse. I have spent a tremendous amount of time with him, through the Minister, endeavouring to understand what he had in mind. I think the man is quite honest and has tried to make a very good attempt at rectifying the position which exists at present. I have a number of problems with his report but before I go on to deal with them I should refer to some of the steps taken by the Minister. The Minister tabled volume 1 of the Woodhouse report in this place on 10 July. He then tabled the second volume on 26 September this year and at the time of tabling it he gave us to understand that there was a further volume to be tabled, an important volume which he called the compendium, which contained all the statistical information. Unfortunately this could not be tabled at the time of the tabling of the second volume because of printing problems. But when he did table it, it was after he had introduced the legislation in the other place. This is a most important volume. It contained all the statistical information and the information that the Committee used in compiling statistics of the cost of funding its scheme. 
This compendium contained all the information which the Committee had compiled after over 15 months of work and two or three trips overseas by members of the Committee to get this statistical information. Yet the Government saw fit to provide this information after the Bill had been introduced in the other place and Opposition members had to debate the Bill without having had any time in which to substantiate the satistical information contained in the report. That is one of my criticisms. Leaving the Minister's actions aside, I go to some of the points in the report that worry me. Woodhouse talked about the funding of the scheme- the Minister has just made mention of it- and suggested a levy on employers of 2 per cent of wages paid by them, a levy of 2 per cent on the taxable earnings of self-employed people, plus a levy of 10c a gallon on petrol and dieseline. In his second reading speech the Minister said that the Government would like the Treasury to look at alternative methods to the 10c per gallon levy on dieseline and petrol. What are the alternative methods? The Minister has referred this question to the Treasury and to his Department to examine, but we are to discuss this Bill, it having been discussed already in the other place, knowing that the Government is not in favour of the suggested levy, yet not knowing what the Government is in favour of. 
In his second reading speech the Minister said that there will be a running down of the insurance industry before the Government commences operations, and that the Government, through the Treasury if I remember correctly, would discuss this matter with the general insurance industry. But we are told nothing of where the discussions may lead us or what is to be the outcome, and we do not know at this stage what the objections of the insurance industry are. So I believe that the Committee should have this opportunity to study these points I have raised. Earlier I made mention of the fact that we have 7 compensation schemes operating in Australia at the present time, with six of them conducted by the State Governments. I have seen no announcement about what the Government intends to do or what negotiations there are between the State and the Australian governments on this matter. I recognise that if the Commonwealth scheme comes into operation it will take precedence over the State schemes. In fact the State schemes will fold up. I have been in touch with some of the States and I know their reactions to this proposal. I also know that the States are not enjoying the best of the situation in regard to their present compensation schemes. Some of the States, like the insurance industry, are finding difficulty in managing their present compensation schemes. I believe that the Senate should know the reaction of the States to this legislation. 
I should also like to know what is the reaction of the insurance industry. Like the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation I have had the opportunity to meet representatives of the insurance industry. I am sure that the Minister and anyone interested in compensation and third party insurance can tell us that the insurance industry is a quite divided industry. It contains a number of sections and none of them are in agreement. I thought that the farmers were bad enough but I have found that the insurance industry is a little worse. Representatives of the insurance industry have come to me and told me that they have an alternative scheme to put to the Minister. I think they have probably skirted around it. They have skirted around it with me but they have not put anything substantive to me. I believe that they should put something substantive and that they should have the opportunity of talking to the Committee about their views, about what proposals they have and about what should be done from the point of view of general insurance. I have also talked to members of the legal profession. 
-They are all in agreement all right. They are in agreement one way. I believe that they have some points that should be expressed to the Committee. I do not say that I agree with the submission that they put forward but I believe it is a submission that should be heard by the Committee. I see my friend  Senator James  McClelland sitting over there. Tonight he is a great ally of mine. I am talking about the Compensation (Australian Government Employees) Bill. I think that  Senator James  McClelland will recall that when this Bill was before the House last year  Senator Rae  and I made certain submissions to the effect that the Government should wait before doing anything about that legislation until the Woodhouse report came out.  Senator James  McClelland said to me and to the Senate: 'You cannot possibly do that because the Woodhouse report is going to take at least 5 years before it comes out'. If  Senator James  McClelland wants confirmation of that I will read into Hansard what he said on that occasion. But I do not think it is necessary. 
I suggest that he has a look at Hansard of 5 June 1973 at pages 2307 and 2308. He will see that he went to great lengths to explain to the Senate that the Woodhouse report would take some years. He even referred to the New Zealand situation. I mean to go on and talk about New Zealand. In that country it took some 6 years from the time the royal commission was appointed in 1966, under the chairmanship of the same gentleman to whom we are referring here-  Mr Justice  Woodhouse- until the Bill was presented. The royal commission reported in 1967. In 1969, following that report the Government ordered a White Paper to be prepared on the report of the commission. After that White Paper had been discussed the Government set up a parliamentary select committee which reported on the matter in 1 970. Working parties studied the draft Bill drawn up by the select committee, and the legislation was presented late in 1971. 1 think  Senator Everett-  or was it the Minister- referred to the fact that the Bill was introduced by the National Party. 
It was the Minister. 
I did not listen to his second reading speech because I knew what would be in it. The legislation was introduced by the National Party, and the Labor Party, when it came into office, added the nonearner section to the legsilation. So both parties in New Zealand had a bite of the cherry. There was great uniformity between the 2 parties in New Zealand on this matter. I look at  Senator Durack,  at  Senator James  McClelland and at a few more like them - 
-He is listening with his eyes closed. There are one of two other points about which I am concerned. When I went to New Zealand I talked to the officials there. I recall that when the legislation went through the Parliament an offer was made to the insurance industry to take over the agency for the commission. The insurance industry had put up proposals to the New Zealand Government opposing such legislation. When this offer was made the industry had to about face and think very deeply about whether it should take over the agency. But in the meantime the Government made an offer to the State Insurance Office and it quickly accepted the agency. The situation that worries me is that the State Insurance Office immediately went out and bought, hired or rented office space- I do not know the correct terminology and perhaps the Minister's officers will be able to tell him- in every regional centre throughout New Zealand in order to set up offices. 
I notice from looking through the Bill that the secretary of the Department of Compensation is to be given the discretion to do what he believes is right in this situation. I wonder how far he will go. I questioned the Minister and his departmental officials about advertisements that have already appeared in the newspapers throughout Australia seeking staff and senior officers for this new department. When I suggested that the legislation might not go through this House I was told that the staff could be used quite easily in other places. I do not doubt that for one minute but I am afraid that there might be a great build up of staff. I am a little concerned at this, particularly when I read tonight in some papers provided to me, arising out of the questioning of the Estimates Committee, that in one place $25,000 will be spent on typewriters. Another line shows that an additional $12,500 will be spent on more typewriters. A lot of people must be going to use those typewriters or they must be pretty dear to purchase. These are some of the things that worry me. 
As I said today in relation to the Compensation (Australian Government Employees) Bill, when legislation was introduced in 1973 the Senate delayed it so that it could be examined further. The legislation was referred to the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs for examination and then the Senate debated the matter further. Today we debated legislation in this place which the Minister decided not to pursue in 1973. 1 believe it is well worth that extra time in examining legislation in this place, particularly when one recalls the Trade Practices Bill which was introduced into the Senate and then, because of the proroguing of the Parliament, it disappeared from the notice paper. When next introduced into the Senate it contained 109 amendments put there by the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy).  Surely that is good reason, for extra examination of legislation which comes through this place. I see the Attorney-General in this place. I recall to him that after the Bill disappeared from the notice paper for the second time because of the double dissolution of Parliament and when he brought it back for final debate, he had added another 24 amendments to it. That bears out the suggestion that we should take legislation of this sort carefully and examine it in depth and in detail. 
I agree with  Senator James  McClelland that the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation is just as reasonable. He has referred this legislation to the Constitutional and Legal Affairs Committee. I am only saying that I hope the Committee will have an opportunity to examine the legislation in detail and in depth. My other concern is the common law aspect. This is a very important matter. I am not a lawyer. I am sometimes called a bush lawyer. I am told by my legal friends that in matters of common law where one sues some 80 per cent of cases are settled out of court. How are they settled out of court? I am told that they are settled out of court because of the vast experience of lawyers who believe that they know what the court will say. I smile. A lawyer can do that, but if we refer this matter to a commission the commissioners cannot do that. Why? I would like the Committee to have a look at that aspect. On the other hand I am quite sure that there must be people who, if they have cases settled by the Commission, do not always get satisfaction. 
Perhaps they should have the opportunity of endeavouring to get satisfaction through common law. I do not know whether I am right or wrong. Perhaps the Minister can have the commissioner deciding in the main, but if one does not believe that he is getting satisfaction through the commission then he can take his case to common law. Is anything wrong with that?  Mr Justice  Woodhouse says that it is not necessary. I am not sure whether it is necessary but I hope that this Senate Committee made up of lawyers will have a look at this point to see whether we cannot have the 2 aspects running side by side. 
-I am not making that kind of speech. I am giving some guidance to the Committee. When I make a speech in a second reading debate  Senator Georges  will know it. I am only indicating to the Committee what I believe should be done. I think I have been on the Government's side tonight most of the way. 
-Can the 
Minister representing the Minister for Defence say what stage the replacement program for the Winjeel, the present Royal Australian Air Force basic training aircraft, has reached? Is the Minister able to say whether the total requirement is still 37 aircraft? Has there been any change in the total estimated project cost? When is delivery of the first aircraft expected? 
I present the following petition from 46 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members ofthe Senate in Parliament assembled. We the undersigned Citizens of the Commonwealth, by this our humble petition respectfully showeth: 
That the existing matrimonial laws in Australia are archaic, unrealistic, and cruel and so completely at variance with modern thought as to require their immediate repeal. 
That there is such urgent need for reform that there must be no delay in presenting the Family Law Bill 1 974 to Parliament for debate. 
That the ground of irretrievable Breakdown of Marriage be the sole ground for divorce with proof of this determined by a maximum of twelve months separation. 
That dissolution of marriage must come out of the legal system with people resolving their family matters between themselves according to guidelines and with assistance of a mediator. Family Courts only to be used for enforcement as a last resort. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
Is the Minister representing the Treasurer aware of the apprehension in rural areas at the Government's proposal to introduce a capital gains tax at a time when rural producers are facing heavy reductions in net income? Is he also aware that people are demanding to know, as quickly as possible, the details of the new tax impost? Can the Minister say when legislation will be introduced into the Parliament? 
-I ask the Minister for Agriculture whether he could elaborate on the Prime Minister's 8-line reference in last night's economic statement to an urgent examination of problems confronting the beef industry. Has the examination commenced? Who is conducting it? What are the guidelines? Has a deadline been fixed for a submission of recommendations to the Government? 
I present the following petition from 24 citizens of Australia. 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that: 
Divorce is a social and medical problem not a legal issue and should be relieved accordingly; 
Irretrievable breakdown must be the only ground with a maximum of twelve months separation; 
When making property settlements the court must take into account the direct and indirect financial and other contributions made to the acquisition, conservation or improvement of the property by the parties in the capacity of homemaker, parent or otherwise; 
There must be urgent reform and the Family Law Bill must be presented to Parliament forthwith and accepted without further delay. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question is addressed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate and I refer to the Prime Minister's nation-wide appeal to the community to accept the latest tax cuts as a substitute for new wage rises. Did the Prime Minister attempt to reach a no wage demand agreement with the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions,  Mr Hawke,  before the tax cuts were announced? If so, what was the outcome? If the appeal for wage restraint fails who will be to blame for further deterioration of the economy, the unions or the Government? 
I present the following petition from 21 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. We the undersigned Citizens of the Commonwealth, by this our humble Petition respectfully showeth: 
That the existing matrimonial laws in Australia are archaic, unrealistic, and cruel and so completely at variance with modem thought as to require their immediate repeal. 
That there is such urgent need for reform that there must be no delay in presenting the Family Law Bill 1974 to Parliament for debate. 
That the ground of Irretrievable Breakdown of Marriage be the sole ground for divorce with proof of this determined by a maximum of twelve months separation. 
That dissolution of marriage must come out of the legal system with people resolving their family matters between themselves according to guidelines and with assistance of a mediator. Family Courts only to be used for enforcement as a last resort. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I preface my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate by referring to the fact that the quadrupled price of imported oil is a major factor in high inflation overseas and that Australia, because it is 70 per cent self-sufficient in oil, is virtually free of that crippling economic burden. In view of this I ask: Why is the Government strangling Australia's oil exploration and production industries? Does the Government recognise that every act of discouragement of our oil industries is a step towards the destruction of our strongest fortress against imported inflation? 
-My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. 
-Yes, this question is without notice. The Minister will recall his recent answer to questions about naval and air patrols checking on foreign fishing vessels off the Western Australian coast. In view of the continuing build up of foreign naval power in the Indian Ocean, what other patrols, if any, are operated through Pearce and Learmonth bases by aircraft of the maritime reconnaissance squadrons? How frequent are the patrols? Does the Government intend to increase such patrols? 
-My question is addressed to the Minister for Agriculture. He will be aware that the Industries Assistance Commission's report on the application by Western Australian new land farmers for a continuation of the superphosphate bounty is critical to the viability of many farms. As the bounty expires on 31 December, can the Minister give any indication when the report will be received by the Government? Can the Minister indicate whether he or the Government has made any request that this application be given some urgency? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. In view of the Minister's continual boasting about the quality of pay and conditions in the Services, for which the previous Government was largely responsible, I ask: Does the unprecedented number of resignations of senior officers indicate that far from being a bed of roses something is seriously amiss with the defence establishment? Is this not highlighted by the impending resignations of 2 top officers in the Royal Australian Air Force? Does the Minister deny that the cause is the Government-created intrusion of non-military personnel into areas which traditionally and rightfully are the domain of trained military men? Can Australia afford such a heavy loss of its military expertise, even at a time when the Government places low priority on defence needs? 
Is the Minister for Customs and Excise aware that under the Government's revised motor vehicle manufacturing policy the cost disabilities already suffered by Australian farmers with respect to the Government's policies will be accentuated? Is he aware that the level of duties payable on 4-wheel drive passenger vehicles will rise- bearing in mind that they are not manufactured in Australia but are imported either in a fully assembled or knocked down condition? Will the Minister consider excluding 4-wheel drive vehicles from the additional duty as a recognition of the severity of problems facing most primary producers? 
Is the Minister for Customs and Excise aware that there is an over-production of Japanese manufactured cars in Japan? Has the Minister any evidence that cars fully assembled in Japan or reassembled from a knockdown vehicle of Japanese origin are being sold at lower prices to Australian buyers than to buyers in Japan? Has he received any complaints from Australian based interests about this matter? If so, what consideration is being given to taking action on this matter? 
-My question is addressed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Is it a fact that the Industries Assistance Commission has reversed tariff recommendations in cases in which it considered that there was even a slight chance of its original report adversely affecting employment? Was this change of attitude conveyed in a letter from the  Chairman  of the Commission to the Prime Minister? I ask whether the change of heart is a voluntary action of the Industries Assistance Commission, a response to a request by the Prime Minister or a concession to demands by the Australian Council of Trade Unions. Will the new approach of the Commission be extended to the relief of other problems, such as lack of incentives for increased productivity in primary industry? 
-My question is addressed to the Minister for Agriculture. Does he believe that consultation means give and take by both sides after worthwhile consideration of the issues involved? Is it not true that the wheat and wool industries have been denied such consultation? Why has the Minister not related the first payment for the 1974-75 wheat crop to the world market prices and costs to the growers in the manner that retailers are relating bread prices to their higher costs? Why has the Minister threatened to withdraw the 250c per kilo floor price for the wool industry after 1 July 1975 unless the Australian Wool Industry Conference agrees to the restructuring of the membership of the Australian Wool Corporation? 
-I ask the 
Leader of the Government in the Senate: Is it true to say that the traditional optimism amongst Australian industrialists and businessmen and even the man in the street has been jolted by a sharp downturn in the economy? Is it also true that this calls for expressions of encouragement rather than discouragement by the Government of the day? Why then do the Prime Minister and other Ministers make the deliberate point that inflation and unemployment are problems throughout the Western world and are incapable of solution? How can the people respond to a call for increased national effort if at the same time the Government preaches propaganda that breeds defeatism? Would not Australia's interests be better served by the Government inviting the people to accept the challenge to prove to the the rest of the world that inflation can be beaten? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Defence whether the pay and conditions of the Services are as attractive as the Minister has stated on many occasions. In view of the fact that the Kerr Committee completed a very searching inquiry into all aspects of the Services pay and conditions less than 2 years ago, why has the Government appointed a psychologist to find out what is wrong with morale in the Services? 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration. Will the Minister table the file relating to the entry into Australia of the Dungca family? 
I have 4 minutes in which to say something. To you,  Mr Deputy President,  may I say thank you very much. I am very glad to see you shoulder responsibility as  Deputy President  of the Senate. We in this corner are very proud of you for the job you have done. To the people who have laboured behind the scenes to make this Parliament work I say thank you very much. To  Mr Odgers  and his officers and all the staff who work behind him I say that we in the Australian Country Party are very appreciative of the work they have done. I mention also those people who have worked during the past year whom we do not see but who make this Parliament operate. 

 Senator Murphy said that this has been an interesting year. Yes, it has been an interesting year but I wonder for whom it has been interesting. I do not think it has been an interesting year for the Government or one of which it could be proud, but that is being political. I am seldom political but I would like without stroking his back to thank  Senator Reg  Withers and his Party very much for the leadership they have given on this side of the Senate. I recognise the leadership that has been given on the other side of the Senate and appreciate the manner in which we have been able to talk together, because if we cannot talk together this Parliament cannot operate. That is all I say about that. 
To  Senator Don  Willesee, whom I see sitting in the chamber, to  Senator Ian  Wood and  Senator Wright  who is not here, I offer congratulations upon their 25 years of service to the Parliament. I do not think I will make it, but I am very glad to see  Senator Don  Willesee still here because he lives in a part of Australia that counts. Every year for which he moves backwards and forwards between that part of the Commonwealth and this part of the Commonwealth to my mind is the equivalent of 3 years for any one else. I congratulate him on his 25 years service in this Parliament. I say to you,  Mr Deputy President,  to the officers of the Parliament and to everyone else that I wish you a merry Christmas and all the best of the season. 
-Has the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation received complaints from consultant specialists or visiting medical officers about overdue payment for their services to the Repatriation Department? Is it a fact that payments, often involving a 4-figure sum, are sometimes held up for several weeks? Has any consultant or visiting doctor been told by the Minister or departmental officers that the cause of the delay was the shortage of funds? Can the Minister give an assurance that payments in the future will be regular and prompt? 

 -Mr President, I wish to ask a supplementary question of the Leader of the Government in the Senate. 
I seek leave to make a statement on the same subject. 
-On behalf of Australian Country Party senators may I support  Senator Withers  in offering congratulations to  Senator Wriedt  on his appointment as Leader of the Government in the Senate. I wish him well in his office. I am quite sure that he will find it interesting and I think, to a degree, rewarding. I know that  Senator Wriedt  will have some problems and might say to himself: 'Why did I ever offer myself for the position?'. It has always been my belief that leaders of the Government in the Senate have to be able to communicate. From my experience with  Senator Wriedt  1 believe he will be able to communicate. I know from a statement I saw yesterday that this is the objective of the new leader. I say to him on behalf of the Country Party and on my own behalf that I am sure we will co-operate with him at all times. I wish  Senator Wriedt  well, as  Senator Withers  has said, in his short stay in office. 
The Country Party offers its congratulations to  Senator James  McClelland. We are very pleased to see him in his new position and we look forward to working with him. We offer  Senator James  McClelland the same co-operation that we have offered to  Senator Wriedt,  whatever the task may be. 
In directing a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate, I refer to the much publicised denials by the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime 
Minister that the Government's economic policy had been set in reverse. Is it a fact that the Prime Minister throughout last year stubbornly refused to cut Government expenditure as a means of checking inflation? Did he consistently uphold the Government's decision to abolish the superphosphate bounty? How can the Government's new approach to these questions be described as anything but a reversal of policy or, in Labor terms, does 'reverse' mean to go forward backwards? 
-Does the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation recall the Prime Minister's Press statement following the Darwin cyclone disaster? Did the Prime Minister imply that Darwin residents would have been eligible for compensation under the terms of the National Compensation Bill if the Bill had been passed by the Senate last year? Is it a fact that the Bill has not been rejected but referred to a Senate committee for detailed study which even the Government acknowledges is necessary? Is it correct that the proposed compensation legislation is not intended to become operative until July 1976? If so, how could the unfortunate people of Darwin have benefited? Did the Minister correct the Prime Minister's erroneous statement? If not, will he do so now? 
-My question, which is addressed to the Minister for Agriculture, refers to the Government's decision to request the Industries Assistance Commission to review the abolition of the superphosphate bounty. I ask whether consideration of applications already referred to the IAC on behalf of new land farmers in Western Australia is to proceed separately from the general review? If so, is a recommendation expected before the general review is completed? Will the Minister give an assurance that should the IAC recommend a bounty, the Government will make the new bounty retrospective to 1 January 1975? 
-I ask the 
Minister for Repatriation and Compensation: Is it true, as reports state, that the Government has decided on the level of compensation which it will grant to the unfortunate victims of the Darwin cyclone? I ask the Minister whether victims who suffered personal injury are to be paid according to the principles of the proposed national compensation scheme; that is, 85 per cent of loss of earnings while off work and, in the case of housewives, $50 a week while they recover. If so, is this a precedent which will be followed in relation to victims of any natural disaster which happens before Parliament debates and votes on the National Compensation Bill? Has the Government anticipated, while a parliamentary committee is still investigating the national compensation proposal, that the legislation as put forward will be passed? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Agriculture. Is it a fact that he has admitted on numerous occasions in recent months that the Australian meat industry is in trouble? Does he now admit that the situation has worsened to the point of crisis? Is he aware that many meat producers, including third and fourth generation graziers, say that they will be forced to walk off their properties in the next few months unless urgent help is given by the Government? Is the Minister further aware that the $20m made available through the Commonwealth Development Bank is reaching only a limited number of producers because the criteria of lending are too stringent? Will the Minister state what his Government intends to do immediately to alleviate this crisis? 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation. He will recall my interest during the sitting of one of the Senate estimates committees about advertisements calling applications for several key positions in the compensation division of his Department. He will recall also that I questioned, by implication, the wisdom of appointing officers while the proposed legislation was still in its infancy. Can the Minister tell the Senate which positions in the proposed compensation division have been filled? If any have been filled, what positions are they? When will the officers take up duty? 
-My question is addressed to the Minister for Manufacturing Industry. I refer to the Prime Minister's assertion that it is garbage to say that Australia's record unemployment is the result of tariff cuts, and also to the reaction this has brought from some of the unions he continues to bash. Can the Minister say how many workers in the textile and associated industries have lost their jobs as a direct result of increased competition from imported goods? Has a survey been carried out to determine how many job losses in the entire work force can be attributed to tariff cuts? If so, what is the figure? Did the Minister say in a speech to the Textiles Institute's annual conference this month that import competition at the present level has caused disruption in the industry and has contributed to social problems of some magnitude? How can these statements be reconciled with the Prime Minister's talk of garbage? 
Is the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs in a position to state how many Australian citizens are living in the besieged Cambodian capital of Phnom Penh, and whether any arrangements have been made to evacuate them in the event of the city falling to Communist forces? Can the Minister tell me whether Australia will play any part in the proposed emergency airlift of food supplies to Phnom Penh? 
I direct my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I refer him to a part of my question yesterday about Cambodia which the Minister did not answer. I ask again whether Australia will take part in any airlift of food supplies to Phnom 
Penh. Has the Lon Nol Government requested Australian assistance and, if so, how did we respond? If not, has Australia offered assistance or is the Government unconcerned about the fate of thousands of men, women and children who appear to be desperately short of food? 
I just want to hear the reply. 
-The Minister for Manufacturing Industry will have knowledge of representations made over several months to the Federal Government to assist Perth's garment manufacturers who are in serious financial difficulties as a result of the Government's tariff policies. Is the Minister aware that the companies, which sell as much as 80 per cent of their products on the eastern seaboard, chose to operate at considerable loss in the hope that the situation would improve and dismissals would not be necessary? Does he acknowledge that Western Australia's isolation and lack of other employment opportunities give the Perth garment industry just claims to assistance under the structural adjustment program for non-metropolitan areas? If so, will he take the appropriate action without further delay? 
-My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. Is the Minister aware that the Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals has requested that a team of trained officers be sent with the initial task force to areas devastated by natural disasters? Is it a fact that the request has arisen from the rejection of an offer by the RSPCA to send such a team to Darwin on Boxing Day of last year? Does the Minister agree that, where practicable, trained personnel should be available in disaster areas to care for and control animals? If so, will he support the Society's request? 
-The Opposition will support these Government amendments which cover the concern which the Opposition had. One would like to take up the Minister for Manufacturing Industry  (Senator James McClelland)  on some of the remarks about the economic situation which he made in replying to the debate. One would think that in formulating the original Bill the Government would have taken into consideration the decentralisation policy which it expounds and also the situation associated with the monopolies legislation which it has brought down. But as the Opposition agrees to the amendments I do not think we should go into those arguments at the present time. I just mention them in reply to what the Minister said when summing up the debate on the second reading. 
Amendments and request agreed to. 
Bill, as amended and with requested amendment, agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments and a request; reported adopted. 
The Opposition accepts the undertaking given by the Minister for Manufacturing Industry  (Senator James McClelland).  We recognise that the bounty has been outstanding since December 1973. It was frozen, as the Minister said. We believe that payment of the bounty to the people to whom it is to go should be made as promptly as possible. We have some concern about the Bill but now that the Minister has given us his undertaking that satisfies the Opposition's concern. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Manufacturing Industry. I refer to yesterday's announcement of import quotas on certain garments, to which I was directed by the Minister when he replied to my question about the plight of the clothing industry in Western Australia. Is the Minister aware that while the quotas go a long way towards assisting some of the industry's problems, areas of grave concern still remain? Can the Minister indicate when the further announcement foreshadowed in yesterday's statement can be expected? Is sleepwear one of the items under consideration? 
The Senate is now dealing with the Refrigeration Compressors Bounty Bill which was introduced into this chamber on 15 October last. I will have some comments to make on that at a later stage. Firstly, I propose to give a short history of and make a few comments on what has happened to this Bill. The Bill provided that a manufacturers' bounty of $5 each be paid on sealed unit refrigeration compressors of 1.5 kW or less for a period of 2 years from 4 February 1974. The bounty was recommended in the report of the then Tariff Board on 10 October 1973. The report also recommended a tariff reduction from 43.125 per cent to 25 per cent on compressors of this capacity. The reduction has been effective since 4 February 1974. The Tariff Board asserted in its report that the Australian market for compressors of 1.25 kWs or less could not support more than one of the three Australian manufacturers on a reasonably economic base and nominated that that producer be James N. Kirby Pty Ltd. The report went on to say that it would therefore be in the best interests of all concerned if other manufacturers took advantage of that recommended adjustment assistance measure to discontinue their present production. In other words, the Board made it clear that industry rationalisation was necessary and that all 3 manufacturers should receive the bounty. In addition to James Kirby the other compressor manufacturers involved are Email Ltd and Kelvinator Australia Ltd. 
When this Bill was before the House of Representatives the Opposition there endorsed the concept or rationalisation of industry when this would lead to greater vitality and improved competitive power. However, the honourable member for Berowra  (Dr Edwards)  raised the question of whether the Bill would in fact achieve rationalisation. He cited the Tariff Board report which expressed uncertainty that the short term bounty and long term level of tariff assistance of 25 per cent would support profitable production of refrigerator compressors in Australia. Having raised these questions and assuming that the Government had the answer, the Opposition in that place supported the Bill. The Bill was introduced into this chamber on 1 5 October last year. Following the adjournment of the debate I expressed my concern to former  Senator Murphy,  who was in charge of the debate in this place, about certain passages of the Bill. The Opposition's concern was with the words 'sold by the manufacturer and' in clause 5 (b) of the Bill. This concern, when translated into decision, meant that James N. Kirby Pty Ltd would receive the bounty on compressors whilst the other 2 manufacturers would not do so. 
Having expressed this concern to former  Senator Murphy  and he having looked at the matter, he was rather inclined to agree that what I was saying was a fact. I then said that if this was the case and one manufacturer was entitled to the bounty and the other 2 manufacturers were not, I believed that the Government was contravening section 5 1 of the Constitution and I thought he should look at this matter. Former  Senator Murphy  did look at it and later gave me a copy of a Government amendment which is dated 8 November 1974. The proposed amendment of the Government was not suitable to the Opposition. I told former  Senator Murphy  that I would continue with my proposed amendment to clause 5 when the Bill came up for debate. After a further lapse of time the Bill is in the Senate. The Minister for Manufacturing Industry,  Senator James  McClelland, who is in charge of the Bill, has been good enough to discuss the Bill with me and to show me the Government's proposed amendment. The Opposition is quite prepared to support the Government's amendment because it meets the concern that we had with the Bill earlier. 
I do not think there is any need for me to traverse the history of the Bill from its introduction until now, other than to say one or two things. I was quite concerned at the small amount of discussion that had taken place up to the time of the introduction of the Bill in the Senate between the manufacturers and the departmental officers. One manufacturer told me that he was sent a copy of the Bill. The accompanying letter was dated 4 October. The manufacturer received the Bill on 1 1 October and it was introduced in this chamber on 15 October. Up to that time very little discussion had taken place between that firm and officers of the Department. Apparently this problem has been overcome in a satisfactory manner since that time. I pay tribute to former  Senator Murphy  and to  Senator James  McClelland for the assistance they have given in this matter. I believe many members of the Senate, from both Opposition parties and from the Government, have made representations on behalf of the manufacturers. All those honourable senators played their part in bringing about a satisfactory conclusion to the problem that confronted us. When the Bill is debated in the Committee stage and the Government puts forward its amendment I will not proceed with my proposed amendment and will support the Government's amendment. 
The last time the Senate was dealing with this Bill was on 22 October 1974. During the second reading stage the Minister in charge of the Bill, the then  Senator Murphy,  sought an adjournment of the debate saying that a certain matter had arisen since the Bill was introduced into the Senate and that the Minister for Manufacturing Industry,  Mr Kep  Enderby, was looking at the matter. I interjected and asked: 'In relation to what?' The Minister replied: 
In relation to the application of the bounty. The Minister for Manufacturing Industry wants a day or two to consider this matter. 
Since then I had not heard anything further about the Bill until I had a discussion yesterday with the Minister for Manufacturing Industry  (Senator James McClelland)  who is now in charge of the Bill. One matter has arisen since the chamber was last discussing the Bill. The new circumstances that have arisen make it necessary, in the view of the Opposition, for the bounty to be extended to the type of books referred to in proposed new section 3A(d)- that is, law reports. This matter is not new. Law reports, at times over the years, have been covered by the provisions of this legislation. I believe that the section which deals with law reports has a genuine case for a bounty because at present it is being threatened with unexpected and sudden price rises. 
I am informed that the Department of Manufacturing Industry opposed the resumption of the bounty on law reports on the principal ground that there was little risk of Australian law reports being printed overseas. This was despite a recommendation by the Tariff Board, following an inquiry, that the bounty be re-allowed. There was some justification for the stand taken by the Department. One of the permanent law companiesthere may have been others- conceded to the Tariff Board that law reports were unlikely to be printed overseas. But that situation has changed as a result of rapid and steep rises in printing and paper costs in Australia. 1 have before me some details of those costs which I will outline to the Senate. A law book company in Sydney obtained overseas quotations for the type setting and printing of several series of law reports. The outcome is that 3 such series are now being type set, printed and covered in Hong Kong. In one instance the Hong Kong quotation was $A 1,893 compared with a quotation of $3,505 by a Sydney firm. In another case the Hong Kong quotation was $A2,906 and the Sydney firm, which normally prints the particular report, quoted $4,422. I am informed that the quality and performance of the Hong Kong company are as good as those obtainable in Australia. The same law book company has 8 legal text books being printed in Hong Kong and one legal text book being printed in Tokyo. 
I have no doubt that the Government recently has been made fully aware of the difficulties facing this section of the publishing industry. It is obvious that without the bounty an increasing volume of printing work of books covered by proposed new section 3a will be placed overseas. I do not think that that situation should be allowed to continue. The Opposition believes that it should move an amendment to include this group of companies in the bounty. However, I well understand the Government's situation. It has a special committee looking into this matter. The committee has not made a report and I think it would be foolish for the Opposition to try to include this group of companies in the bounty pending a report by this important committee. I should like to hear what the Minister has to say in regard to the comments I have offered. Perhaps the Minister will give an undertaking that following the publication of the Committee's report or information being made public about the report the Government will consider reintroducing the Bill into the chamber so that amendments can be made to include the companies about which I have been talking. In the meantime I feel that the Opposition should pass this Bill on the understanding that it will be brought back at a later date so that it can be amended. 
-The Minister representing the Minister for Defence will recall my question of March last year relating to a proposal to establish a major defence field training base on Yampi Sound in Western Australia. I now ask: What progress has been made in planning the new base? Does the plan include the upgrading of the nearby Derby Airport to accommodate the increased military traffic? If so, what is the estimated cost of the upgrading? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Why has the Government not expressed its disapproval of the outright open invasion by North Vietnamese forces now taking place in Vietnam? Does it still hold to the view of some of its leading members that the fighting in Vietnam is an uprising of oppressed people? 
-BROCKM AN -My question is addressed to the Leader of the Government in his capacity of Minister for Agriculture. I refer to the recent instances of Indonesian fishing boat activity off the north-west coast. Is the Minister satisfied that the agreement on fishing restrictions reached in Jakarta last November is being honoured, or is there still a risk that exotic animal diseases could be brought to Australia by such fishing vessels? Are the recently intensified fisheries patrol activities adequate in the circumstances? 
-Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs believe that in the current wave of fighting in South Vietnam the North Vietnamese have been the aggressors? Can the Minister say why the North Vietnamese flag was raised over Da Nang, when members of the Labor Party have asserted that only Provisional Revolutionary Government forces are involved in South Vietnam? 
-My question is addressed to the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation. Is the Government's decision to enter the insurance business a part implementation of the Labor Party's platform to nationalise the means of production, distribution and exchange? Has the Government consulted the States and the private insurance industry to determine the effects of Federal competition in line with the Treasurer's announcement of 4 April? If so, what was revealed in the consultations? If no discussions have taken place, will the Government undertake a thorough investigation before embarking on a course that could cripple the existing industry? How does the decision align with recent statements by the Prime Minister and the  Deputy  Prime Minister that a strong private sector is essential to Australia's economy? 
I address my question to the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation. Does he recall, in answering a question I addressed to him yesterday, saying that the Government had been consulting with 2 committees set up by the Treasurer, one from the Life Offices Association and the other from the general insurance industry? I ask the Minister: How often have these committees met to discuss with him or the Government their attitude to the proposed Australian Government insurance office? 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation. Is it a fact that life assurance companies which propose to set up in Australia are required to submit to the Life Insurance Commissioner a 10-year plan showing projected costs, forecasts of growth, the method of financing the company and its operations? Although the Government's proposals for the present are restricted to certain areas of insurance, have similar plans and forecasts been  prepared in relation to the proposed scheme? As the Australian people will be required to. finance- the government office, will such plans and forecasts be presented to the Parliament for the information of members before the Parliament is asked to approve the new government office? If no such plans and forecasts have been prepared, will the Government arrange for an inquiry, as proposed by the Australian Insurance Staffs' Federation, to be held to establish whether a government insurance office is needed? 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation. Is the Minister acquainted with details of the damage caused to dwellings and other properties by 2 cyclones that struck parts of the Western Australian coast in recent months? Will the owners be eligible for compensation from the Commonwealth Government? 
-The Minister for Agriculture will recall informing the Senate at question time on 13 February that the Industries Assistance Commission report on the restoration of the superphosphate bounty for Western Australian new land settlers was expected within a month or so. As 2 months have elapsed, can the Minister say whether there has been an unexpected delay? If so, what caused it? When does the Minister now expect a decision? Does he still expect that the IAC report on the superphosphate bounty general reference will be available in May or June? 
I am very pleased to know that the Government will support the amendment calling for a judicial inquiry into particular aspects of sections of the Constitution relating to pecuniary interest. I think the Government has taken a very wise attitude but I regret that the decision was not taken in the first instance. 

 Senator DRAKEBROCKMANGovernment senators have taken the wrong meaning from what I said, and I hope they will look at my remarks later on. Like  Senator Wriedt,  I do not want this debate to develop into a Donnybrook. The Government's motion requires that  Senator Webster's  case be brought before the High Court. In these circumstances, any actions by me or by my Country Party colleagues would, I believe, be misinterpreted, if we attempted to prevent the course proposed in the motion from being taken. Personally, I should have liked to see the case delayed until the judicial inquiry had concluded its examination and reported. I believe the Senate is responsible for the clarification of its own problems. To me,  Senator Webster's  case is no exception. However, the matter has been decided otherwise. 
I wish to bring several points to the attention of the Senate, My colleague  Senator Webster  is charged with a technical breach, not with impropriety.  His  honesty and integrity are not being questioned, and his good name is not at stake. It has never been alleged or implied, before either the Joint Committee on Pecuniary Interests of Members of the Parliament or the 
Senate, that he has deliberately taken advantage of his position in the Senate to gain Government contracts.  Senator Webster  himself has declared in this chamber that he believes he has not violated the Constitution. He has told the Senate that the contracts of J. J. Webster Pty Ltd with the Government were gained in open tender. He has said that the company has the qualifying 25 shareholders. He has pointed out that the Australian Government Gazette announced the letting of those contracts. 1 repeat that there has been no underhanded work and no attempt to gain unfair advantage. There has been no conflict between  Senator Webster's  private interests and his duties as a senator. Obviously, the Government entered into the contracts because it was to its advantage to do so; presumably the Government benefited by the contracts. A question arises from this issue that must be clarified for all members of Parliament. If it is not clarified, none can feel free of challenge, either free within the Senate or outside. The community wants clarification, too, now that a spotlight has been played on this matter. The question is: What actions amount to breaches of sections 44 and 45 of the Constitution? I submit that this question would not have been answered fully merely by determining the particular allegations made against  Senator Webster.  Even now that his case is to be examined by the court in isolation, we are guilty of having forced on him a large share of the burden of the matter. He has been singled out, and that clearly is grossly unfair. 
Already  Senator Webster's  case has been pursued in such a way that some people automatically believe that there has been some impropriety. Distress and harm have been caused. I certainly have no intention of initiating or contributing to a witch hunt in respect of members of Parliament. If any could be the target of similar allegations I believe the  alleged  breaches would be technical only. The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers)  yesterdaydrew out the arguments for a judicial inquiry. I do not propose to go over that ground again but I draw the attention of the Senate to one additional important consideration. Today the Government is becoming increasingly involved in areas which hitherto were the sole domain of the private sector. I do not wish to debate or to initiate debate on the rights or wrongs of that involvement in this context. 
The point is that, as the public sector rapidly expands, the private interests of more and more members of Parliament will be brought into possible conflict with the requirements of the relevant sections of the Constitution. Of course doubts exist as to whether the Constitution is being breached by a variety of present agreements between senators and members and the Crown. Of course clarification is necessary and the way to gain clarification is through an inquiry as required by the amendment. I would expect all honourable senators to support the amendment. 
I desire to inform the Senate that the parliamentary party of which I am Leader in the Senate is now to be known as the National Country Party of Australia. 
-I present the following petition from 52 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Senators in Parliament assembled: 
The humble petition of undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that the establishment of an Australian Government Insurance Office will: 
Cause the loss of jobs and future prospects of employees and agents of the private insurance industry throughout Australia. 
Compete unfairly with private insurers. 
3 ) Require large taxation subsidies for a lengthy period. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate rejects completely the Australian Government Insurance Office Bill 1975. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I direct my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Is it a fact that individual Ministers and the Government itself have repeatedly told the nation that excessive wage rises are a major cause of Australia's inflation and unemployment? Has the Prime Minister many times publicly called for wage restraint? Why then has the Government decided not to use its influence in the metal workers' case to ensure the success of the Arbitration Commission's carefully and responsibly prepared wage indexation plan? Are the people of Australia entitled to believe that the Government opposes excessive wage increases but will not be seen to be involved in achieving restraint? 

 - Mr President, under standing order 408 I seek the indulgence of the Senate to make a personal explanation. I believe that my Party- the National Country Party of Australia- and I have been misrepresented during question time. 
-My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. In view of the tabling of correspondence between the  President  of the Senate and the High Court relating to  Senator Webster  and the actions already initiated by the Court, will the Leader of the Government inform the Senate of what action has been taken to set up the Judicial Committee of Inquiry as required by the Opposition 's amendment passed on 22 April? 
The Opposition hopes that this Bill will have a speedy passage through the Senate. Over 4 months have elapsed since cyclone Tracy razed Darwin. Although that is not a long period of time in terms of the tremendous amount of work that has been involved in gathering information necessary to bring forward a compensation Bill- at this stage might I commend the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation  (Senator Wheeldon)  and his Department on the work that they have done- it is a very long time if you have lost your home and your personal possessions and are waiting to go ahead with plans to start again. Therefore the Opposition supports the objectives of the Bill. Compensation obviously had to be granted by the Commonwealth to help the people of Darwin get back on their feet. I would hope that it is an obligation that no Australian would fail to recognise and support. 
The $58m to be made available as compensation has been appropriated already and this Darwin Cyclone Damage Compensation Bill merely provides the legislative authority for the distribution of that money. But I do not believe that this is being done in a satisfactory manner. In effect there is only one clause in the Bill which is operative and which gives the Minister authority to make payments. In that sense it is another of the Government's Bills under which the expenditure of public moneys is open to patronage by a Minister. The Minister for Repatriation and Compensation spelled out in his second reading speech the criteria for compensation but that does not appear in the Bill. Therefore in the Committee stage I propose to move to include new clauses designed to correct this omission. 
The Opposition argues that the criteria is part and parcel of the Bill and cannot be excluded. Without it the Bill is a loose piece of legislation involving large sums of public money. I know that the Minister has put forward reasons why the Bill lacks the essential detail and I am sure that he will advance them again in this debate. He does not wish to see the Bill delayed; that is his principal reason. While I do not want to see any unnecessary delay to the Bill, I do not subscribe to the argument put forward by the Minister. The residents of the Northern Territory have fought strongly and persistently for an increased rate of political development in the Territory through the transfer of executive or ministerial powers to the new Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. I believe that what the Minister is arguing is a reversal of everthing for which they have been fighting. The new clauses which the Opposition proposes simply set out the criteria that the Minister himself has fixed. They also add an appeal provision. Clearly a person should have a right of appeal in the event of rejection of his application for compensation or in the event of his dissatisfaction with the amount of compensation he receives. 
I would like to raise one further point that is causing me some concern. I do not know how valid it is, but perhaps the Minister has already had a look at the situation and can give me some information on it. It relates to those cases in which the insurance policy holder is underinsured and qualifies under the provisions of this legislation for government compensation. I expect that there would be many instances of people being under-insured because of the fact that property values are inflated. Has the Government considered whether it could be interpreted as a violation of any dual payment terms in an insurance policy if a person receives government compensation? I do not know whether something of that nature may be written in very small print into some insurance policies. I would just ask the Government to make sure that when compensation is paid the money goes to the people to whom it is directed. 
We do not have any quarrel with the Bill but we would like to see the criteria which the Minister so clearly spells out in his second reading speech written into the Bill itself. I have indicated that at the Committee stage I will move those amendments which I have foreshadowed. We support the Bill. 
The clause of this Bill to which I wish to refer is clause 4, which is really the operative clause. It states: 
The Minister may authorise the payment by Australia, in accordance with directions given by him, of compensation in respect of loss of, or damage to, property arising out of the cyclone. 
In the remarks I made in the debate on the motion for the second reading of the Bill I said that under that clause the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation has the full patronage of the public funds that have been made available- in other words, the $5 8m. I have circulated an amendment to clause 4.I move: 
After clause 4, insert the following new clauses: 4a. Compensation shall be payable only to persons who- 
have suffered loss or damage to property as a result of the cyclone; 
make application in writing for compensation, and 
give proof of possession, entitlement and loss or damage suffered. 4b.  (  1 ) Compensation shall be assessed on the basis of the market value of the property as at 24 December 1 974. 
Subject to the succeeding sub-sections, compensation in respect of any property (whether insured or not) shall be one-half of so much of the loss or damage as is not covered by insurance. 
The maximum amount of compensation in respect of loss of, or damage to, a private dwelling (including a boat or caravan used as a primary private dwelling) or premises on a property used for primary production is $25,000. 
Compensation is not payable in respect of a private aircraft or in respect of a boat, other than a boat used as a primary dwelling. 
Compensation in respect of personal possessions, including motor vehicles, caravans not used as primary dwellings, furniture and fittings, shall be determined on the basis of the possessions of members of a household and shall be subject to a maximum amount of $5,000 in respect of a household. 
The maximum amount of compensation in respect of the business premises of a person is $25,000. 
The maximum amount of compensation in respect of business plant, equipment and stock of a person (including crops and livestock in a business of primary production) is $25,000. 4c A person who is dissatisfied with the decision of the Minister or of a person authorized by the Minister in respect of a claim for compensation under this Act made by the person may appeal to the Supreme Court of the Northern Territory, which shall review the decision and either confirm, reverse or vary it. ' 
The only portion of that amendment which is new is paragraph 4C which gives a right of appeal to a person. The rest of the proposed amendment is based on the criteria that are already contained in the Minister's second reading speech. 
The Minister has said that if the Opposition pushes this amendment and it is carried then it will delay the Bill. I want to say something about that. The Bill will be delayed only if the Government does not accept the proposed amendment. If the amendment is carried then the amendment, together with the Bill, will be forwarded to the House of Representatives, which will study the Bill. The Government could change its mind and accept the Bill and it could go through the House of Representatives very early next week, if that priority is given to it. Very shortly after that the Minister would be able to operate under the Bill. That takes care of that delay. It is open to the Government to consider what the Senate does and reassess its position or toss the amendments out. As far as delay in payment of people 's claims is concerned, I do not see that there will be any delay because I take it that people have applied already or will apply very shortly. Officers of the Department will study the claims and assess them and then forward cheques to those people. It is only when the claim is returned with a cheque that people will realise that the Government's assessment of their claim has not been as generous as they thought it should be. 
I do not have the legal training that the Minister has, but I do not believe that the reasons he has given in relation to proof are ones that I would necessarily accept. I should like my colleagues who have had legal training to deal with that portion of the amendment. I have been advised that possession' has a different interpretation to the one the Government is putting on it. In his explanation the Minister admitted that there will be claims where the value of the items lost in the cyclone will be exaggerated. What is the Minister going to do? The claim that a person puts on a refrigerator, which is one item the Minister mentioned, will be accepted. But what is going to be the situation when the person down the road hears that the Government paid out $250 or $300 on his neighbour's refrigerator and he has made a claim for $ 100 for his refrigerator which he believes was as good as his neighbour's? This could be carried through to other items involved in the claim, and surely there should be some body to whom these people can appeal. 
I believe that people in general will assess their claims as nearly as they can to the estimated value of the particular items as at 24 December. I do not believe that there will be the number of claims coming forward that the Minister believes there will be. He admitted that in the case of repatriation his own Department had an appeals tribunal to assess claims where a person does not agree with the Department's assessment of his claim. I can see no reason at all why the Minister, having set out in his second reading speech the criteria for the claims, cannot accept an amendment when the Opposition seeks to write the same criteria into the Bill. The only difference in the Opposition's amendment is that it states that people should have the right of appeal. I conclude my remarks by saying that I believe the Opposition has every right to move these amendments and to expect the Government to accept them. 
-I address my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I refer to today's reversal of the last week's decision to reduce the wool reserve price from 250c to 200c a kilogram. Will the Minister make a firm, unequivocal statement reassuring the wool and allied industries that the Government supports and gives its financial backing to the 250c a kilogram clean base? Will he give this assurance immediately as a means of repairing some of the damage caused by the Government's incredible decision-making performance of the past few days. 
I address my question to the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation or the Minister representing the Minister for Housing and Construction, whichever is appropriate. Is the Minister aware that a small number of totally and permanently incapacitated repatriation pensioners are ineligible for defence service home loans because they did not serve in a theatre of war? Will the Minister examine this situation with a view to having what appears to be an anomaly corrected? 
-Brockman asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) How many hours were flown by VIP aircraft in the financial years 1971-72, 1972-73, 1973-74 and in the first 9 months of the current year. 
What is the present per-hour cost of flying each type of aircraft in the VIP fleet. 
-Can the Minister for Defence explain why the flying hour costs of operating VIP aircraft, based on figures which he supplied to me yesterday in reply to a question on notice, have increased only marginally since 1972? Is he aware that the per hour cost of flying a BAC 1 1 1 has gone up by only $25, a HS748 by $21 and a Mystere by $12? Has the VIP fleet in some way been insulated against the spiralling inflation which has affected every other section of the community? As rations, airport handling charges and crew pay are not included in flying hour costs, can the Minister explain the composition of cost elements used in assessing VIP flying hour costs? 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Manufacturing Industry. Are small businesses at a disadvantage compared with the larger companies in obtaining government help to survive the present crisis brought about by record inflation, record high interest rates, and across-the-board tariff cuts? What percentage of the Australian work force is employed by small businesses? It is a fact that many of these workers are in danger of losing their jobs unless there is a sudden and dramatic improvement in the economy? Does the Government have a specific plan to prevent further closures and job losses? 
-My question is addressed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate in his capacity as the representative in this chamber of the Prime Minister. I ask: Is it a fact that in 1 972 the Prime Minister promised that the Labor Government would ensure the economic viability of primary industry with emphasis on financial stability, security and confidence in the future? As 3 years have passed without that goal being attained, has the promise been ignored or forgotten or is the Government preparing to give primary industry financial stability, security and confidence in the next Budget year? 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation. Is his Department continuing to appoint staff to administer the Government's proposed national compensation scheme? What is the present staff total in this area? Does the Government plan to appoint full time members to the board of the proposed Australian Government Insurance Corporation, despite deferral of the Bill until the Budget session? 
-1 ask the 
Minister representing the Attorney-General whether the Government has appointed the judges who will comprise the judicial committee to inquire into breaches of constitutional qualifications by members of Parliament. Is the Government experiencing any difficulty obtaining the 3 judges? If so, will renewed efforts be made so that the inquiry, set up by decision of the Senate on 22 April, can begin as soon as possible? 
-This Bill arises from the Government's decision in 1973 to adopt the antidumping code drawn up under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. The decision to adopt the code followed a review of the existing anti-dumping legislation by an interdepartmental committee. That legislation has been shown to be at variance in some instances with the requirements of the GATT code. This Bill is aimed at rectifying that situation. Having studied this, it seems to be the proper course to take providing that the new legislation does not prevent the Government's taking anti-dumping action which would avoid harm to Australian industry. The interdepartmental committee's report pointed out that its recommended changes could be effected without restricting anti-dumping action. It appears that the Bill sets out to achieve that purpose. I certainly hope that there will be no penalty on industry, either as a result of the legislation itself or as a result of the administrative interpretation. I would like the Minister for Police and Customs  (Senator Cavanagh),  who is in charge of the Bill, to assure me that the administrative intent will be appropriate to the legislation. 
The Bill empowers the Minister to take antidumping action without reference to the Industries Assistance Commission. This represents a significant change in the existing system. I believe that it is a desirable change which should result in prompt action when action is necessary. I feel quite sure that industry will welcome the change, and because of that the Opposition has no problem with that Bill. The Customs Bill 1 975 restricts from 3 years to 3 months the time in which Customs may hold cash securities taken for anti-dumping protection. It merely brings the Act into line with the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade anti-dumping code, and the Opposition does not oppose that measure. 
The Customs Tariff Validation Bill validates until 31 December the collection of Customs duties in accordance with tariff changes introduced in September last year. The Opposition does not oppose the legislation. It is not my wish to dwell at length on this matter at such a late stage in the session but it should not pass without comment that this Bill emphasises the Government's lack of clear policy for Australian industry. In particular it confirms the validity of the Opposition's objection to the Government's 25 per cent across the board tariff cuts in July 1973. The tariff cut policy was implemented as a means of restructuring industry and to make it more efficient. It did not matter how many industries might go to the wall in the process. It mattered not that industry profit could be squeezed to a degree which brought expansion and investment virtually to a halt, with devastating effects on the economy. It was not a matter of concern that the decision contributed significantly to mass unemployment. 
The Government did not say so at the time but there is no doubt that tariffs were lopped to curry favour with consumers who would benefit by the availability of cheap imported goods. It overlooked the fact that consumers are also employers who provide jobs which bring in the money to buy consumer goods, whether cheap or expensive. The effects of the 25 per cent cut combined with some other notable and regrettable economic decisions are now history. The tariff duties validated by this Bill embrace the recommendations submitted in 19 Industries Assistance Commission and Temporary Assistance Authority reports. One IAC report deals with the motor car industry. So disastrous was the effect of the tariff cut on the car manufacturing industry that within 16 months of its introduction the Government had to mount a massive rescue operation costing more than $300m a year. Surely this is all the evidence the Government needs to convince it that whilst low tariffs might do good in theory they are destructive in practice. The Opposition does not oppose any of the Bills but merely passes those comments. 
-My question is addressed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. In view of the answer that he just gave to the Leader of the Opposition, why did he call for a briefing after off-handedly dismissing the issue at question time yesterday? 

 - Senator McAuliffe read to us a list of loans arranged by the previous Government so, he informed the Senate, that the people of Australia could learn. Contrary to that, I do not think the people of Australia learned anything from listening to the honourable senator because his whole speech was a great tirade directed at  Mr Lynch  and  Senator Greenwood.  Apparently the honourable senator, in going back to 1972 and saying that this Opposition still thought that it was in Government, had forgotten entirely the actions of members of the Australian Labor Party when it was in Opposition. I remember many occasions in those days when the then Opposition took the business out of the hands of the then Government and defeated and amended legislation. Yet, they claimed this was all in the interests of the country at that time. They claimed this had nothing to do with denigrating the Government in those times; far from it. They claimed they were looking at the legislation and trying to improve it. Now when the Opposition, which sometimes has the numbers, tries to amend legislation it is acting despicably, according to  Senator McAuliffe. 
Let me remind honourable senators of a motion that was moved by the previous Opposition in this Senate in which it said that the handling of the Department of Repatriation by the late  Senator McKellar  was far from the way in which the Labor Party would handle it. Acting on very little information, day after day Labor Party senators in this place asked questions of  Senator McKellar.  Finally, they introduced a motion of no confidence in that senator. Was that motion done on facts? Of course it was not. 
It was done purely on hearsay. Then we have the situation in 1 969 when a Swedish film was to be shown to the Sydney Film Festival.  Senator Malcolm  Scott, the Minister at that time, wanted to have an immoral scene taken out of the film. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 
-Before the suspension of the sitting, we were discussing an urgency motion which had been moved earlier in the morning by  Senator Cotton  from the Opposition side of the chamber. He had used the forms of the Senate to seek further information about overseas loan transactions carried out by the Government. This action was necessary because for some time Opposition senators had been seeking information without success. I believe that the motion is perfectly justified despite the criticism of Government senators. Immediately before the luncheon adjournment I was reminding Government senators of some of their actions in the past when they were in Opposition in this chamber. Without any factual information and a great deal of innuendo, they had brought motions of no confidence against two of my colleagues- without success, I might add. But those motions had very little fact about them. 
This morning we elicited only a small amount of information, despite the number of speakers from the Government side. We know that there are Treasury officials stationed overseas who negotiate Government loans in those areas. We know that in the past the Government has dealt with or raised loans overseas through many reputable and well established financial institutions. On this occasion we are sure that Government loans could be handled by these institutions or by the Treasury officials stationed overseas with professional competence. We do not see why the Ministers of the Government should authorise their own nominees or acquaintances to seek out funds abroad- something which I believe has made Australia the laughing stock in the financial circles of the world. 
The Minister for Labor and Immigration,  Senator James  McClelland, when making his contribution to this debate talked about petrodollars and said that there were new areas of money available to the world. I ask  Senator McClelland:  ls he saying that this money is available on black market lines, or is it available and known to the established institutions and to the Treasury officials of this country? I should like him or some of the Government speakers who will come forward, to tell us the reason why the Government should seek out this money from the areas from which it is seeking it. Why not go to those people who have handled loans in the past? 
I was greatly interested in  Senator McClelland  's submission when he tabled a memo dated 23 May 1975 which detailed a private conversation held some 6 months before. I should like to ask the question- and I hope that Government speakers will be able to inform the Senate- why a  Mr Larkin  should write a memo to the Head of the Department of Minerals and Energy about his own permanent head? Is the action of the Secretary of the Treasury in investigating  Mr Khemlani  's background without telling the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  such a crime? I should like to know the answer to that. After all, the Secretary is the head of the Treasury and the matter did involve many thousands of dollars. I ask the question: Who else could do it? Why should  Senator James  McClelland table the memo and then make the statement that the Head of the Treasury had gone behind the Prime Minister's back in investigating this man? This is the reason why this motion was brought before the Senate. 
We have had 3 question time periods- if today is included- in which matters arising out of loan borrowings overseas have been raised by a great number of senators. On every occasion- perhaps there is some reservation about today- the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Wriedt)  has fobbed off the questions. I know, as all honourable senators know, that the Leader of the Government is a man who generally does his homework. Generally he gives a pretty good answer to the questions he is asked, and no matter how many times he is asked a question he gives an answer and explains the situation. He has done that time and time again on questions that have been asked in this Senate relating to wool and meat; yet he has sidestepped the issues that have been raised during every question time this week. Why did he do that? Is it because he has something to hide? Is it because the Government does not want the Senate, and particularly the Opposition, to know what is going on? Or is it because the Government does not want the people of this country to know what is going on? 
Every time a question has been asked on this matter the Leader of the Government has said that he is not compelled to answer because the Opposition has not produced any information. If we abided by that ruling, there would not be any questions asked in this place, particularly from the Government side. Quite often I have seen Government senators handed pieces of paper by Ministers and, knowing nothing about what they are asking about, they get up and ask Dorothy Dix questions. At other times they have asked questions based on headlines in newspapers. Government senators particularly did this when they were in Opposition; they came along and asked questions based purely on the headlines without reading the following letterpress. Information has been provided today by  Senator James  McClelland, but nothing was said by the other Government  speaker, Senator McAuliffe,  about what  Senator McClelland  had said. All  Senator McClelland  did was to pose a great number of questions that he suggested have to be explained in this place. I hope that the next  speaker  for the Government will provide some further information. I believe that the Opposition has done a great service to the people of this country in bringing forward this urgency motion. 
I am only sorry that  Senator Wheeldon  has made his plea this Thursday instead of last Thursday. I am quite sure that a plea for unity would have been very acceptable in the Government last week. I do not rise to make a statement in this place which I might have issued to the media a couple of hours ago. Nor do I rise to say something on the urgency motion which was moved earlier in the day about which I might have had something to say. I am rather intrigued by  Senator Hall  saying that he was not able to get on the list of speakers today because this would be the first occasion of which I have known since he has been in the chamber that he has not been able to get on the list of speakers when he desired to do so. If  Senator Hall  thinks that the Opposition fell down on its motion to debate a matter of urgency today and that we should sit on tomorrow or come back next week I believe that he should get up and move a motion to the effect that the Senate reconvene tomorrow morning or next Tuesday. I notice that he has not done so. 
All I want to do is support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers).  Under the motion moved by the Manager of Government Business in the Senate  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  the Government can recall the Senate before the date on which we are due to meet again, 19 August, but the Opposition can bring back the Senate only if it has the support of 2 senators,  Senator Hall  and  Senator Bunton.  As the Leader of the Opposition said, the amendment that he has moved is not new. It was moved in this place in 1967 by the then Opposition, the present Government, in respect of what I believe was a postal matter, and the then Opposition with the support of the Democratic 
Labor Party had the Senate reconvened and the Senate sat for two or three days. So the Leader of the Opposition has taken the opportunity of moving an amendment to the motion of the Manager of Government Business in the Senate so that the Senate may be recalled should this foreshadowed situation arise. I fully support that amendment. 
-BROCKMAN -I ask the Minister for Social Security: How is it that in times of economic crisis, with austerity drives in government departments, my wife and I received 7 Medibank cards in the 6 weeks' period I was away from Australia? How is it that I have been given 2 Medibank numbers? What assurance can the Minister give the Senate that mine is an isolated case and that gross wastage in staff time and postage is not occurring? 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation. 1 refer to the report in today's  Australian Financial Review,  which gives details of the Government's revised national compensation scheme, and I ask: Can the Minister say whether it is a fair summary of the Government's intentions? If so, can he indicate to the Senate whether the Government has had consultations with the State governments and with the insurance industries about the new proposals? 
The 
Opposition parties do not oppose the Government's proposals in this Bill. Therefore, without further debate, we believe the Bill should be passed. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
-My question which is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister refers to the Treasurer's disclosure on television last night that he leaked Budget details to the  President  of the Australian Labor Party and the Australian Council of Trade Unions,  Mr Hawke,  before the Budget became public. Was the Prime Minister aware of the Treasurer's action and did he approve? If the Prime Minister was not aware, has he reprimanded the Treasurer since the disclosure was made? Finally I ask: Does the Leader of the Government in the Senate himself approve of such leaks being made before the Budget is presented to the Parliament? 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. Did the Minister imply at question time yesterday that the Budget details that were pre-released to the State Premiers were as comprehensive as those given to the  President  of the Australian Labor Party and the Australian Council of Trade Unions,  Mr Hawke?  Does he now have any reason to correct his statement? Has the Minister been advised whether the Prime Minister knew of and approved the Treasurer's decision to brief  Mr Hawke  some five or six hours before the Budget details were announced in the Parliament? 
My question is addressed to the Leader of the Government representing the Treasurer. Does the Treasurer regularly supply figures showing the expended and unexpended percentages of supply money granted by Parliament for the 5 months from July to November? Have the figures been published and if not, why not? Do the figures show that less than half of total supply funds was spent in the first half of the period? 
-My question is addressed to the Minister representing the 
Prime Minister. I refer to the Prime Minister's statement on Friday that the Government probably could govern without a Budget. I refer also to the Treasurer's assertion at the weekend that the Government would have lawful authority, constitutional sanction and parliamentary approval for everything it did. I ask whether the 2 statements are compatible? 
Is the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation aware that some sections of the community are firmly opposed to any proposal, under a national com-, pensation scheme, to replace third party insurance premiums with an additional excise on petrol and dieseline fuel? Does the Minister concede that vehicle users living in isolated areas and those engaged in business involving regular long distance travel would be considerably disadvantaged by such a scheme? Will the Government's proposals include some form of concession to these groups? 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate in his capacity as Minister representing the Prime Minister. Can he say whether the Prime Minister is aware of contradictions in statements by principals in the overseas loans affair made by way of statutory declaration and evidence before the Bar of the Senate? Has the Minister also noted the assertion and denial about secret meetings in the Adelaide bush in June and August attended by a highly placed Government official? As the Prime Minister has already sacked two senior Ministers over the loans affair, is he concerned now to establish where the truth lies? Which course does he intend to follow to find the truth? 
-My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. In view of the Prime Minister's repeated assertions that the Government, without a Budget, would be able to carry on legally, constitutionally and. with Parliament's approval, why has the Government delayed announcing details of the emergency plans? What difficulties has the Government encountered? 
I would like to thank honourable senators very much for electing me  Chairman  of Committees and for the honour they have conferred on me. But I am mindful of the responsibility that goes with the position. I realise that the job holds a lot of responsibilities and I recognise also from past experience in the position of  Chairman  of Committees that one must have the co-operation of all senators. I would hope that I would be able to obtain that because I recognise that if the Senate is to operate efficiently- I think that we would all like it to operate efficiently- a standard must be set and maintained by all. I believe that the person occupying the Chair is the one who should give a lead in this. I will endeavour at all times to give a lead when I am occupying the position of  Chairman  of Committees. I would hope that I could obtain the co-operation of all senators. I look forward to working with you,  Mr President,  in the interests of the Senate and senators. 
Is the Minister representing the Treasurer aware of the considerable doubt and confusion being expressed by machinery dealers and purchasers over the way in which the investment allowance is to be implemented in regard to farm machinery purchased on hire purchase? Can he explain to the Senate how the allowance will operate in regard to purchases of this kind? 
-I direct my question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. The Minister will be aware that primary producers receive the benefit of a taxation averaging system which at present has an upper limit of $16,000. Can the Minister inform the Senate whether any consideration has been given by the Government to extending such a provision to small businessmen? In view of the present economic climate, can it be expected that consideration will be given to increasing the upper limit of $16,000 in keeping with the inflationary rate over past years? 
-My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Has the Minister seen comments by the  chairman  of the Australian Telecommunications Commission that it is hoped that by the year 2000 every home will have a telephone and that the invention of the telephone has brought a new dimension to business and social life in the 20th century? Do such comments apply to the rural areas of Australia? Will country people have to wait until the year 2000 before their applications for telephones are serviced without long waiting periods before installation? When can it be expected that some relief will be given to country applicants who presently are required to pay many hundreds of dollars, and in some cases thousands of dollars, in installation charges? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. Is yet another evaluation team concerned with the replacement of the Mirage aircraft to be sent overseas? As aircraft designs for possible replacement are already well known in the Defence Department, what new activity and information can be expected from such a mission? 
-My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. I ask: Was not the prime objective of the construction of the wool stores at Yennora to improve the efficiency of wool handling and eliminate the manhandling of wool bales? Did the Government not provide a loan of $ 17m to enable the construction of these stores? Does not this modern facility and ones similar to it in other States, together with the technical equipment available for handling bales, justify an increase in bale weights and therefore a resulting saving to the wool grower? Is this not a vital consideration to an industry which has been under a sustained cost pressure for several years? 
I ask the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development in his capacity as Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs: What provision is made to see that adequate film supplies are available for exhibition in cinemas throughout Australia? What steps are taken to restrict the import of'R' films into this country? 
I ask the 
Minister for Education: Is it a fact that with the availability of Government educational grants the traditional role of parents and citizens associations in Australia is changing? Does the Minister consider that such associations have lost a lot of their reason for existence? If this is so, what role does the Government now see these associations playing in the education field? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. Is it a fact that Australian exporters are handicapped by a high level of charges at privately operated container terminals? Can the Minister inform the Senate whether 40-foot containers are charged at double the 20-foot container rate, regardless of the content? Does it make sense that an empty 40-foot container weighing 3 tons should be charged double the rate for a 20-foot full container? How is it that in New York and other major world ports the differential rate is minimal or, at least, reasonable in relation to our figures? Is the differential rate in Sydney as high as $192.50? Can the Minister inform the Senate why this.is so? 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. What consideration has been given to paying the investment allowance on wages to employees as opposed to the investment allowance on the purchase of manufactured items? Is not such a proposal operating with great success in Germany? Would not a deduction for wages in excess of that paid out induce employers to put on more staff and so reduce the drain on the Government by way of unemployment benefits? 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Do people living in areas serviced by a contract mail service have their mail delivered without charge? Is it a fact that people living in city and country areas with a house to house mail delivery up to 5 times a week do not pay for such services? Are people who live in neither of these areas compulsorily required to rent a post office mail box from their nearest post office? Can the Minister explain this anomaly and indicate what steps are being taken to amend the irregularity? 
-My question is addressed to the Minister for Social Security. Is it a fact that the Budget makes provision for $750,000 to be provided through the Department of Social Security for family planning purposes? How is this money to be distributed and to whom will it go? What provisions are made for country people to have easy access to family planning advice? Has any consideraton been given to making mobile clinics available for the dissemination of family planning help to country people? 
I address my question to the Minister for Education in his capacity as Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. Is the Minister aware of any public criticism of the Government's alleged cutback in grants to sporting bodies? Do such grants come under the heading of the culture and recreation vote in the Budget? Do outlays in this sector include leisure time activities, money for swimming pools, community centres, athletic fields, etc, as well as contributions to youth and social organisations? Can the Minister confirm that the Budget vote for cultural and reacreational outlays is the highest in Commonwealth Budget history? 
I ask the 
Minister representing the Treasurer: Do the 1975-76 primary producer incomes qualify under the income equalisation deposit scheme? Is the Minister aware that many farmers and their accountants have delayed completing their taxation returns because they are awaiting details of the way in which the income equalisation deposit scheme will operate? Can the Minister indicate to the Senate what provision has been made to allow farmers to complete their returns and, when the legislation has passed through the Parliament, allow them to have their taxation returns amended to include the income equalisation deposits? 
-My question is addressed to the Minister for Science. Is it a fact that the fly problem is costing the wool and meat industries an estimated $60m a year? Would it be true to say that the fly is building up a high level of immunity to chemicals? As these chemicals have caused human tragedies in the past as well as damage to the environment from time to time, can the Minister inform the Senate what research has been carried out into the genetic extermination or control of the blowfly? Are adequate funds available to the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation to carry out this work? When can it be expected that the CSIRO might carry out field work on such a project in Western Australia? 
My question is addressed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I ask: Has the Minister noted that the Opposition spokesman on matters within the portfolio of the Attorney-General has said that the Opposition will reject the proposal to construct the quarantine station on the Cocos (Keeling) Islands unless adult wages are paid? As the Government decision to go ahead with this project comes after nearly 3 years of intensive investigation of many technical problems by a number of Government departments, does the Labor Party's decision now mean that this project which is most important to the Australian cattle industry will again be in jeopardy? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. I ask: Have the Federal and State governments agreed to participate in the distribution of a medal to commemorate the Silver Jubilee of  Her  Majesty the Queen? Has it been agreed that distribution should be to members of the armed forces and to other nominated persons? Does this mean that all servicemen and servicewomen, all local government councillors, members of Parliament and senior public servants will automatically receive the medal? What consideration has been given to distributing a medal to the many ordinary people who, although their work may not have been acknowledged as spectacular, have rendered a lifetime of service to the community? 
-My question is addressed to the Minister for Administrative Services. I ask: Did a committee of inquiry into public libraries in Australia present a report to the Government in April of this year? Has the Government declared the action it will take on the report and, if not, when can such an announcement be expected? 
I present the following petition from 283 citizens of Australia: 
To the honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: The humble petition of the undersigned concerned citizens respectfully showeth: 
Australia's extensive road system is a national asset wasting because of inadequate Federal and State funding. 
Commonwealth Government funding of roads has fallen over the last six years from 2.9 per cent of all Commonwealth outlays to 2.3 per cent. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled, should ensure: 
That the Commonwealth Government's long-term policy should be to provide SO per cent of all funding for Australia s roads. 
That at a minimum the Commonwealth Government adopts the recommendations by the Australian Council of Local Government Associations for the allocation of $5,903 million of Commonwealth, State and Local Government funds to roads over the five years ending 1980-81, of which the Commonwealth share would be 41 per cent as recommended by the Bureau of Roads. 
Petition received. 
-I address a question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. In view of the Queensland Government's decision to abolish death duties and the intention of the Western Australian Government to provide major relief over the next 3 years, has the Government any proposal to alter its method of assessment of Federal death duties so as to avoid a greater assessment of Federal duties as a result of the decrease in State collections? 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Is it Government policy to ensure that the dual system of national and commercial television shall be maintained and be available to ali citizens? Is he aware of representations from and concern felt by many residents in the great southern and eastern wheat belts of Western Australia over the present poor television reception in these areas? Has his attention been drawn to the many petitions from residents of these areas that have been presented to the Senate? As the television medium reaches audiences of such size, with such influence on their opinions and attitudes as well as significantly affecting their way of life, how long can the Government remain indifferent to the pleas of these people for a standard of reception now enjoyed by a large majority of people in Australia? 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Science. 
-No, it is not a Dorothy Dix. The Minister for Science will recall that recently I drew to his attention the concern about tropical cyclones held by the Carnarvon Shire Council. Is it a fact that a team of American scientists now in Australia conducting research into the reduction of the destructive capacity of cyclones will visit the Carnarvon district? In view of the extreme importance of this scientific work in Australia, particularly in the north-west and north, is the Department of Science co-operating in the present experiments? If results of the current project are promising, will the Minister urgently seek extension of the work in Australia? 
I ask the 
Minister for Science whether the Western Australian Minister for Agriculture made representations for Commonwealth assistance into research on ryegrass toxicity? The Minister will be aware that over the last 6 years the number of properties in Western Australia hit by this ryegrass killer has increased tenfold. Can the Minister inform the Senate what offers of assistance have been made in response to the Western Australia request? 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. He will recall Australian Labor Party defence spokesmen in 1972 referring to the then Government's announcement of the acceptance of the 24 F 1 1 1 aircraft as compounding a calamitous affair. Did not such mindless criticism ignore the simple fact that if our Air Force were not equipped with the best it might not be able to carry out its missions? Is the Minister aware that these aircraft have now completed nearly 4 years of service under Australian conditions with very good results? Is he aware that the Royal Australian Air Force confidently expects the FI 1 1 aircraft to do all that it is called upon to do over the next 20 years? Does not the performance of these aircraft substantiate the decision taken in 1 963 and indicate that the F 1 1 1 project is the bargain of the century rather than the calamitous affair as described by the Labor Party? 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. He will be aware of an answer given by the Minister for Post and Telecommunications yesterday concerning telephone facilities in country areas. While it is true that a majority of people may have a most adequate telephone service and that the Australian Telecommunications Commission is effectively reducing the number of manual type connections, could the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications inform the Senate what is being done to assist those applicants at present without a service who are living well beyond the 12-kilometre radius of an exchange and who, under no stretch of the imagination, could be classified as living in isolated areas? 
I bring up the report of the Senate Standing Committee of Privileges on appropriate means of ensuring the security of Parliament House. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
-by leave-I move: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
In presenting this brief report to the Senate, I remind honourable senators that the reference was given to the Committee by the Senate on 4 April, following debate upon statements made by the  President  relating to security at Parliament House. The Committee makes its report in the knowledge that there is a necessity for those in authority to provide the maximum practicable security for Parliament House and its occupants. It is difficult to decide the appropriate level of protection and the Committee has operated on the understanding that such decisions are the ultimate responsibility of the Presiding Officers, assisted by such advice as they choose to obtain. They have the responsibility to develop a protective system that is practicable, acceptable and effective. 
The Committee did not believe that it was in a position to spell out in detail what system should be developed. However, there are matters to which the Committee believes the Senate's attention should be drawn. These are referred to in the report. I recommend the report to the Senate for consideration. 
I thank all those who have spoken. I also thank all those who have not spoken but who, by their support, have shown that they agree with the remarks that have been made. I well recall some of the advice that was given to me when I first came into the Senate. A lot of it went straight out the other ear but there was some advice that I accepted. The Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Withers)  mentioned one or two of those pieces of advice tonight. One Labor senator who had been a Minister in the Chifley Government said to me when I first came into the Senate: 'I will give you some advice; do not make all your friends on one side of the House. ' I think that was very good advice. Another Labor senator said to me, as Reg Withers said tonight of Reg Wright, that in this place one gives one's best but outside the attitude is: 'Come and have a drink and let us talk things over. ' I think that is very good advice. 

 Mr President, I thank you for your remarks. I have served with four Presidents of the Senate during my time here. When  Sir Alistair  McMullin was  President,  I served as  Chairman  of Committees and  Deputy President.  When  Sir 
Magnus Cormack was the  President  I served as a Minister. Justin O 'Byrne and I have had a long experience, dating back to when he was on his honeymoon. I claim that I assisted him. I served as the leader of a party in Opposition under the presidency of Justice O 'Byrne. I should like to make some remarks about each and every one of those people, but time does not permit me to do so. There have been two Clerks of the Senate during my term here. I should like to say a great deal about what has happened at the table between the Clerks and myself over the years that I have been here, but time does not permit me to do so. 
I have served under nine Leaders of the Government in the Senate, two of whom were on the Opposition side. Two of them are here tonight. I could tell many tales about what has happened involving us in those years. I would also like to say a great deal about the officers of the Senate, who have been of great assistance to me, as they have been to other honourable senators throughout the years. I cannot speak too highly of the staff of the Senate for their friendship and, as  Senator Wood  said, their assistance over the years; nor can I speak too highly about the Joint House Department and the  Hansard  staff. Perhaps one could tell many tales about what went on in the early days there. But, again, time does not permit me to do so. I should like also to spend some time talking about the staff in the refreshment rooms in Parliament House and about the attendants who put in long hours serving the Parliament. I should like to pay tribute to those people whom we do not see around Parliament House but who we know are in the background working to make this chamber operate. I think they are deserving of a great deal of thanks from each and every one of us. 
I want to pay a special tribute to the members of my party who have given me great assistance and great loyalty over many trying periods during the time that I have been a member of this Parliament. There have been many occasions when senators of my party would dearly have loved to have crossed the floor and voted with the Opposition, but they stuck to me loyally when I had the responsibility of leading the party. I thank them for that. I have made many friends in this Parliament on both sides of the chamber. I thank each and everyone of them for their friendship. I am looking now at Reg Bishop, who sometimes used to see me as I walked down the corridor and I would say to him: ' How about asking me a question today on the FI 1 ls?'. He was not above asking the same thing of me when we were in opposition. 
As Reg Wright said, there have been many changes in the years that we have been in the Senate. All 1 can say is that I trust that the Senate will continue to be a very effective chamber, upholding the very best traditions of the institution of parliament. 
