I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation whether crew members of Royal Australian Air Force Hercules aircraft who fly from Australia to Vietnam with supplies and equipment are entitled to full repatriation benefits, war service homes loans, rehabilitation facilities and war service land settlement loans if they are injured or wounded on these flights? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Civil Aviation. As the economy air fare from Adelaide to Melbourne is $21.90 and that from Melbourne to Sydney is $23.50, making a total of $45.40, and the fare for the direct flight from Adelaide to Sydney is also $45.40, why do not the people of South Australia get the benefit of the reduced costs of the direct flight? lt is obviously cheaper to operate on the shorter and more direct route. The first class fare on the direct route from Adelaide to Sydney is $2.90 cheaper than that payable to travel via Melbourne, but 1 suggest that both the economy and first class fares for the direct flight from Adelaide to Sydney should be substantially cheaper than they are at present. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Postmaster-General. I ask: Is the Minister aware that many pensioners find difficulty in making necessary telephone calls, some of them of an urgent nature, because of their inability to use public telephones because of their locations? Will the Minister consult with the Postmaster-General for the purpose of giving consideration to removing the existing direct installation charge for new telephones applied for by pensioners? 
My question is  addressed to the Minister for Civil Aviation. In view of the fact that floor space has been increased by the extensive alterations to the Adelaide Airport, and overcrowding has been eliminated, will the Minister use his best endeavours to see that visitors to that airport will not be charged a fee to watch from the observation deck the arrival and departure of aircraft, as is proposed for the Tullamarine Airport and the Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport? 
Would the Minister representing the Treasurer consult with the Treasurer for the purpose of considering as a tax deductible item the high cost of transport for people living on Eyre Peninsula and in other remote areas because of the vast distances they have to travel for specialist medical treatment? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. I preface the question by referring to the serious position existing in the fruit canning industry in Australia and in particular in South Australia in the fruit growing areas of the Upper Murray and the Adelaide Hills. Both the South Australian Government and the co-operative canneries in South Australia have made an urgent request to the Commonwealth Government for immediate assistance to counter the critical situation which it is believed is due to the loss of liquidity caused by realisation losses due to the devaluation of sterling in 1967 and the collapse of the export levy  scheme. In view of the critical position and the value of the canned fruit industry to South Australia will the Minister use all his good offices to induce the Government to provide immediate assistance? 
My question is  directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Is it a fact that dried vine fruit growers recently rejected the Commonwealth Government's offer of a stabilisation plan for the industry? Was the referendum proposal defeated because growers had not supported the plan as vital issues concerning the previous plan had not been resolved? Is it a fact that growers were promised a cost of production figure which was to be arrived at from the proceeds of their dried vine fruits, but that when final payments were made to growers, profits from other activities were apparently included in thefinal returns? Is it also a fact that growers have been deprived of the benefits of a stabilisation scheme and. as a result, have lost millions of dollars? Will the Government examine and police all marketing expenses and reexamine the whole situation so that stability can be established in this very vital industry? 
At the outset 1 should like to say that the Australian Labor Party has never lost sight of what has been done for exservicemen through loans for war service homes. However, 1 feel that the Minister for Housing  (Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin)  was a little unfair when she compared the expenditure for this purpose by this Government since 1949 with the amount that was spent by the Labor Government when it was in office. I think the Minister has lost sight of the fact that the Labor Party won a war from which the Liberal Party of Australia and the Austraiian Country Party ran away. 
But the Labor Party made it possible for the servicemen to do their job. The Liberal Party and the Country Party ran away from their responsibilities. 
I offer my apologies to you,  Mr President.  The Opposition has moved the motion in the terms it has used because it believes that either the Government has not given full consideration to, or the Minister for Housing  (Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin)  has been wrongly advised on, the situation in relation to war service homes loans. It is true that the appropriation for war service homes loans has been increased in the last 2 Budgets. In the 1968-69 Budget it was increased by $4.5m from $45.5m to $50m. But it should be remembered that in that year the maximum amount of the loan to each ex-serviceman was increased from $7,000 to $8,000. I think it was said in the second reading speech of the Minister for Housing at that time that the increased allocation was due to this factor and that the extra $4. 5m would be taken up by the increase in the maximum loan available. In the 1969-70 Budget the appropriation was again increased by another $5m to $55m. But in 1965-66 the appropriation was $70m. Therefore, although the appropriation for loans for war service homes has been increased by $9.5m in the last 2 Budgets it is still $15m below the 1965-66 figure. 
It is SI 5m below the 1 965-66 figure. It is possible that the second increase in the appropriation was due to an increase in the number of applications made. However, I believe that the Government adopted a hit and miss approach in regard to determining the amount of the appropriation. I do not think that a true investigation was carried out or research conducted by the Department of Housing or the Government to determine exactly the possibility of an increase in the number of applications. For example, the appropriation in 1966-67 was $12m less than that in 1965-66. It was said that that was due to the fact that the backlog in applications from Second World War ex-servicemen had been overcome and it was not necessary to have an appropriation of as much as $70m. In 1967-68 the appropriation was further reduced to $45.5m from $58m. It was again stated that the reduction was due to the fact that not as many applications were being received. 
Had a proper investigation been made or proper research been conducted into the number of applications which could be received from the conscripts returning from Vietnam who were eligible for a war service homes loan or from the Regular Army personnel who had served their time, I feel that the present position would not have arisen. If a proper investigation had been conducted, I think the appropriation in the 1969-70 Budget would have been far in excess of $55m. I believe the Government has been irresponsible and complacent. It has been in office far too long. The Government's irresponsibility and complacency apply not only to war service homes loans but also to many other areas. If you would bear with me,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  I would like to say that one has only to look at the position in which primary industry finds itself today to appreciate my argument. It is only because of the irresponsibility of this Government that the primary producers are in their present position. In saying that the Government has been irresponsible I mean that it has been irresponsible only in recent years insofar as war service homes loans are concerned. As I said earlier, the Labor Party is fully aware of the benefits which ex-servicemen have received under the war service homes loans scheme. Although the Labor Party would have preferred the maximum amount of the loan to be higher, I feel that many exservicemen - and I am one - have had an opportunity to take advantage of this scheme. I know that it helped me considerably when I was buying a home to be able to obtain a loan from the War Service Homes Division. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  said in the other place that he was aware of the fact that the funds allotted for this financial year had been spent. He said, in reply to a question asked of him in the other place by the honourable member for Bennelong  (Sir John Cramer): 
I am aware that the funds available for war service homes during this financial year have now been spent. 
It appears to me that somebody is badly mistaken. The Minister for Housing said in this chamber that there was no hold-up in the granting of loans because of a lack of funds, but the Prime Minister said in another place that the allocation for this financial year had been spent. I do not think that the present situation would have arisen if the Minister for Housing had answered the question which the Opposition directed at her, which was whether the Minister would approach the Treasury for the purpose of having a special appropriation of funds made available immediately to help to overcome the lag in war service homes loans. 
One had only to look at the number of conscripts returning from Vietnam to appreciate that there was a possibility of an increase in the number of applications for loans. The report of the War Service Homes Division for the 1967-68 financial year states that the application rate remained relatively steady and a total of 9,754 applications were received during the year compared with 10,302 in 1966-67. As 1 pointed out earlier, the appropriation was further reduced to $45. 5m in that year. If one looks at the report of the War Service Homes Division for the 1968-69 financial year one will see that the number of applications received increased from 9,754 to 1 0,824. lt states also that the rate of expenditure increased as well by $4m to $50,190,522. lt could be seen from these reports that there was a strong possibility of more and more applications being made for war service homes loans, but the Government did nothing about making an investigation or conducting research into the possible number of loans that would be sought. 1 feel the Government has let the ex-servicemen down and 1 feel it is showing a little bit of differentiation in this field because it has stated, and the Minister herself has said, that for those people erecting new homes there was no waiting list whatsoever, while for ex-servicemen or servicemen purchasing homes already erected there would be a waiting period of 6 to 8 weeks. Why is there any difference between the treatment of a person who is erecting a home and of a person who is purchasing a home already erected? All ex-servicemen are entitled to the same consideration, whether they are buying or erecting a home. 
My mind goes back some years to a time when people who were erecting homes were given preference in respect of bank loans over those who were buying homes already erected. This was because of the situation existing in the building industry at that time. I am only making a comparison here,  Mr Acting Deputy  President; I do not feel 1 am digressing from the subject of the urgency motion when I mention this. I feel that the Government should have done the right thing and given proper consideration to the possibility of increases in applications. I hope the Government will carry out some research into this situation so that it will not continue to exist and so that all ex-servicemen, whether they be erecting a new home or buying an established home will be given the same privileges. If proper research is conducted I feel this whole difficult situation will be overcome. 1 again ask the question that hits been asked by my colleagues and that is whether the Minister will approach the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  to see whether any special appropriation money can be made available immediately to alleviate this situation. 
This debate concerns a resolution transmitted from the House of Representatives for the setting up of a Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and the agreement of the Senate to certain clauses. Later I will move amendments to the motion. Until 3 years ago the Australian Labor Party would not nominate members to sit on this Committee because the terms of reference of the Committee were not acceptable to it. Therefore, it decided not to take part in any deliberations of this Committee. The Australian Labor Party was severely criticised from time to time because it would not participate in the activities of this Committee and many Government supporters continually said that the Australian Labor Party was not interested in foreign affairs and had in its platformno policy regarding foreign affairs. But I feel that this was unjust and unfair criticism because the Australian Labor Party has always been and always will be interested in foreign affairs and how they affect the Australian continent. Three years ago the then Minister for External Affairs in consultation with the then Leader of the Opposition proposed certain changes in the structure of the Joint Committee and although they were not all that the Australian Labor Party desired they were accepted. 
It was at that time that we decided to take part in the activities of this Committee for the first time. Although the changes were not all that we desired they did help to alleviate some of the fears that we held as to how any agreements made by members of the Australian Labor Party on the Committee could cut across the policy of the Labor Party. I was one of those who were selected to sit on this Committee, together with other members of my Party in the Senate and in another place, and J feel that the Committee did give us some information and some knowledge of what was going on as far as foreign affairs were concerned. But meetings of the Committee were conducted under an oath of secrecy and although we had this information we could not impart it to our colleagues and to my knowledge never at any time was any information that we received while sitting on this Committee brought back to our caucus or imparted to any of our colleagues. The Australian Labor Party believed that if there was some knowledge to be obtained from participation in the activities of this Committee at least same of it should be brought back and imparted to the other members of the Party. Therefore we believe that the motion should be amended. I move: 
At the end of paragraph  (1),  add - subject to the following modifications: 
that at the end of paragraph  (1)  the following words be added - 'and to report to the Parliament on such matters as are referred to it by either House of the Parliament'; 
This would make paragraph (1) read: 
That a Joint Committee be appointed to consider foreign affairs generally and to report to the Minister for External Affairs upon such matters as are referred to it by the Minister and to report to the Parliament on such matters as are referred to it by either House of the Parliament. 
I do not think that the adoption of this amendment would in any way alter the structure of the Committee, nor would it mean that the Committee would take over the role of policy making in foreign affairs. I believe that if the proposed amendment is agreed to the status of the Committee will be upgraded and it will be assisted in its discussions and forming of recommendations. Paragraph (1)(b) proposes an amendment to paragraph 8 which, as it stands at present, reads: 
That the committee and its sub-committee shall sit in camera and their proceedings shall be secret unless the Minister at the request of the comittee otherwise directs. 
On behalf of the Opposition I move the following amendment: 
That paragraph (8) be left out with a view to inserting the following paragraph in place thereof: 
That the committee and its subcommittees shall sit in public unless the committee resolves that its own proceedings or a sub-committee's proceedings shall be secret, whereupon they shall sit in camera.' 
I and my colleagues believe that if the amendment is carried the ability of the Committee to conduct secret hearings when necessary will not be interfered with. The proposed amendment clearly states that the Committee may resolve to conduct in secret its own proceedings or those of a subcommittee. I have served as a member of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs, together with other members of my Party. A great deal of information has been conveyed to us and we have learned a lot. Although many criticisms have been levelled at the attitude of the ALP to the Committee, 1 fell that Labor members of the Committee have contributed a great deal towards its successful operations, equally with members of the Liberal Party and Country Party serving on the Committee. I believe that my colleagues have acquitted themselves well as members of the Committee. 
When the Foreign Affairs Committee was first formed as a joint parliamentary committee,  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack was its  Chairman  and  Mr Kim  Beazley. the honourable member for Fremantle, was its Vice-Chairman. Many people gave evidence to the Committee and it was proposed that it should extend its activities. Honourable senators will remember that the report of the sub-committee which inquired into the situation in the Middle East, under the chairmanship of  Mr Kim  Beazley, was presented to the Senate. It was a very good report. Another sub-committee was set up to consider Australia's role in the Pacific, under the chairmanship of the late  Senator Laught.  He did a remarkable job in that position. Because of his untimely death last year I had the privilege of being elected  Chairman  in his place. As the general election intervened in 1969 the Committee, not having completed its deliberations, put before the Foreign Affairs Committee an interim report. When the Foreign Affairs Committee is reconstituted I believe that that sub-committee will be given an opportunity to complete its deliberations. In that event I am sure that it will present a report that will be of great benefit to the Parliament. I now move the second proposed amendment, which is as follows: 
At the end of paragraph (3) add- 'with a request for the concurrence of that House in the Senate's modifications of the Resolution transmitted to the Senate by the House'. 
At present paragraph (3) reads as follows: 
That every appointment of a member of the committee be forthwith notified in writing to the  President  of the Senate and the  Speaker  of the House of Representatives. 
I believe that the amendments I have moved will assist the Committee to function more efficiently. Members of all parties represented in the Senate, and  Senator Turnbull,  should be given an opportunity to attend the sittings of the Committee and to observe how it functions. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Dame Ivy Wedgwood)  - Is the amendment seconded? 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT - Is it the wish of the Senate that the 2 proposed amendments be debated together and voted on together? There being no objection, that course will be followed. 

 Senator Sir MAGNUS CORMACK (Victoria) [3.23]  -  Before I address myself to the generality of matters raised by  Senator Drury  I wish to comment on some points which interest me in relation to their effect on the Senate. I refer particularly to the allembracing type of provision in paragraph (16) of Message No. 7, which states: 
That the foregoing provisions of this resolution, so far as they arc inconsistent with the Standing Orders, have effect notwithstanding anything contained in the Standing Orders. 
I am afraid that yesterday afternoon, quite unaware of any possible complication, in a discussion with  Senator Willesee,  who was acting then for the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Murphy),  I drew his attention to standing order 300 which forbids a Senate committee to hold meetings while the Senate is sitting. I mentioned to  Senator Willesee  that I had in mind to proceed to change that situation by circulating a proposed amendment. However, there was no committal on this point and I think  Senator Willesee  understood the position. I pursued the matter with the Minister for External Affairs  (Mr McMahon)  whom I discovered to my discomfiture was leaving today to attend a meeting of the Economic Commission for Asia and the Far East in 
Bangkok. Therefore 1 decided not to raise the matter in a formal way in the Senate in addressing myself to consideration of Message No. 7. However, I think I should draw the attention of honourable senators to the fact that a problem is involved concerning honourable senators who are members of select committees or joint committees and may wish to attend proceedings of those committees while the Senate is sitting. This is a problem which bears upon the Opposition and upon the Government. The Leader of the Opposition or the Leader of the Government is involved constantly in seeing that the sanctions of the Senate are carried, and are carried in terms of numbers. This Parliament House is vast and sprawling, so if the Leader of the Opposition wishes to have the numbers behind him in order to enforce a sanction which he considers proper, or if the Leader of the Government wishes to have the numbers behind him to enforce a sanction which he considers proper, the Whips are involved in trying to look for people. 
This is an old Standing Order that has been in the Senate for a long time. I think the matter could be served best by my drawing the attention of honourable senators to the existence of standing order 300 in the context also of paragraph 16 of the message. There is involved in the Senate acceding to paragraph 16 of this message the problem that it overrides, I assume, standing order 300. But apart from whether or not standing order 300 should be overridden by the Senate acceding to paragraph 16, 1 think it is improper that honourable senators should be sitting on committees when they should be in their place in this chamber. 1 make that comment merely as a passing reference. I suggest that the proper way for this to be dealt with would be by the formal procedures of the Senate, by referring the consideration of this paragraph to the Standing Orders Committee for examination and report back to the Senate. In saying that, I hope that  Senator Willesee  will forgive me for any embarrassment that I might have caused him in my discussions with him. They were the normal discussions that take place between members of Parliament relating to the wellbeing of the chamber of which they are members. If I have caused the honourable senator any embarrassment 1 hope that he will forgive me. 
I address myself in general terms to the proposition put forward by  Senator Drury.  The honourable senator said that there is no intention in the amendments that are being moved to take away from the executive component of government the management of foreign affairs. I think that mixed up in this is a misunderstanding. Unconsciously we seem to become involved in conceptions as to how Parliament - the House of Representatives in Washington or the Senate in Washington - operates. In the United States of America there is not a total exclusion of the conduct of foreign affairs between the  President  and the Congress because there are inside the Congress, and particularly in the Senate of the United States of America, certain constitutional proprieties which the Senate particularly is charged with observing. For example, the Senate in Washington moves into the area of presidential powers by the constitutional propriety which it has to observe with its power over the appointments of ambassadors. Also it has powers over the appointment of commanders. So the United States Senate has a constitutional entry into the area of foreign affairs and defence through its own placita, if I may use an Australian word in the context of the American Constitution. 
Treaty making and a few other things. However, I do not want to embark on an enlargement of the United States congressional powers in this context. It is undeniable that the conduct of foreign affairs and defence under a Westminster system of Government such as we follow in Australia, with power over foreign affairs and defence, is totally and exclusively an executive power. The executive power over foreign affairs and defence under our system of government, or the House of Commons procedure, is curbed by the fact that the Commons may discbarge a Ministry, or the House of Representatives in Australia can discharge a Ministry, if it does not agree with the conduct of foreign affairs and defence. This is the sanction that Parliament exercises over government. 1 think it is proper that we should have it clearly in our minds that foreign affairs and defence are an executive function and not a function of parliament. However, it was recognised - I think properly - by Lord Casey when he was Minister for External Affairs that a modern parliamentary system demands at least an acknowledgement and a deeper understanding of what is involved in foreign affairs. Lord Casey was responsible for setting up the first Committee of Foreign Affairs in this Parliament. There were reasons which I do not intend to canvass - they might have been proper reasons, but at least there were reasons subject to argument and debate - why this Committee should not operate other than with enlarged terms. Successive governments of that time refused to enlarge the powers of the Foreign Affairs Committee of the Commonwealth Parliament, as a result of which Australia suffered because for many years there was no Opposition representation on the Committee. 
I make my next remarks in no form of egotism whatever, but mention that the present Governor-General, when Minister for External Affairs, acceded to the argument which I placed before him that some concessions should be made to the demands from the Opposition for some change in the form of procedures of the Foreign Affairs Committee which would allow the Opposition to join the Committee without feeling that it had acted with some political impropriety. Therefore, some  2i  or 3 years ago Opposition members of this Parliament decided, because of a change in the terms of reference, to join the Committee. I should like to think - 1 am sure that what 1 am saying is true - that this joint committee has worked very well and very effectively, but I agree, totally and unequivocally, that the time is not proper, nor is it constitutionally proper, for Parliament to begin to intrude in the minutiae of an examination of foreign affairs, for two reasons. The first reason relates to secrecy. If we do not have an area of secrecy, which I was glad to hear  Senator Drury  acknowledge was proper, immediately we cut off a great deal of the flow of information to members of Parliament. I feel that the reason for this does not require much elaboration, but the basic reason for it is that in the gathering of high grade information it is totally important to protect sources. The sources in these areas and in this context are sources in other and foreign countries. It is proper that there should be an area of secrecy. That is undeniable. 
The second reason is, in generality, that most proceedings of the Foreign Affairs Committee should be heard in camera and in committee because it is an old American concept, which was first enunciated by  President  Wilson and which I have mentioned in the Senate before, that foreign affairs should be conducted on the basis of - I use the President's words - 'open covenants openly reached'. It is just a fact of life that you cannot conduct foreign affairs in the glare of publicity, either national or international. Therefore the maintenance of in camera proceedings of a parliamentary committee on foreign affairs is paramount. If one reads the message carefully one finds that there is no real impediment to the Foreign Affairs Committee hearing matters in public. It may be done with the consent of the Minister. Paragraph 8 of the message transmitted to the Senate by the House of Representatives reads: 
That the committee and its sub-committees shall sit in camera and their proceedings shall be secret unless the Minister at the request of the committee otherwise directs. 
I think it is a fair and proper restriction to place on a parliamentary committee. In a period of perhaps substantial danger to the nation the Executive should be able to exert power over the Foreign Affairs Committee so that it cannot, by an adventitious majority inside the Committee, proceed to hold hearings in public which could restrict the capacity of the Executive to carry out its proper functions or, because again of the operations of an adventitious majority in the Committee, inflame the public mind. I disagree with the amendment proposed by the Opposition to the effect that there should be, as it were, a reversal of this paragraph of the resolution, which is what is involved in the amendment proposed by  Senator Drury.  Paragraph I (b) of this amendment states: 
That paragraph (8) be left out with a view to inserting the following paragraph in place thereof: '(8) That the committee and its sub-committees shall sit in public unless the committee resolves that its own proceedings or a sub-committee's proceedings shall be secret, whereupon they shall sit in camera.' 
The amendment, as I say, involves in fact a reversal of the existing paragraph 8. I do not think the amendment should be supported. I think that the Executive, regardless of its hue, should retain this sort of control over the conduct of matters touching foreign affairs, particularly in relation to high grade and secret information. 1 add this warning: I think any Foreign Affairs Committee composed of members of both Houses of the Parliament would find itself in a position where the government of the day would tend to cut off information which could flow to it, if this amendment were adopted. I think it would do so regardless of the fact that the majority membership of the Committee were according to the hue of the government of the day. At present the flow of high grade information to the Foreign Affairs Committee is very free.  If  the present situation were to be reversed, which has been proposed by  Senator Drury  and 1 presume the proposal will be supported by his colleagues, the tendency will be - in much the same way as a snail retires into its shell when exposed to unwelcome temperatures - that Government will tend to let the flow of information fall off. 
If honourable senators wish to ascertain the truth of my remarks they have only to examine some of the proceedings of the Foreign Affairs Committee of the United States Senate. There is a great withholding of information either at the presidential level or the State Department level because of the very fact 1 have mentioned. What makes it worse in the United States of America is that, as Americans live in a highly libera: society, events which are supposed to be heard within the privacy of a committee are enlarged until they become public property. Often the facts are twisted and distorted in the process of enlargement. As a result, enormous penalties are imposed upon the conduct of the United States Senate Foreign Affairs Committee. The people of the United States may be able to live with this fact, but at the present juncture in Australia we cannot live with it. Finally, I wish to say in this context - and I say it quite humbly as a senator who has sat on this Committee for some years now - that I do not think that as a nation we have reached a level of maturity where we can consider foreign affairs matters in the glare of publicity in which they are considered in the United States of America. 
I am in no way deprecating the distinguished lady senator and the other distinguished honourable senators and members of the other place who sit on the Committee or implying that they are less competent than members and honourable senators in other jurisdictions or of other nationalities. 1 think anybody who has sat around the table of the Foreign Affairs Committee will agree that we have not reached the level of maturity in the conduct of international affairs that has been reached in the older societies. Only a few years ago the Department of External Affairs was a miniscule organisation. I think  Sir Keith  Waller said the other day that there were only five staff members in the Department of External Affairs when he joined it, and now it has something like 3,000. It has grown very quickly. When I first came into this Parliament we were following the foreign policy lines which were laid down in the United Kingdom. They were accepted as a part of Australia's foreign policy. In the last 15 or 16 years Australia has had to carve, to hack out, at least the beginning of a road into its own foreign policy. The members of Parliament who are involved in this self education process would, I suggest, be very unwise to seek fuller parliamentary power over the area of conduct of foreign affairs matters. I do not think that I can accept the amendment which has been moved by  Senator Drury  in this regard. 
I refer to the portion of the amendment which proposes that the Foreign Affairs Committee report to the Parliament on such matters as are referred to it by either House of the Parliament. A piece of pragmatism is involved here. The Foreign Affairs Committee can initiate an examination of any matter and report on it to the Minister. There are no problems in this regard. The membership of the Foreign Affairs Committee is drawn from both chambers and from the 4 Parties of the Parliament. It is possible within the Committee to initiate an examination of any matter which the Committee considers proper, lt does not require a resolution of either House to provide the subject matter of an inquiry. If the amendment is supported it will mean a reversal of the situation which exists at present whereby the Foreign Affairs Committee may examine matters referred to it by the Minister. As  Chairman  of the Foreign Affairs Committee I have taken advantage of this provision and asked the Minister to refer a certain matter to the Committee. In the case of one quite momentous report, I asked him to refer the area of examination to the Committee. This was the first real examination which the Committee was charged with conducting on a reference by the then Minister for External Affairs. It was an area of great sensitivity. The inquiry was conducted under the chairmanship of the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley).  The Committee's membership was mixed. It produced a first class report. 
An interesting thing about this paragraph is that if the Committee reports to the Minister on a matter referred to it by the Minister the Minister must report to the Parliament his receipt of the report and the Minister must make a copy of it available to the Leader of the Opposition. I think it comes back to the original remark that the Parliament itself is well covered and well protected. If the Minister wishes to try to manipulate the Foreign Affairs Committee by trying to obtain a sort of rubber stamp report from it the Parliament will be protected, because the Minister must report to the Parliament that he has received such a report and a copy of the report must be handed to the Leader of the Opposition. 
The second part of the amendment moved by  Senator Drury  is a procedural matter. It requests that at the end of paragraph 3 the following words be added: with a  request for the  concurrence  of that  House in  the Senate's  modifications  of the  Resolution transmitted  to the  Senate by  the  House. 1 admit to favouring some theoretical concepts of the amendment which has been proposed by the Opposition, but in terms of practice and experience, both as an individual member of the Foreign Affairs Committee and as its  chairman  for nearly 3 years, I consider it would be unwise and improper to attempt to use the Foreign Affairs Committee as a cockpit and a bearpit for partisan politics. 
My question is  directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport. Is he aware that television sets which can be plugged into the cigar lighters of motor vehicles are available? Because of the enormous road toll in life, injury and damage, will the Minister consult with State authorities and motor vehicle and television manufacturers for the purpose of discouraging the use of television sets in motor vehicles? 
At the outset I would like to say that the Australian Labor Party has never been opposed to the building of the Dartmouth dam. We feel that any water storage along the River Murray system is of national importance and therefore should be proceeded with, but what we are concerned about is the agreement which was made in 1963 for the building of the Chowilla dam. As has been stated in this place before on many occasions, the building of the Chowilla dam would not give South Australia any extra water but the purpose of the dam was to conserve water that came down to South Australia in the wet years against the time when there was a drought and therefore we would have a storage right on our door step to release water which would keep down the salinity level in the River Murray and would be sufficient to supply the people along the River Murray -the irrigators - and enable the industries in South Australia to maintain production. We of the Labor Party, as I mentioned earlier, believe that this Bill is a repudiation of South Australia's legal rights and a repudiation of South Australia's rights to the protection of Chowilla and what it would offer us in the quantity and quality of water. 
The River Murray is the lifeline of South Australia not only for the irrigators along the river but also virtually for all of our industrial development which depends on water from it. Without an assured supply South Australia's development must suffer. As 1 mentioned earlier, it is the 1963 agreement which has been repudiated and this is what the Labor Party is opposed to. This agreement was approved by the 3 States concerned and by the national Parliament. It was supported by each and every member of this place and another place. 
Yes, it is still the law as far as the legal rights of South Australia are concerned. It was provided in the agreement that when Chowilla was built the share of the water from the River Murray would rise in the years of restriction from three-thirteenths of the total to one-third of the total. The dam would give South Australia a large body of fresh water at its door step enabling satisfactory quality and satisfactory quantity control. It was this agreement which enabled South Australia to face future expansion with an assured water supply, and I feel that the repudiation of this agreement will help dampen down industrial development in South Australia as well as inflicting hardship on those people who are trying to get a living in the fruit growing areas below Renmark. Now, what has happened as far as the new agreement is concerned? It will give more water to the 2 States on the upper reaches of the river and these States, rightly, are looking forward to an expansion of industry and to regional development. They put forward plans which will mean that a certain number of towns will be built outside the metropolitan areas. To supply these towns with sufficient water to keep them going both domestically and industrially means that the upper reaches of the Murray above South Australia will probably have to be tapped. If one looks at an article by William Goff which appeared on page 3 of the 'Australian' on Monday 6th April one can see the planning that has taken place as far as decentralisation is concerned in New South Wales and Victoria. The article is headed: 
State studies  9-region  plan for development. 
It states in part, dealing with New South Wales: 
The project involves developing 1, 2 or 3 towns in each of the 9 areas. By the year 2000, the areas would have I town of about 100,000 population, or 2 or 3 with 50,000 to 60,000 each. The towns would become the industrial, educational and agricultural centre of the region, respectively. The New South Wales Minister for Decentralisation and Development,  Mr Fuller,  outlined progress on the far reaching plan in a special interview. 
Dealing with Victoria  Mr Fuller  said: 
Victoria has different decentralisation problems to those of New South Wales because of the difference in size. It adopted the 'chosen place' plan after an advisory committee's report in 1967. Under the plan 5 Victorian towns have been chosen for intensive development, and the Victorian Government gives substantial aid. 
Of course, we do not want to knock this development. Neither are we opposed to development in New South Wales or Victoria. We welcome this because it is of national importance that more and more decentralisation should take place. When one looks at the amount of water that can be taken from the River Murray one realises that there is a limit to it and we have to plan not only for the immediate future but for the years to come. 
Eventually I feel that this will have to happen. If we are to develop towns that are already in existence or build new towns they have to be supplied with water. Will Victoria and New South Wales have sufficient water to do this without tapping the River Murray? 
Or. as  Senator Ridley  says, its tributaries? Victoria will get Dartmouth, and if it sees fit it will develop existing towns or establish new towns where it can get water from the Murray. I believe that South Australia will gel water but we cannot do the same with the water that we receive. I emphasise that the more water that is taken out of the Murray and used for industrial and irrigation purposes the higher the salinity will be. South Australia could end up getting virtually polluted water and this would debar it from further development and also have an effect on the domestic use of water. As I said, South Australia will get water but we will get it in good years only. Cities cannot be built or developed on terms of water in good years only. I believe that the Australian Labor Party has been wise in persisting with its efforts to have Chowilla built because Chowilla will provide water not only for the immediate future but also right up to the turn of the century. The conservation of water in South Australia, particularly if it can be made available to inland areas, will enable us to expand our industries and will enable inland development to take place. Each and every honourable senator knows that even before the new pipeline was built into the Mallee district of South Australia, between 900 and 1,000 miles of water pipeline had been laid in South Australia, reticulating water to the far north and to the south. 
The building of Chowilla will enable South Australia to extend its industries not only in the immediate future but also until the turn of the century. Should Dartmouth Dam and Lake Victoria be developed instead of Chowilla, South Australia will lose its potential to conserve water. This is what the ALP and the majority of people in South Australia are concerned about. Chowilla would not provide South Australia with any more water, but it would store water which at present is running into the sea. Water could be stored in Chowilla for use in dry years and it would be available for use immediately; we would not have to wait for it to flow 1,000 miles down the river from Dartmouth. The Senate will realise that it is possible that Victoria will gain in more ways than one if Dartmouth is built, but let us be careful to ensure that development up river from South Australia does nol have a vital effect on the future availability of water to South Australia. 1 believe that the construction of Chowilla will permit South Australia to have better primary production and more of it, belter industries and more commerce and will provide greater potential for employers and employees. If Victoria can achieve these things through the construction of Dartmouth, good luck to it. I do nol criticise Victoria for that. But I remind the Senate that without Chowilla South Australia will have to curb its expansion of primary industry and also the expansion of other commercial and secondary industries. 
There is an enormous difference between South Australia and the other States along the River Murray in the use to which they put the water of the Murray. At present New South Wales and Victoria use River Murray water almost exclusively for their large irrigation settlements, but South Australia needs River Murray water for 85% to 90% of its total requirements for irrigation, industry and domestic consumption in its cities and country areas. This is why we in South Australia believe that Chowilla is essential. Chowilla will supply quality water where we need it, right at our doorstep - not 1,000 miles away in Victoria, above Albury and the Hume Dam. South Australia has been promised an additional 250,000 acre feet of water from Dartmouth, but will it be clean water? When the other States have taken what they want from the Murray will that remaining for South Australia be sludge? This could happen by the turn of the century. We have to look that far ahead because by the lime both these dams could be built, in operation and effective, we will be about 20 years from the turn of the century. Will the same conditions apply then as apply now or will apply in the very near future? 
During the debate on this Bill in another place many members of the ALP, particularly those from South Australia, were accused by the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  of being parochial and trying to play upon the emotions of people in South Australia. I remind the Senate that  Mr Giles  was a member of the Chowilla Promotion Committee and that it was not until after the Federal elections that he became vociferous about the building of Dartmouth and in opposition to the building of Chowilla. While he was a member of the Committee he was a great supporter of the building of Chowilla. The Labor Party has been accused of playing politics in this matter but we suggest that the true solution of this problem in Australia must take into account all aspects - industrial, commercial and primary production - for which more water is necessary. With the construction of Chowilla Australia could have an additional 3 million to 6 million acre feet of water after1980 for an additional expenditure of $50m to$60m. Can South Australia do without a share of this water if the State is to advance in the areas that I have mentioned? Can South Australia afford not to have the Chowilla Dam? We are not opposed to the building of the Dartmouth Dam, but we still believe that even with the building of Dartmouth, Chowilla also should be built. 
At this very moment of the debate the Government should give a firm undertaking to the people of South Australia -I hope that the Minister will do this - that Chowilla will be built. If one looks at the River Murray Waters Agreement one sees that the wordsof Chowilla are to be omitted, and an examination of clause 13 of the Agreement reveals that the deferring of the Chowilla Dam could mean the end of that scheme. This is what the ALP opposes because the future construction of Chowilla could be vetoed when a new agreement was being made. A new agreement between the three States concerned and the Commonwealth Government will be necessary if Chowilla is to be built, but if one State disagrees with the building of Chowilla it will be lost for all time. 
The South Australian Government was accused of stalling over the building of Chowilla and it was criticised for having further studies made with regard to Chowilla, but it must be remembered that in order to go to arbitration it is necessary to have a case to put before the arbitrator. The only way in which South Australia could get a case was to have further studies made. 
Yes. Unfortunately, against the will of the people of South Australia, a Liberal government was returned in that State and the whole approach to Chowilla was changed. The Steele Hall Government refused to have anything more to do with it and began to talk about Dartmouth. It should be remembered that during the last State election campaign in South Australia  Mr Hall  said that the Chowilla project would be completed. I believe this is how the Australian Labor Party lost two of the seats it held in the River Murray region. The propaganda at that time was to the effect that the South Australian Government would complete the Chowilla project. Since being returned to office in 1968 the Hall Government in South Australia has turned a complete somersault. We find now that the amendment to the Agreement has been signed and has to be ratified by this Parliament. The present situation is far different from the cry which the Hall Government made in South Australia during the last State election campaign. 1 move the following amendment to the motion that the River Murray Waters Bill be now read a second time: 
Leave out all words after 'That', insert: the Senate is of opinion that the Bill should not be proceeded with until the Commonwealth has negotiated with the States for the establishment of a national water conservation and constructing authority, embracing the Snowy Mountains Authority, to carry out a systematic and efficient development of soundly based water storages in the major river basins including the Murray and Darling systems'. 
Furthermore, I indicate that in the Committee stage of the River Murray Waters Bill I shall move an amendment to clause 4, as follows: 
Leave out: is hereby ratified and approved', insert 'shall not be approved until an immediate computer evaluation of the construction of storages of various capacities at both Dartmouth and Chowilla has been completed'. 
I indicate also that to the motion that the Dartmouth Reservoir Agreement Bill be now read a second time I shall move the following amendment: 
Leave out all words after 'That', insert: the Senate is of opinion that the Agreement should not be approved until an immediate computer evaluation of the construction of storages of various capacities at both Dartmouth and Chowilla has been completed'. 
Criticism will be levelled at these amendments. Some of the criticism probably will be to the effect that if the amendments are carried the construction of either dam will be held up. However, it would not take very long to do the computer evaluation which is recommended in the amendments. 
As  Senator Ridley  has pointed out, most of the data is available at present. One has only to read the speech which was made in the other place by the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn),  who was the Minister for National Development at the time the new scheme was proposed, to appreciate the present situation. He said that if South Australia did not get the Dartmouth project it would not get anything at all. I feel that such a statement is tantamount to holding a gun to the heads of the people of South Australia. I believe that Dartmouth and Chowilla could both be constructed, even if it would cost extra money. 
So does the money to fight the war in Vietnam. What about the money spent on the Fill? I would like to have a tree in my backyard. What is money when the development of the whole nation is concerned? If a war broke out tomorrow the Government would be able to find plenty of money for it, as has happened in the past. The Government should give consideration to the construction of the 2 dams, but it should give a firm assurance that the Chowilla project will be the next one on the River Murray. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Lawrie)  - ls the amendment moved by  Senator Drury  to the motion for the second reading of the River Murray Waters Bill seconded? 
As indicated in my speech during the second reading debate I wish to move an amendment to clause 4 which reads: 
The sixthfurther amending Agreement, a copy of which is set out in section 7 of this Act, is hereby ratified and approved. 
I move: 
Omit 'is hereby ratified and approved', insert Shall not be approved until an immediate computer evaluation of the construction of storages of various capacities at both Dartmouth and Chowilla has been completed'. 
I will not canvass what I said during the second reading debate, but 1 believe that some explanation should be given of the reason why this amendment is proposed by the Opposition. We have not been told whether a complete computer investigation has been made of the building of the 2 dams together. We have been told that there has been a computer estimate on Dartmouth and its consequences and also on Chowilla and its consequences, but we have not been told what is the result and what would be the benefits to the River Murray scheme if both dams were built together. I, in com mon with other honourable senators on this side of the chamber, am fearful that if Dartmouth is completed and if no firm indication is given that Chowilla will be built in the future - and the Minister has not given us any such firm indication; he has said that Chowilla will be considered along with other storages on the Murray - the future of Chowilla will remain uncertain. I believe that this is not sufficient. Clause 10 of the Eighth Schedule to the Bill states: 
Clause 20 of the Agreement is amended - 
by deleting in paragraph (ii) all words after the words 'Lake Victoria' and inserting in their stead the words 'with inlet and outlet works that are of a size that will, in the opinion of the Contracting Governments, ensure the effectiveness of the system of storage in the regulation of the River Murray (including operations after the Dartmouth Reservoir has become effective for the purpose of this Agreement)' 
Let us analyse this. It is estimated that approximately$7m will be spent on altering the inlet and outlet flow of Lake Victoria. Paragraph 13 of the Eighth Schedule, which amends clause 24 of the Agreement, states: 
by adding at the end of the clause the words However, completion of the construction of the 
Chowilla Reservoir shall be deferred until the Contracting Governments agree that the work shall proceed. Furthermore, in the case of any work for which the estimated cost at the time of approval exceeds $500,000 . . . 
I shall not read any further, but that clause indicates that if the estimated amount is spent on Lake Victoria improvements and if in future consideration is given to the building of Chowilla the money spent on the Lake Victoria improvements would be wasted because the building of the Chowilla dam would mean that the Lake Victoria improvements would be inundated. That would mean that another $7m, on top of the $6m spent already on Chowilla, making a total of$1 3m, would be wasted. We were told that one of the reasons why Chowilla was not a reasonable proposition was the escalation of costs from the initial estimate to the present estimate. So an additional $13m, or about one-fifth of the amount that it would have cost originally to build Chowilla will be wasted if Chowilla is constructed in the future. 
The Agreement also states that the future construction of Chowilla, if this should be brought about, must be agreed to by the 4 contracting parties. By interjection tonight it was said that Victoria would not support the construction of Chowilla. The people of South Australia are very worried indeed that the wording in relation to the construction of Chowilla has not been clarified and that no definite intimation that this dam will be built has been given. If the dam is not built, I feel that in future there will be no guarantee that the amount of water promised from Dartmouth will be forthcoming to South Australia in the quality and quantity that is desired to keep the South Australian industries, irrigation schemes and commercial enterprises working at top level. I have moved the amendment. I hope that the Senate will carry it. 
My question . is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation. 1 ask the Minister whether he has obtained an answer to question No. 53 on the notice paper. The question reads: 
Are crew members of RAAF Hercules aircraft flying from Australia to Vietnam with supplies and equipment entitled to full repatriation benefits, war service home loans and rehabilitation facilities and war service land settlement loans if injured or wounded on these flights. 
On behalf of the Opposition I move the following amendment: 
Leave out all words after That', insert 'the Senate is of opinion that the Agreement should not be approved until an immediate computer evaluation of the construction of storages of various capacities at both Dartmouth and Chowilla has been completed'. 
I believe that enough was said in relation to this matter during the debate when the 2 Bills were taken together. I hope that we can take the word of  Senator Cotton,  who represents the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz),  that Chowilla will be considered as a future storage. I hope that in the near future South Australia will receive the benefits which will accrue to it from the construction of the Chowilla Dam. However, I am afraid that unless the 3 governments concerned and the 
Commonwealth Government come to agreement the Chowilla Dam will be lost for all time. 
Can the Minister rep  resenting the Minister for Health inform the Senate whether a judgment was given recently in Germany against the manufacturers of the drug thalidomide? What is the total amount of the compensation? How much will the parents of thalidomide affected children in Australia receive? What procedure will they have to adopt to obtain their share of the compensation? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation, upon notice: 
Are crew members of R.A.A.F. Hercules aircraft flying from Australia to Vietnam with supplies and equipment entitled to full repatriation benefits, War Service Homes Loans and rehabilitation facilities and War Service Land Settlement Loans if injured or wounded on these flights. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Postmaster-General I ask: Will the Postmaster-General give consideration to the installation of telephones, without rental charges, in all aged persons homes organisations? If these telephones were situated in group recreational areas it would mean that aged persons would not have to travel long distances to use public telephones. 
1 take the opportunity of the debate on this Bill to raise an important matter which 1 believe is not only vital to South Australia but also to Australia as a whole. 1 refer to the portion of the Eyre Highway which is yet to be sealed - about 300 miles in length - on the South Australian side of the border between South Australia and Western Australia. The Eyre Highway is a very important road. Its importance was recognised by the Commonwealth during World War II when it financed the construction of this road and contributed to its maintenance. However, the Commonwealth will not accept any financial responsibility for sealing this road. The Eyre Highway is important not only from a tourism point of view but also from a defence point of view because it could play a major role in a future defence system in Australia. 
The Eyre Highway stretches from Adelaide to Perth, which is a distance of about 1,700 miles. As I have mentioned, the only portion which is yet to be sealed is a stretch of 300 miles on the South Australian side of the border between South Australia and Western Australia. Prom time to time the South Australian Government has made requests to the Commonwealth Government for financial assistance to complete the sealing of- this stretch of road. On one occasion the Commonwealth Government was asked for a sum of $6m over a 6-year period to complete the sealing of this section. This request was supported not only by the Western Australian Government but also by a conference of State Ministers for Tourism. According to answers which have been given by the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Sinclair)  in the other place it is the responsibility of the South Australian Government to find the necessary funds to seal this road. The South Australian Government has been told that any expenditure on the road in the future will have to be made from its own funds at a rate determined according to the number of motor vehicles registered in the State. I believe that this view is a very narrow one because not only do cars from South 
Australia use this road but also cars from the other States. Although I have no figures on the number of ears which actually use the road, I believe that the number of interstate cars which use it would be greater than the number of South Australian cars which use it. 
If the sealing of the road is to be completed by South Australia without any assistance from the Commonwealth, I believe - and this is also the belief of most honourable senators from South Australia - that it will be many years before it can be completed. During this period, of course, money will have to be found for the maintenance of the sealed portion of the road, which will place a further financial burden on the State. Questions have been asked not only in this chamber but also in the other place on this subject. I wish to quote part of a question which was asked by  Senator Bishop  on 30th May 1969 in this chamber. The question appears at page 1834 of Hansard.  Senator Bishop  said: 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport whether it is  a  fact that successive South Australian governments have requested financial aid from the Commonwealth in order to seal the last section of the great national road between Ceduna and the Western Australian border- 
The question goes on to point out that, as I have already indicated, those requests were supported by the Western Australian Government and the conference of. State Ministers for Tourism. I shall quote only part of the answer which was given by  Senator Scott,  who was at the time Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport. He said: 1  understand that because of lack of finance, approaches have been made by the South Australian Government to the Commonwealth for financial assistance.  1  would think that at this moment that request is being considered. I have not heard that it has been refused. Because of the generous treatment of all States by the Commonwealth under the new aid roads programme, no doubt there will be sufficient funds, to carry out extensive road works. If this assistance is not sufficient, no doubt the Minister for Shipping and Transport, on behalf of the Commonwealth, will be looking at ways and means of assisting South Australia to complete is programme. 
The answer to this question would appear to indicate that the Commonwealth Government might give some assistance to South Australia in the way of a special grant for. the completion of this road because the sealing of it is a very important matter to South 
Australia, but evidently the Commonwealth Government has not come to the party, as this finance has not been made available up to this point of time. I urge the Government to consider the request that it make available to South Australia the necessary funds to complete the sealing of this section. I ask it to do so as quickly as possible because, as I have said, this is a very important highway. It is vital not only to South Australia but also to Western Australia. The standard rail link between Adelaide and Perth has been almost completed. Only a matter of a few miles between Port Pirie and Adelaide have to be completed. When this section of the railway line is completed South Australia will have a complete rail connection with Western Australia and the eastern States. I feel that the completion of the scaling of this road will add a vital highway to the Australian highway system. It could then be used, as I have said previously, not only as a means of enabling people in one State to visit another State but also, if an emergency were to arise in the future, it could play a very important part in our defence system. 

 Mr Webb, the honourable member for Stirling, has also asked questions regarding the sealing of the Eyre Highway. He received an answer from the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Sinclair)  which appears in the Hansard report of another place of 18th March 1969. It is question No. 1128. I will not quote all the question. It is in 3 parts. I will quote the third part of the question, but the other 2 parts are questions which I have already dealt with. It reads: 
3. As the sealing of this gap is a national responsibility, will he make funds available for this purpose? 
The answer to that part of the question was as follows:  t 3. Although the Commonwealth provides substantial financial assistance to the States for roads in the Commo'nwealth Aid Roads Act and also  provides a special and distinct grant for the main- tenance of this highway the responsibility for the  construction and maintenance of roads is  constitutionally  a responsibility of the State.  j.This may be so as far as the Constitution  is  concerned but I feel the Commonwealth j[ Government should make the necessary [ finance available to complete this section of the highway by special grant to the State Governments, as it has done in the past in respect of other projects.  Mr Wallis,  the honourable member for Grey, has also asked questions about this highway. Honourable senators can understand that this is a very important subject not only from the point of view of South Australia but from the point of view of Western Australia as well.  Mr Wallis  asked a number of questions. I will not quote them because I feel it would take too long. The Minister's answer is a lengthy one. 
I do not know about that. 
 I am just as anxious as anybody else to get away from this Parliament. It is not very often that I waste the time of the Parliament. 

 - Mr Wallis, as reported on page 277 of the Hansard report of another place on 11th March 1970, directed a question to the Minister for Shipping and Transport. He asked: 
Following the meeting in February of the Australian Transport Advisory Council, was the question of the sealing of the Eyre Highway from Ceduna to the Western Australian border discussed with the South Australian Minister for Roads If so, were any undertakings given by the Federal Minister to assist the South Australian Government in the sealing of this vital road to the West? 
The Minister in answer said: 
As honourable members will recall, last year the Commonwealth Aid Roads Agreement was renegotiated between the Commonwealth and the States. During the Course of the preparation of this legislation there were, of course, discussions between the States and the Commonwealth on the whole ambit of required avenues of expenditure for the funds envisaged under the new S-year agreement. 
It is a lengthy answer. I do not feel it is necessary to quote any more of it. In conclusion I would ask the Government to do all it possibly can to make this finance available so that this very important section of the Eyre Highway linking Adelaide and Perth can be completed. I would ask the Government to grant any moneys it can find to the States for this purpose. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Wood)  -  Senator Keeffe,  have you spoken on this Bill previously? 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a first time. 
Can the Minister for Works inform the Senate of the stage reached in the erection of the customs laboratory project in Tapley's Hill Road, Seaton. South Australia? How much has been expended on the laboratory up to this point of time? What will be the total cost of the project? 
Can the  Minister  for Works inform the Senate whether work has commenced on extensions to the physiotherapy section of St Margaret's Rehabilitation Centre at Felixstowe in South Australia? If so, what stage has the work reached? Can the Minister give an estimated date of completion? 
1 will not delay the Senate for very long. I will try not to repeat the points raised by my colleagues. Just 2 years ago the late  Senator Laught  presented to this Parliament the report of the Senate Select Committee on Metric System of Weights and Measures. I agree with honourable senators who have said that it is a great pity that  Senator Laught  is not here with us and that he was prevented by his untimely death from witnessing the passing of this legislation. I believe that this is the first of the Bills that will have to be brought before the Parliament to implement the Committee's report in favour of the adoption of the metric system of weights and measures in Australia. I am certain that it would have given  Senator Laught  a great deal of pleasure to be with us today to see this legislation introduced. As has been said, he did a great deal of work in helping the Committee to formulate its report. 
The Bill is stated to be one to facilitate the adoption in Australia and in certain Territories of the Commonwealth of the metric system of measurement and for that purpose to establish a Metric Conversion Board. That was one of the recommendations of the Committee. I agree with  Senator Greenwood  that one of the main parts of the Bill is clause 5, which reads: 
The object of this Act is to bring about progressively the use of the metric system of measurement in Australia as the sole system of measurement of physical quantities. 
The Bill will allow the setting up the Metric Conversion Board, which will be similar to the one that was set up for the changeover from pounds, shillings and pence to the decimal currency system. As  Senator Poyser  and  Senator Greenwood  have pointed out, this changeover will have a far greater impact on Australia than did the setting up of the Decimal Currency Board and the adoption of decimal currency in Australia. 
The Metric Conversion Board will have as its responsibility the co-ordination of metrication in the various parts of the economy. This will be a very big job. I believe that this changeover will affect more areas of the Australian way of life than did the decimal currency changeover. On page (iii) of the report of the Senate Select Committee there is an extract from the Report on Weights and Measures made by the Secretary of State of the United States of America, John Quincy Adams, to the American Senate on 22nd February 1821. With the concurrency of honourable senators, I incorporate it in Hansard. 
Weights and measures may be ranked among the necessaries of life, to every individual of human society. They enter into the economical arrangements and daily concerns of every family. They are necessary to every occupation of human industry; to the distribution and security of every species of property; to every transaction of trade and commerce; lo the labors of the husbandman; to the ingenuity of the artificer; to the studies of the philosopher; to the researches of the antiquarian; lo the navigation of the mariner, and the marches of the soldier; to all the exchanges of peace, and all the operations of war. The knowledge of them, as in established use, is among the first elements of education, and is often learned by those who learn nothing else, not even lo read and write. This knowledge is riveted in the memory by the habitual application of it to the employments of men throughout life. 
Since the presentation of the report of the Senate Select Committee a far greater interest has been taken in the possibility of a changeover to the metric system of weights and measures. I believe that that will have a good effect. In some fields there has already been a changeover to the metric system. Strangely enough, if one buys a medicine measuring glass now it is marked in milligrams instead of in the old fashioned teaspoons and tablespoon. Also in food and grocery stores one will see today many articles with the weight marked on them in the 2 systems, the old imperial system and the new metric system. 
The report to the Parliament has created the necessity for industries and other people in Australia to take an interest in and perhaps to help with the phasing out of the old system and the phasing in of the new.  1  believe that this will help in regard to the cost of the phasing in and phasing out. If the people concerned in the various industries, including primary industry, the other forms of commerce and the professions know that when this Bill is passed the metric system of weights and measures will come about, they will take the opportunity, in the course of obsolescence, to phase out the old system and to commence the new. On page 35 of tha report it is stated that for each year during which the phasing out takes place there will be a cost increase of about 7%. That was given in evidence to the Committee. 
So, all in all, although it is 3 years since the Senate Select Committee was set up and 2 years since its report was presented, I believe that the Government, now that it has taken this step, will do all it possibly can to facilitate the setting up of the Board and also to facilitate the gradual adoption of the metric system of weights and measures. With the rest of my colleagues, I support the Bill. I repeat that it is regrettable that  Senator Laught  is not here to see this legislation introduced. 
I ask for leave to take my 2 proposed amendments together. 
asked the Minister for Works, upon notice: 
What stage has been reached inthe erection of the customs laboratory project in Tapley's Hill Road, Seaton, South Australia. 
How much has been expended onthe laboratory, and what will be thetotal cost of the project. 
The measure before the Senate proposes an amendment to the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories Act to allow the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories to import rubella vaccine. The amendments contained in the Bill relate to section 9b of the principal Act. This matter is explained in the first paragraph of the Minister's second reading speech, lt states: 
The Bill before the Senate is to authorise the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories Commission to import and sell to the Commonwealth, for the purpose of immunisation campaigns, those vaccines referred to in section 9b of the National Health Act. At present that Act refers to poliomyelitis and measles vaccines and included in the amendments to that Act which are before the Senate is one which contains a proposal to include rubella - German measles - vaccine in section 9b.  1 would like to quote from an article which appeared in the 'Australian' of 9th September 1969 which explained the dangers of rubella and the effects it has on new born children. From time to time it has been said that the name 'German measles' should never have been given to this disease and from what I have seen and read in different articles it seems to be very widespread. The article states: 
PREGNANCY DANGER 
Rubella - commonly and wrongfully called German measles - is a mild infection in adults but is considered the greatest single cause of deformity in new born children. 
The danger is at its peak during the first 2 months of pregnancy. Medical scientists believe, that about 20% of women reach adult age in Australia without becoming immune through infection. 
Hundreds of births of deformed children each year are attributed to rubella infection in these women during early pregnancy. 
In 1940, rubella appeared in epidemic forms in Australia. The epidemic was extensive and the disease was severe. Many young men and women who were called up for Army service during that time contracted it and for a time, because of its severity, the diagnosis of rubella was in doubt. It was not until the first half of 1941 that the late  Sir Norman  Gregg, an ophthalmologist, observed an unusual number of congenital cataracts. In addition to cataracts, most of which were bilateral, many infants were small, ill-nourished and difficult to feed. In 67 cases,  Dr Gregg  found a history of rubella in mothers in early pregnancy and 44 of those cases also had congenital heart disease. He established this on clinical grounds. 
Later,  Dr Swan  of Adelaide and  Dr Gregg  found that a high proportion of these children, as they became older, was deaf. This deafness was due to the fact that the mothers had contracted rubella in the early stages of their pregnancies. It was noted also at that time that many of the children had other deformities as well. Of course it was nol until an epidemic of this type occurred between 1962 and 1965, when a great number of malformed and deformed births occurred, that the virus was actually isolated.  Dr Swan  and  Dr Gregg  proved that the syndrome of cataracts, heart disease and deafness often associated with mental retardation was rubella and it came to be known as the rubella syndrome. 
Although no mention has been made of what the cost of providing this vaccine to the women of Australia will be, many suggestions have been made as to when the vaccination should take place. Some recommendations have been that young women should be vaccinated at school-going age or later and others have been made that all women should be vaccinated with this vaccine. 
I would like to make the point that it seems to me that somewhat of a contradiction arises here. On the one hand, the Government is prepared to spend and is spending a great deal of money making sure that the unborn child is protected and yet, on the other hand, I read in the 'Sydney Morning Herald', this morning, that members of the Liberal Party have asked for an extension of the abortion laws. This relaxation of the abortion laws has taken place in some States already. 
It seems to me, I repeat, a contradiction that on one hand the Commonwealth spends money to protect the unborn child and to make certain, as far as it is humanly possible, that that child will be born a normal human being, yet on the other hand it is suggested that these laws should be relaxed. 1 am not canvassing the rights or wrongs of this move. By extension of such laws, we take from the unborn child the right to live. 1 feel that this is a grave contradiction. 
So, without taking up any more of the time of the Senate. I indicate that the Australian Labor Party supports this Bill. We hope that, as a result of the passage of this legislation, the necessary benefits that we hope the vaccine will produce will be facilitated so that we may make certain that the unborn child is not denied its right to be born as a normal human being and not be malformed in any way whatsoever. 

 Senator MULVIHILL (New South Wales) 1.3.51]  -  I enter this debate very briefly to direct to the Minister for Housing  (Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin),  who represents in the Senate the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes),  a few questions dealing with the second an. third paragraphs of the circulated copy of her second reading speech. In common with  Senator Drury  and other honourable senators, I have a high regard for the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories. The only regret that 1 have is that we have not been able to develop and to enter the drug manufacturing trade with regard lo human beings lo the same extent as we have in relation to the field of stock. 
Let me deal wilh the questions that worry mc. In her second reading speech, the Minister said: 
The Commission then claims reimbursement from the Department of Health for the vaccine supplied in accordance with a price that has been determined by the Minister under section 22 of the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories Act. 
I think that the history of national health schemes in Great Britain and New Zealand as well as the counterpart national health scheme in the United States of Amenca, known as Medicare, will show that constant high level guerilla warfare has existed between the authorities and drug companies concerning overcharging. As a matter of fact in Great Britain - whether the Government be formed by the Conservative Party or the Labour Party - after confrontation between the drug companies and the Government, the drug companies on many occasions have reduced their charges. I should like the Minister for Housing to elaborate on this point. Are there any occasions on which the Minister for Health has told some of these overseas drug companies that they are making a welter of their charges to the Australian public? Has the Minister ever been successful in having those charges reduced? Is the Minister satisfied that the powers are there for the Minister to protect the Australian taxpayer? 
I come back to the second paragraph of the circulated copy of the Ministers second reading speech to pose my second question. With the widening ambit of the use of lifesaving drugs, does the Government contemplate that, without being a retail operator, it will become a wholesaler or producer of these drugs? lt is obvious that, as types of treatments become more sophisticated, a justification exists for the Commonwealth Scrum Laboratories lo reenter the production field. 1 do not wish lo discuss old feuds or rekindle happenings of the past. I know that my colleague,  Senator O'Byrne,  could well recall one occasion when a top officer of this body had a violent conflict wilh the government of the day when he warned it that if it did not sound the tocsin and produce its own drugs Australia would be in bondage to foreign drug houses. No doubt exists about that. I repeat that the United States of America, Great Britain and New Zealand at various times have been victims of excessive price charges for drugs. The main point I make here is that, in relation to all this talk about participation by the people, if the Minister for Health would lay on the table occasionally instances of overcharging, the image that the big drug companies try lo create of companies bleeding for us all would be put in proper perspective. I leave those thoughts with the Minister. 
The precedent has been discussed in relation to Bills recently before the Senate. These amendments are of the same kind as those which have been accepted recently by the Senate. 1 do not see any reason why the Committee should not accept these amendments. 
The I  EMPORARY  CHAIRMAN (Senator Sir Magnus Cormack)  - Order! It has been suggested that the word 'and' immediately preceding the words 'on such other terms" in proposed new sub-section (3.) of section 23 of the principal Act be left out. Is there any objection to the amendment being so amended? There being no objection, that course will be followed. 
As I said before, this has become a matter of moment for the Senate. The Senate has done this sort of thing recently, as  Senator McManus  said. The Australian Labor Party will proceed with the amendment. 

 Senator CAVANAGH (South Australia; [4.19]  -  I just want lo add a few remarks. 1 am concerned with what  Senator Mc  Ma mis has said. As honourable senators know, the provision we are considering has been in many Acts. No-one had taken any notice of it until the Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances drew attention to the legal point as to whether it was right for a Minister to determine salaries. A vote taken on a certain regulation decided that it was a question for parliamentary control and that we. as representatives of the people, are responsible for the expenditure of money and that we should be the ones to say what salary should be allowed to an individual who holds a high government office. I think if was al that time that an extension of an allowance to cover a section of the Services was discussed. I think that we should be consistent, and we have followed this principle in rc!&gt;&gt;tion to every Bill that has since come before us. We have made the necessary alteration to bring the legislation into line with the thinking of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee as endorsed by the Senate. Last evening when he was speaking  Senator Murphy  was asked whether we should nol have some machinery to cover these proposals and to bring them up to date. Which he was agreeable to that suggestion, he pointed out thai wc could deal with only those Bills which came before us. Accordingly, that is all we have power to amend at this time. 
This afternoon we have been told that both Houses have accepted the principle. But we know it has accepted thai principle only in relation to such Bills as the Senate has amended. There has been some talk of overriding legislation which will cover not only Bills which come before us but Bills which may not come before us in the foreseeable future, but we have heard no ministerial statement that there is an intention to introduce such legislation. Therefore, we are acting without any specific knowledge.  Senator Byrne  said that he was talking to one of the parliamentary officers, but I do not think we can accept thai as any guide. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Does the Minister consider that the dried vine fruits stabilisation scheme which operated from 1964 to 1968 was administered in accordance with the legislation which was passed by the Commonwealth Parliament? Does the Minister also consider that the established business practices of packing sheds could supersede the legislation which was passed by the Parliament in 1964? Was this one of the main reasons why the dried vine fruit growers rejected the recent stabilisation plan for the industry? 
My question is  directed to the Minister representing the Postmaster-General and refers to the Australian Broadcasting Commission's regional station 5MV at Renmark, South Australia. Is it a fact that the station is underpowered and has such limited range that many people in the area who should be able to receive this regional station are unable to obtain satisfactory reception? Will the Minister have the matter investigated with a view to increasing the power and the range of station 5MV? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. 1 ask: Is it true that the Australian Agricultural Council's rejection of proposals aimed at curtailing excess egg production has shocked egg producers? Were the proposals accepted by the producers because they were aware that surplus egg production meant lower net returns? Was the rejection of the plan by the AAC a delaying tactic by the Government to allow the feed millers who now have a vested interest in the egg industry to build up large plants for egg production and establish themselves in the industry so that they can bypass the wheat quota restrictions and bc allowed to use as much wheat as they like for stock feed? ls it also a fact that production restrictions in the wheat industry but not in the egg industry are an indication of the unfair exploitation of egg producers by the big monopolies? Will the Minister consult the State Ministers for Agriculture far the purpose of arriving at a firm stabilisation plan for the industry? 
I address a question to the Leader of the Government. Is the Government aware that South Australian wine growers and wine growers cooperatives have expressed grave concern at the Government's decision to place an excise of 50c per gallon on Australian wines and that the application of an excise duty in this way will result in a direct restriction on sales as no wine movement will be allowed unless the duty has been prepaid? Does the Government know that this will suppress sales and depress the industry? Is it fully aware of the consequences of its action on the wine industry generally and particularly on the industry in South Australia? Has the Government given any consideration in the present circumstances to the grave threat that imported wines and liqueurs now pose to our local industry? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI am reminded that the import duty is at the same rate. Speaking in the generality of tariff proposals, not only in relation to wine but also in relation to anything else, where it is considered that an Australian industry is being injured because of importations the industry has at least the right to make representations to the Minister for Trade and Industry for added protection to be considered by the Tariff Board. 
 My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. In view of the fact that quite a large amount of wine sells at $1.50 a gallon an excise impost of 50c a gallon on that wine represents an increase in price of 33%. On imported wine priced at present at $4 a gallon duty of 50c a gallon will increase the price by only 12.5%. Does not the Minister believe that this is a discriminatory action which will react unfavourably against the local producers of wine? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. In view of the fact that earlier this year a referendum of fruit growers rejected a stabilisation plan for the dried fruits industry and proposed negotiations to discuss a new and improved scheme, can the Minister advise to what extent these matters have been determined? 
My question is  addressed to the Minister for Supply. Is it a fact that Australian troops in Vietnam have dried fruits included in their diet but they are supplied from America? As the Department of Supply buys dried vine and tree fruits, but not for Vietnam, will the Minister take steps to see that, if possible, dried fruits for our troops in Vietnam are supplied from Australia thereby assisting the dried fruits industry? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry aware that the South Australian Egg Board has to transport some of its eggs to other States for the purpose of pulping - a very costly process - because its own pulping plant does not meet the required health standards? Will the Minister confer with the Government with a view to having reconsidered the request of the South Australian Egg Board for a loan to build a new pulping plant? This request was previously rejected. If a loan is granted, the Egg Board will be able to build its own pulping plant, thereby saving the extra cost involved in processing eggs interstate. 
I join with those honourable senators who have congratulated  Senator Douglas  Scott on his maiden speech tonight. We look forward to his further contributions in the Senate.  Senator Douglas  Scott made his maiden speech tonight; my colleague,  Senator Jim  Toohey, last night made his final speech on a budget. I am sure that honourable senators on both sides of the chamber will join with me in saying how much we regret this. I thank him for all the assistance that he has given me in the years that I have been in the Senate. I take his place as number one in the Labor Parly team for the forthcoming election and I only hope that I can carry out my job as well as Jim Toohey carried out his. 

 Senator Laucke commended the Government on the Budget and then went on to criticise the Government for imposing the excise duty on wine. However I suppose it is only natural to expect that he will support the Government.  Senator Cavanagh  also mentioned the wine industry so I shall content myself by saying that the proposed excise duty will be a heavy blow not only to the wine industry but also to South Australia as a whole. The wine industry is vital to the economy of South Australia, which I have the honour to represent, and any adverse effects suffered by the industry will be felt throughout the State, lt has been said that people have a right to make a profit. The Labor Party has never chai- lenged that concept nor has it been opposed to profit making but it is opposed, and at all times will be opposed, to profit making by means of exploitation.  Senator Laucke  praised the standard of Australian welfare and mentioned our present economic standard but, like the majority of his colleagues on the Government side, he said nothing about the miserly 50c that the Government has given to the pensioners of this country. 
I support the amendment which has been moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy).  This Budget does not meet the needs of the Australian people. Although it may perhaps satisfy a minute section of the community, it will not benefit the community as a whole. In fact, it will make the lot of the Australian people much more difficult than it is. The Budget does not make any provision for an increase in child endowment. If the Government had seen fit to do something about increasing child endowment instead of reducing the level of personal income taxation on taxpapers in the lower and middle income groups I feel that it would have been more beneficial to the family man. 
 This may have been so. However, I feel that an increase of child endowment could have been more beneficial to the family man. As I have said before in this chamber, the family unit is the backbone of Australia. I feel that assistance to the people in the lower income bracket by way of increased child endowment payments would have given them a greater opportunity to better their standard of living than a reduction in their level of personal income taxation. 
Consideration should have been given also to people on fixed incomes. Their incomes are being whittled away by inflation and they have no means of redress. 1 agree with some of the criticism which has been levelled at this Budget, particularly with the Press description of it as a give and take Budget. It certainly takes more than it gives. I have already mentioned the miserly increase of 50c in the age pension. Honourable senators on this side of the chamber have pointed out, and it has never been refuted by honourable senators on the other side of the chamber, that the increase of 50c in the age pension will be absorbed by the extra costs which pensioners will have to meet as a result of the imposition of different forms of indirect taxation. One has only to look at the increased postage charges. The proposal is that the letter rate will be increased from 5c to 6c. Many pensioners like to write to their families. Most honourable senators in this chamber receive correspondence from pensioners who are either seeking some help or are thanking honourable senators for the help which they have provided. The increase in the cost of a postage stamp will mean that more than one-tenth of the increase in the age pension will be absorbed each time a pensioner writes a letter to his or her member of Parliament seeking information concerning, for example, some small benefit which might be available. 
All honourable senators know that the increase in the excise on petrol must have a bearing on the cost of living. The same applies to the increase in the sales tax on certain commodities. Everyone knows that pensioners and others on fixed incomes will have to meet the increased cost of living just as well as people who are receiving very high salaries. A pensioner who is a smoker and enjoys rolling his own cigarettes will find that much of his pension increase will be taken away by the increased excise on cigarettes and tobacco. When one looks at what has been given to the pensioners one must agree that they have been very sadly neglected indeed. 
Last night  Senator Toohey  spoke about the injustice suffered by a man who is eligible for the age pension but whose wife is ineligible because she is under the age of 60. Such a couple are obliged to live on the single age pension rate unless the husband is an invalid. If the husband is an invalid his wife will receive an allowance of $7 a week. However, a restriction is placed upon the wife if she goes out to work. The allowance of $7 a week is paid only if she is looking after her husband full time. It has been pointed out before in this chamber that it is very difficult for a woman - even a man - over the age of 50 to obtain employment. However, because a married couple are permitted to earn only $17 a week part time employment has to be found. This narrows the field considerably. Some men who are forced to retire on reaching the age of 65 have wives who are not eligible for the age pension. If these men have contributed to a superannuation fund or receive a lump sum payment in the form of a retirement benefit restrictions are placed on how much the wife can earn if she wants to work. 1 suggest to the Government that one way this sort of problem could be overcome would be to increase the permissible earnings of pensioners whose wives are not eligible for the pension. Also, if the wife's permissible earnings were increased 1 feel that she would have a better chance to obtain employment than she has under the present circumstances. 
I refer now to repatriation benefits, lt is claimed that the totally and permanently incapacitated war pensioner will receive an increase of $2 a week under the Budget proposals. According to my calculation a TPI pensioner will not receive the full $2 a week. I will illustrate my point in this manner: At present a single TPI pensioner receives $36 a week. If he receives the Service pension it means that he receives an extra $2 a week, which gives him $38 a week. Under the Budget proposals he will receive 38 a week but his Service pension will be decreased to $1.50 a week, which means that he will be receiving only $39.50 a week, an increase of Si. 50 a week and not $2 a week as mentioned in the Budget. A married TPI. pensioner whose wife is eligible for a pension receives $53 a week at present. Under the Budget proposals he will receive a total of $55 a week, which means an increase of $2 a week. The wife will not receive any increase at all. To say that the TPI pension rate has been increased by $2 a week is incorrect. When the amounts are studied, the increase for the single TPI pensioner is $1.50 a week and the increase for the married couple is $2 a week. I will not proceed further with comments on repatriation benefits. Many things could be said on the subject, but 1 think that the most opportune time to say them would be when the consequential Repatriation Bill is introduced. 
Honourable senators opposite have always complained about increased wages being the main reason for rapidly rising costs and prices. They blame all the ills of the nation on increased wages. In particular, they blame increased wages for the plight of the rural industries. 1 do not for one moment suggest that wages do not have any effect on increased prices and costs, because one would be very naive if one believed that they did not. On one hand one would be blind not to see that wages do have some effect on prices but, on the other hand, one would be equally blind not to see that wages are not entirely to blame. I draw the attention of honourable senators to the publication The Australian Economy 1970'. The article on page 12, under the heading 'Costs and Prices', bears out my contention. The article reads: 
Wages are the largest element in costs bin by no means the only one. Profit margins, interest rales, taxes and charges all have  a  direct part in determining cost levels within the economy and, proportionately, can do as much lo raise costs as wage movements. At times, also, external factors, such as export and import prices and exchange rate movements, can have considerable influence, in one direction or the other, on the domestic price structure. 
What will be said here abou: lnc effect which rising wages have had on prices in recent years is nol al all intended lo imply thai they have been solely responsible for the price increases which have occurred, ll is nol so. A good many oilier factors have contributed, larger profit margins probably more than most. Also any tendency for demand lo run lo excess quickly reflects itself in the elements making up costs but the directly consequential rises in wages are the symptoms rather l11 un causes of the prevailing inflation. 
From that statement one can see that inflation is not due entirely to increased wages. As f said previously, that is one of the factors, but inflation is not due entirely to rising wages. Honourable senators must always remember that most applications for a wage increase must go to arbitration. Anybody who has been connected with the trade union movement or who has put to arbitration a case on behalf of the wage earner knows that it is a very costly exercise. On the other hand, industry and commerce can increase the prices of their commodities any time they wish; they do not have to resort to arbitration, ls it any wonder that the wage earner today, who has only his labour to sell, takes advantage of every opportunity to try to improve his standard of living? In some instances he has had to adopt direct action before the claim is heard. 
 This is true. Members of the Government have not been able to justify the Budget. They have failed to answer the criticisms levelled at it not only by the Labor Party but also by many people outside Parliament. Even the Press condemned the Budget. The Government is very concerned about the ALP image. I refer to an article in the Canberra Times* of 27th August of this year. The article is headed 'Concern over ALP image by coalition*. It reads: 
Concern about developments in the Labor Party and about the apparent improvement in Labor's electoral prospects was discussed at a meeting of Parliamentary Liberal and Country Parties yesterday. 
Backbenchers called for a vigorous campaign by the Government parties to counter the favourable publicity which, they said, the Labor Party was gaining unjustifiably by presenting a false image of moderation. 
The article lists the names of the people who evidently participated in the debate. One of them was the honourable member for Ryan,  Mr Drury,  my namesake from Queensland, although he is on the opposite side of the fence to me. 
Nol really. The article continues: 

 Mr Drury (Lib, Qld) said Government Mi's should undertake a public analysis of the Labor Party platform and point out to the electorate that the Labor Party was as socialistic as ever. 
I do not remember the Labor Party denying that it was as Socialistic as ever. We still believe in democratic Socialism. That is contained in the Platform, Constitution and Rules brought down at the Commonwealth Conference of the Labor Party at Melbourne in 1969. The article continues: 

 Dr Mackay (Lib, NSW) said the Government Parties should make better use of Parliament as a forum for the exposure of the Labor Party, particularly in pointing up the co-operation between the Leader of the Parliamentary Labor Party,  Mr Whitlam,  and the ACTU  President, Mr. R.  J. Hawke. 
 His  contribution must have been left out of the report. There must be co-operation between the political wing of the Labor Party and the industrial wing of the Labor Party. I do not know what  Dr Mackay  was trying to prove when he said that the public should be informed of the co-operation between the two -  Mr Hawke  and  Mr Whitlam.  The article continues: 

 Mr Cairns (Lib, Qld) said  Mr Whitlam  was getting too much electoral credit for the attempted reforms in the Victorian ALP branch. Liberals should point out that similar reforms were needed in other State branches of the Labor Party. 
I can assure the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  that there is nothing wrong with the image of the ALP in South Australia. At present in South Australia the ALP has 6 out of the 10 senators and 8 out of the 12 members of the House of Representatives. 
We could do this. The article continues: 
The Minister for Social Services,  Mr Wentworth,  said that, contrary to the general impression, the Labor Party was going to the left.  Mr Whitlam  had unified the Labor Party by coming to terms with the left and by condoning strikes and disturbances. 
I do not think that any member of the Labor Party condones disturbances that cause bother to people and interfere with their rights. We condemn any demonstrators who resort to violence. We believe in peaceful and well disciplined demonstrations. I, like  Senator Toohey,  have taken part in demonstrations. The most recent one was the demonstration in Adelaide by the rural movement. That was a very orderly demonstration. But we would have no part of any demonstration that resorted to violence or upset the rights of citizens. The article continued: 

 Mr Jess (Lib., Vic.) called on the AttorneyGeneral,  Mr Hughes,  to 'make up his mind' about the prosecution of protesters who invaded national service offices and other buildings. 
We do not condone that sort of thing either. We believe that that sort of activity is outside the ambit of demonstrations. 1 believe that people who invade national service offices and other buildings should be brought to book for it. The article concluded: 
The party-room debate on the Labor Party followed discussion about whether the Government Parties should have tighter discipline in Parliament. 
I do not know whether a decision has been reached on that point. But despite the criticisms and abuse that are hurled against the Labor Party, the whole theme of this article proves that Government supporters are concerned about the image of the Australian Labor Party. 
I would go so far as to say that they are scared. This will be proved in the very near future when the Australian people have to make up their minds as to which Party they support at the forthcoming Senate elections. I feel sure that they will give credit to the Australian Labor Party for what it is doing, and will vote accordingly. 

 Senator LILLICO (Tasmania) 1 10.42] - At the outset I would like to say that 1 cannot commend too strongly the maiden speech that was delivered in this chamber this evening by  Senator Douglas  Scott. In my view he gave expression to the very highest principles when he said that freedom is a disciplined way of life. I could not help but think just how true that was. As he pointed out, there is a danger even in this country of organised defiance of the law, when people in public places and when prominent men openly advocate defiance of the law. Even the Premier of a State went fairly close to advocating defiance of the law. That freedom has resulted from the evolution of several centuries. One can look further afield to the United States of America and even to Great Britain, which has always been looked upon as being amongst the most sedate and law abiding of all the democracies, and see this attitude towards the law appearing to grow. It fills people like  Senator Douglas  Sott with a certain amount of foreboding that this attitude can and has reached its present stage. We all remember what happened in Italy and Germany before the war when things became so chaotic that for the very sake of law and order in those 2 countries dictatorships were formed, and disastrous results followed. 
I suppose that after a few years when one sees budgets, both State and Federal, come and go one becomes a little bit cynical. One newspaper summed it up very well, in my view, when it said that budgets have become a matter of universal execra tion. And that is true. One hardly ever hears anyone commend a budget. But, on the other hand, as the newspaper said, the mass of the Australian people demand endless benefits and they seem unaware that the taxpayer must pay for everything. In my time in Parliament, whenever a new tax has been mooted or an increase in taxation has been proposed, the Opposition, in particular, has branded it as being the most iniquitious, unfair and unjustifiable taxation yet devised by the wit of man. Of course, if social benefits are to be drastically increased, from where is the money to come to pay for them? It is to be noted that the Opposition has not advanced am proposal as to how taxation is to be increased commensurate with the benefits which it is always advocating in season and out of season. lt is true that there have been reductions in taxation for the middle and lower income tax groups. Of course, that has been branded as an inequitable proposition, that commensurately it takes too much from the lower wage earner and it does not take enough from those in the higher wage bracket. I believe that one could work out a dozen or 20 different ways to achieve just that end, but none of them would meet with universal approval. For my part I would sooner have seen more consideration given by the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  when this Budget was framed to allowing larger taxation deductions for the dependants of the taxpayer who has the reponsibility to care for those who depend on him. 1 believe that he should have been among the first to be considered in any taxation relief proposal. I believe that there is ample scope for increasing the taxation deductions which are allowed to such persons. 
I take note of the fact that the Australian Labor Party, in its amendment, stated that the Budget does not make any provision for the restructuring of stricken primary industries. That of course is true, because it cannot do that. Primary industries in this country find themselves in a difficult position, and I am in complete sympathy with them because I have been engaged in primary industry all my life. They are in this position because it is a world wide phenomenon, and there is no easy, ready-made cure to set the position right. It is all very well to refer to the restructuring of stricken primary industries, but it seems to me that that is something which is very difficult to achieve. This is something which must be approached after much consideration, and the Budget has set out in this direction. 1 should like to say of the Minister for Primary Industry that 1 believe that in  Mr Anthony  we have a man who is dedicated to his job, a man who is doing his utmost in an attempt to rectify the position of primary industries. The Budget contains some very clear cut provisions, including $29m for wool promotion and research, $2. 9m towards the costs associated with the price averaging plan which is now operating, $650,000 for research into presale, and so on. The Budget contains many things which in the aggregate will be of direct and special benefit to the primary producer. 
The primary producer is in his present position because of world-wide conditions, plus the fact that in many cases he has been costed out of production. Speaking for my own State, Tasmania has lost its potato industry because it has been costed out of that industry. It is in danger of losing its pea industry because it is being costed out of that industry. In fact we have reached the stage in Tasmania where it is nearly impossible to think of any crop that can be grown at a profit because costs are so excessive.  Senator Drury  mentioned that rising wages had been blamed for the inflationary spiral and for the increasing costs incurred by primary producers and the whole of the community.  His  remarks bring to my mind the thought that we hear so much about the paucity of the increase in pensions.  Mr Bury  has put out a statement which indicates fairly clearly that the increase in pensions redresses the increases in costs to pensioners since the last Budget was brought down. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
As an increased impost of 50 cents per gallon amounts to an increase of 33 per cent on the large volume of local wine selling at $1.50 per gallon and an increase of only 12 per cent on imported wine selling at$4 per gallon, is an added impost of 50 cents per gallon not a discriminatory tax against local wine producers. 
The changes in duty on wine announced in the 1970-71 Budget Speech do not discriminate against local wine producers. 
Prior to the introduction of an excise duty on wine, local producers were favoured by protective customs duties on imported wine, the most common rate of customs duty then being $1.20 per gallon. Higher rates of duty were applicable to some sparkling wines and wines with a high alcoholic content. 
When announcing the introduction of an excise duty of SO cents per gallon of locally-produced wine, the Treasurer also stated that there would be a corresponding increase of 50 cents per gallon in customs duties on imported wine. The duty differential in favour of locally-produced wine has therefore, been maintained at the same level as existed prior to the introduction of an excise duty on locally-produced wine. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
Why was Australia's first nuclear power station not located in South Australia feeding into the Victorian and South Australian grids. 
I present from 202 citizens of the State of South Australia the following petition: 
To the Honourable thePresident and Members of the Senate in Parliament Assembled. 
The petition of the undersigned citizens of South Australia respectfully showeth. 
That due to higher living costs, persons on social service pensions, are finding it extremely difficult to live in even the most frugal way. A parity allowance should be paid to pensioners in remote areas. 
We therefore call upon the Commonwealth Government to increase the base pension rate to 30 per cent of the average weekly male earnings plus supplementary assistance and allowances in accordance with the A.C.T.U. policy and adopted as the policy of the Australian Pensioners' Federation and by so doing give a reasonably moderate pension. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled, will take immediate steps to bring about the wishes expressed in our petition; so that our citizens who are receiving the social service pensions may live their lives in dignity and your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister forNational Development, upon notice: 
Has the Government or the Atomic Energy Commission considered the feasibility of installing a combined nuclear power/desalination plant at Chowilla; if so, what conclusion has been reached. 
My question is direc- ted to the Minister representing the Minister for Air. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to a report which appeared in the Melbourne 'Sun' on Friday last stating that an F111B fighter bomber had apparently exploded in mid-air, killing the pilot and co-pilot?If so, can the Minister give the Senate any furtherinformation on the crash? If not, will a full report be given to this chamber? 
The four Bills that we are discussing in this debate are the Excise Tariff Bill, the Diesel Fuel Tax Bill (No. 1), the Diesel Fuel Tax Bill (No. 2) and the Customs Tariff Bill (No. 2). By these Bills it is proposed to increase the excise on many items which affect all persons in the community. The greatest effect will be on those persons who are in receipt of fixed incomes and on those persons receiving social service benefits. If one makes an examination of the variety of goods which will be affected by these imposts one will see that the proposed increases are in accord with the Government's policy of imposing taxes on people, irrespective of their ability to pay. One has only to look at some of the items on which the tax will be applied to see the truth of this remark. 
In opening the debate on behalf of the Australian Labor Party  Senator Bishop  spoke about the effect that these imposts could have on South Australia, particularly within the motor vehicle industry. As was pointed out, every honourable senator from South Australia knows how important the motor vehicle industry is to South Australia and the influence that it has in that State. The impost of 3c a gallon on fuel, whether it is petrol, dieseline or kerosene, must have some effect on the vehicle industry in South Australia, especially when it comes at the same time as an increase of  2i  per cent in the rate of sales tax. That in itself does not seem to be a great increase, but it will add about $60 or $70 to the price of a motor car. Perhaps it will be suggested that an increase by that amount is not of much importance when compared with the price of $2,500 to $3,000 which is paid for a motor car, but 1 remind honourable senators of what happened when the 'rate of sales tax was increased some years ago. In I960 sales tax on motor vehicles was increased to 40 per cent and this had an adverse effect on South Australia, both economically and industrially. We know also that this rate operated for about 3 months only and that it was quickly removed on the eve of the Prime Minister's leaving to go overseas to attend to some parliamentary business. Before leaving on that occasion he announced that the tax would be reduced from 40 per cent to 30 per cent. 
I should like to cite some figures to show what effect the motor vehicle has on the economy of South Australia. At present 19,293 people are employed in the motor vehicle industry in that State. This figure does not take into account those people who are working in head offices outside of the South Australian industry or those engaged in selling or distribution. If these people were to he taken into account it would be found that the number employed would be  far  in excess of the 19,293. The same position applies in regard to the figure for salaries. An amount of $61,379,000 is paid to employees in the motor industry in South Australia in salaries and wages. This again does not take into account the people I mentioned previously, those working in the separate head offices or those engaged in selling or distribution. The value of the output of the industry in South Australia is 5275,908,000. This represents the selling value of vehicles at the factory door and it excludes all delivery costs and charges. lt may be thought that this increase of 3c a gallon on fuel by way of excise will have no effect on the industry, but it must have some effect because this increase will be passed on to the consumer. The consumer will have to pay it, and this will lead to the wage earner making application to the arbitration court for a higher wage. Of course, whenever this is done the cry goes up immediately that increases should not bc granted. In many instances the application is opposed strongly not only by the employers' federations but also by the Government itself on the grounds that it is not economic and will have an inflationary effect on the economy. Yet these excise imposts can be placed upon the economy and no regard is had to the fact that they are handed on to the consumer and that the consumer then has to have redress by applying for increased salaries to cover the extra costs imposed. 
These higher charges will affect not only the motor industry but also those industries producing consumer goods and electrical goods. South Australia is one of the main electrical goods producing States and relies almost entirely on its interstate sales to keep the industry going. We know what has happened on other occasions when increases have been imposed; the industries have suffered and an upsurge of unemployment has resulted in South Australia. Then something has to be done to overcome the situation. 
How will this increase affect people on fixed incomes? In the first place, I think a pensioner is entitled to have a motor car. Pensioners have been granted an increase of 50c a week, but they are asked, if they are able to run a motor car, to pay an extra 3c a gallon on the fuel that they use in it. If they use them very much it will not take long before the 50c increase in the pension is wiped out, and they will be further down the drain. This is also true in relation to people on fixed incomes. It affects them in the same manner. 
It affects the young people who are building homes today. To take my argument a little further, if one looks at the increase in the price of mineral turpentine which is one of the principal ingredients in -paint, one will find that it must increase the cost of housing. It could be said that it will not cost very much because the increase is only 3c a gallon. But when other charges are added to the cost of a gallon of paint, home buyers will have to pay substantially more. Many young people today are installing oil fuel burners for heating purposes. If a young couple cannot afford a drying cupboard, they will use their oil fuel burner as a method of drying their clothes quickly, particularly where there are young babies in the family and their clothing has to be dried quickly. This would mean that their oil fuel burner would be going practically all day and night. Of course, in these circumstances the consumption of fuel by these people will be much greater than for those who do not have an oil burner. This increased excise must have an effect on the people who are using fuels, and the extra costs will be extra money that must come out of their pockets. 
Where are they going to get it from? It means that they have to go to the arbitration court or to their employers to seek an increase in salaries to try to overcome these imposts. If any other honourable senator has had the opportunity, as T have, of going into many of the pensioners' homes, they will know that in the main these people, use kerosene burners. We know them in South Australia as fireside heaters. During the winter time these people keep their heaters going practically all day and all night. With an increase of 3c a gallon on kerosene that they use, it means that they will find it very difficult to cope on the increase of 50c in the pension rate that has been granted by the Government. I believe also that pensioners are entitled to a cigarette if they want it. The proposed increase in excise on tobacco will not affect me because I am a non-smoker, but it will affect those people who enjoy a cigarette. It will also affect those people who enjoy a glass of wine if they are able to afford it. Although pensioners have been given an increase of 50c a week, this is whittled away. This 50c increase in the pension will in no way measure up to the increased excise charges that they will have to pay. 

 Senator Bishop has spoken about the impost on wine.  Senator Laucke  mentioned this also. I will not delve into this matter at any length except to say that the wine growers in South Australia are very upset and very concerned about this impost of 50c on a gallon of wine. When putting a question to the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  some time ago I asked what would bc the difference between excise on wine produced in Australia and the duty on imported wine. When asking the question I also mentioned that the increased excise on imported wine would not be as great as it would be on local gallonage. So these sorts of things have to be looked at. I am sure that my colleague from South Australia,  Senator Cameron,  will speak further on the wine situation. 
I say again that these imposts will be handed down to the consumer. There is no posible way of getting out of it. When this is done, the consumer will then seek redress by applying for an increase in salary. Heaven knows that the salaries that many people receive today are very low indeed, anil something should be done to increase them. If they are allowed to be increased, it will affect industry. We know this. When imposts were placed on motor vehicles years ago it affected the industry in South Australia. We are very concerned about this. We are very concerned about the impost of 50c a gallon on wine. Although I believe the Minister did say that some relief would be given to the producers of wine in that the amount of the excise imposed would not have to be paid at the door, and that the Government would determine at what stage this amount would be taken from the producer, up to this point of time nothing concrete has been done on this. I believe that the industry has still to face up to the situation as it was proposed in the Budget. 
I do not wish to say anything further except that we in South Australia are very concerned about these increases. I feel that the Government, instead of giving people mere pittances on the one hand and taking them away in larger proportions on the other, should have another look at this proposal. When 1 spoke on the Budget I mentioned reductions of income tax. I feel that some wage earners will receive a. greater rebate than those on the lower rung of the ladder. I feel that those people on the lower rung of the ladder, because of these indirect imposts that have been placed on them by this Government, will be far worse off than if they had received no taxation reduction at all. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration. In view of the Prime Minister's reported  statement  at the weekend that Australia's immigration policy is morally unjust and the possible harm to Australia which may result from criticism of his statement, I ask: Will the Minister consult with the Minister for Immigration on the possibility of conducting an intensive publicity campaign overseas, particularly in those countries whose immigration laws ure more rigid than Australia's but whose criticism of Australia is the strongest, on Australia's immigration laws? 
 My question related to the reported statement of the Prime Minister that Australia's immigration laws are morally unjust. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Has the Australian Dried Fruits Association made a formal request to the Government that negotiations for a stabilisation plan for the dried vine fruits industry be re-opened? If so, can the Minister inform the Senate  whether the negotiations have been reopened? What stage have the discussions reached? 
I ask the Minister for Housing a question. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the report of the South Australian Housing Trust in which there is reference to the sorry story of the housing crisis facing old people in South 
Australia and pointing out that funds for the building of cottage flats were limited? Will the Federal Government provide more assistance so that more housing for age pensioners can be supplied, particularly for single elderly people? 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry been drawn to the extensive damage caused by frost to cereal crops in the southern Murray-Mallee area in South Australia? Experts have estimated that the expected barley yield of 3.5 million bushels will be cut to 500,000 bushels, that approximately 10 per cent of the sultana and wine grape crops have been affected and that the wheat yield will be affected. Will the Minister ask the Government to extend to the growers affected by this disaster the same assistance that is extended to those entitled to drought relief? 
 I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate whether he has seen the article in this morning 'Australian' in which the Victorian Employers Federation refers to what it describes as the plight of the rural sector? The Federation states that the number of people receiving unemployment benefits in the non-metropolitan areas is now almost twice as high in the country as in the city and rhat the rural economy is in an extremely grave situation, far worse than can be gleaned from statistics alone. What action does the Government intend to take to restore the rural economy, which is vital to Australia? 
I have not had the advantage of seeing the article to which the honourable senator refers but before the sun goes down no doubt I will. Nevertheless, as to the rural sector we did have a series of questions and answers last week in relation to recent statistics which were published and which acknowledged that whilst the unemployment percentage across the board in Australia was something less than 1 per cent - .9 per cent as I recall it - more significantly, there were pockets of unemployment in the rural areas. The honourable senator asked what the Government is doing in relation to the matter. The Government is aware of the problems of the rural industries but in the debate we have had it has been made apparent that many of the problems of the rural industries are international in terms of the price factor, rural production across Australia and across the world. Nevertheless the Commonwealth Government proposes to bring down certain legislation calculated to assist notably the wool industry. I hope that we will have an opportunity to debate the legislation in this place before the end of the week. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Health aware that in the last 5 years approximately 150 persons from South Australia, at great cost to themselves, have gone to Kassel, Germany, for oxygen therapy treatment for arteriosclerosis as given by  Dr  Moeller?  Is the Minister aware also that these persons had been told by their doctors that medically no more  could be done for them except amputation of the limbs affected, and that on return to Australia after receiving  Dr Moeller's  treatment these people have been able to resume a normal life? Will the Minister again have further consultation with  Dr Moeller  regarding his treatment and invite him to Australia to demonstrate his method? 
-I present from 274  citizens of the State of South Australia the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of South Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That due to the higher living com, persons on social service pensions are finding it extremely difficulty to live in even the most frugal way. 
We therefore call upon the Commonwealth Government to increase the base pension rate to 30 per cent of the average weekly male earnings for all States, as ascertained by the Commonwealth Statistician, plus supplementary assistance and allowances in accordance with A.C.T.U. policy and adopted as the policy of the Australian Commonwealth Pensioners Federation, and by doing so give a reasonably moderate pension. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate and the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to bring about the wishes expressed in our petition so that our citizens receiving the social service pensions may live their lives in dignity. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present from 139 citizens of South Australia the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate hi Parliament assembled. The Petition of the undersigned citizens of South Australia respectfully showeth: 
That due to the higher living cost, persons on Social Service Pensions are finding it extremely difficult to live in even the most frugal way. 
We therefore call upon the Commonwealth Government to increase the base pension rate to 30 per cent of the Average Weekly Male Earnings for all States, as ascertained by the Commonwealth Statistician, plus supplementary assistance and allowances in accordance with Australian Council of Trade Unions policy and adopted as the policy of the Australian Commonwealth Pensioners' Federation, and by doing so give a reasonably moderate pension. 
Your Petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate and the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to bring about the wishes expressed in our Petitions so that our citizens receiving the Social Service Pensions may live their lives in dignity. And your Petitioners as in duty bound will every pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-Is the Leader of the Government in the Senate aware that the Soviet Union is conducting a month-long series of missile firing tests in the Pacific Ocean from Thursday, 29th October, until 30th November of this year? Is the Minister also aware that sub-orbital rockets will be fired into a target area north east of Japan and that all air and sea traffic is being asked to steer clear of the area from noon till midnight during the period mentioned? Has the Australian Government been notified of these firings? If so, what action has been taken by the Government regarding this matter? 
I indicate at the outset that the Australian Labor Party does not oppose these Bills. However, I would like to comment on the States Grants (Special Assistance) Bill, which provides for the payment of a special grant of $5m to South Australia and St 3. 68m to Tasmania. I wish to refer in particular to the reason for this special grant of $5m to South Australia. 
When  Mr Dunstan,  the Premier of South Australia, applied at the Premiers 
Conference in June of this year for extra financial assistance it was denied to him. He said that he had been unfairly treated by the Commonwealth.  Mr Dunstan  had made a claim to the Commonwealth for the provision of $3m for specific purposes.  His  main reason for applying for this extra money was to meet education needs as well as to help to some extent the building trade, which was in a state of decline at that time in South Australia'. The money sought for education purposes was to be used to replace by more solid constructions the unsatisfactory temporary timber classrooms which dot many of the schools in South Australia. At that time  Mr Dunstan  also pointed out that he was making his claim at a time when the Commonwealth had allowed its public works programme in South Australia to fall to  a  fairly low level. In fact, it represented only 5 per cent of the total works programme for Australia. At that time the building industry in South Australia was on the decline. The South Australian industry was affected by the decision of the Commonwealth Government in 1969 to increase interest rates. It is history that the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton')  refused South Australia's request for extra money and told the State that it should go to the Commonwealth Grants Commission if it needed extra money. This meant that if South Australia were to approach the Grants Commission, the South Australian Government would have to introduce the same kind of taxes and local charges as prevail in New South Wales and Victoria, the two standard States. 
That is right. There was  a  remark in one of the newspapers about South Australia being treated like Oliver Twist. Moreover South Australia would have to adjust expenditure on services to the level of those two Slates. When one looks at all the circumstances and sees the repercussion that an application to the Commission would have, one realises that it would remove from South Australia its flexibility. South Australia has a sounder than average Public Service and a government with a very active social policy. 
When the South Australian Government approached the Federal Government at the 
Premiers Conference it was the only Stale with a Labor Government. It was the only State that had been refused additional assistance by the Commonwealth. Was this refusal a political one? The South Australian Government believes that it was. My colleagues in the Federal Parliament also believe that it was refused on political grounds. From information that  Mr Dunstan  received prior to or during the Premiers Conference, the indications were that South Australia would receive an extra $3m. This was refused. An article in the Adelaide 'Advertiser' of 29th June bears out the fact that the refusal was on political grounds. Referring to  Mr Dunstan,  the article states: 
The Premier said he did not expect cuts in public works, but the Government would have a tight Budget. 
He was satisfied that the Federal Cabinet had vetoed the extra $3m allowance for South Australia which had been recommended by the Federal Treasury. 
Mc had been told of this recommendation by Treasury officials and by journalists who had been informed of it by Federal Cabinet Ministers. 
He knew that certain allocations had been made to some States that had not been recommended by the Federal Treasury. 
He knew there had been Federal Cabinet discussion on the matter and that the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  had made 'a good deal of remarks' on what had happened at the election 3 weeks before. lt was dastardly that  Mr Gorton,  having given South Australia a poor deal previously to which the Slate had reacted at the poll, should now demonstrate his disapproval further. 
He felt  Mr Gorton's  attitude to South Australia had been one made in a fit of pique. 
I am quoting what the South Australian Premier,  Mr Dunstan,  said. The Adelaide 'Advertiser' of 27th June contained an article about statements made by  Mr Hall  the ex-Premier of South Australia. The article states: 
So far as South Australia is concerned, it looks as if  Mr Dunstan  was unable to get a big enough slice of the cake',  Mr Hall  said. '1 do not know the reason for Ibis. It may be that the South Australian case suffered because the election has meant a change of horses at the last stage of the presentation of our case." 
Yes. 
 1 understand that he is. Arising out of that situation, on 6th July South Australia was obliged to approach the Commonwealth Government for a special grant for financial assistance for 1970-71, under section 96 of the Constitution. Honourable senators will remember that in 1960 South Australia ceased to be a claimant State. It has been forced again to become a claimant State because of the parsimonious attitude of the Federal Government. The Commonwealth Grants Commission upheld the application of the South Australian Government and ordered an advance of $5m to be made to South Australia in 1970-71. That sum of S5m is about S2m more than  Mr Dunstan  as Premier of South Australia asked for at the Premiers Conference. In this context I shall quote from an article headed 'An Umpire to Balance the States' which appeared in the 'Australian' of 3rd September. It states: 
The Commonwealth Grants Commission has substantiated a charge by the South Australian Premier  Mr Dunstan  that he was unfairly treated by the Commonwealth at the Premiers Conference in Canberra last June. At the time  Mr Dunstan  claimed that South Australia, the only State wilh a Labor Government, was ihe only State noi to receive some additional financial help from the Commonwealth. He was only after S2m to $3m extra but he was unable to convince  Mr Gorton,  who suggested that if he was unhappy he ought to approach the Grants Commission for it to judge, by comparison with the finances of New South Wales and Victoria, whether the State deserved extra assistance.  Mr Dunstan  took the advice and lnc Grants Commission has now delivered its verdict: an extra 55m for South Australia this year, a conservative amount which more detailed arguments could push up next year. 
It appears from the articles 1 have quoted that the refusal of the Prime Minister at the Premiers Conference to give extra assistance to South Australia was a political move. We do not oppose these Bills, but I am sure that the political atmosphere will have to be removed from any future Premiers Conference. Articles similar to those 1 have quoted appeared in other Australian newspapers. The article in the Australian' of 3rd September to which I have referred went on: 
As a result of  Mr Gorton's  decision not lo give  Mr Dunstan  the money he deserved, the Commonwealth is now paying out more money that il would have, and  Mr  Dunstan's  Government has lost much budgetary freedom. This demonstrates the practical problems which result from the Premiers Conference being used for political purposes. Yet this is a problem of which  Mr Gorton  was aware at the conference . . . Referring the distribution of the grants to a neutral umpire would certainly avoid future charges of politic** bias- 
 Yes, it is. The article went on:  - whether of the kind which South Australia seemed to  suffer  this time or the more frequent deals which the Commonwealth arranges wilh a few States. lt would mean the Commonwealth and the States could confine their arguments at Premiers Conferences to establishing an overall level for Commonwealth grants. Most of (lie bitterness at ihe Conferences is now over the distribution of less than 1 per cent of the total. 
That is all I wish to say. I believe that the Prime Minister dealt unfairly with South Australia, and 1 hope that in future a different attitude wiill be adopted lo the States - not only South Australia - when they approach the Prime Minister or the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  for additional financial assistance. We support the Bills. 
Will the Leader of the Government in the Senate urge his Government to have a full scale and proper inquiry made to ascertain the financial needs of the Commonwealth and State police forces, both for the present and for the future? Will the Commonwealth make available to the various State governments specific sums for the sole purpose of meeting their commitments in this area? 
The honourable senator asked a question about an inquiry into the financial structure of the police forces of the Commonwealth and the States. He suggested that special funds should be made available to the State governments. Let me take the question in 2 parts. As to the Commonwealth, there are no problems at all associated with that. There is an obligation on the Minister concerned to have due regard to the needs of the Commonwealth Police Force. That is only a minor part of the question. I would think that that would be safely in the hands of the relevant Minister. As to the States, they all have sovereignty over their own police forces. Whilst I am sure that they would be happy to receive funds from the Commonwealth, I am equally certain that they would resent any intrusion into their responsibilities in respect of their police forces. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThere is a circumstance which, no doubt, has prompted the question. A special adviser was brought to Australia by the Victorian Government to give it advice in relation to the Victoria Police Force. As I read the headlines and some detail of the report, that special adviser has made a very comprehensive report and recommendations to the Victorian Government. 
Not really. 1 do not intend to canvass it. 1 am perilously close, as the honourable senator will appreciate. I believe that this is clearly within State responsibilities. Overall, if the Stales think that they have not enough funds for their services and they can obtain more from the Commonwealth, no doubt they will make representations. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. What action is proposed by the Government following the claim by spokesmen for the wine industry that sales of South Australian flagon and bulk wines have fallen by thousands of gallons, thereby creating a crisis in the industry, as a result of the imposition of excise duty on wine in the 1970 Budget? 
We of the Labor Party do not oppose these Bills. They deal with an important part of primary production. The dried fruits industry has been suffering for many years, on overseas as well as local markets. It is time that something is done to help this important industry. It is an important industry to South Australia. Many settlers on holdings in South Australia along the upper Murray as far as Renmark and even further depend on the dried fruits industry for their living. This scheme was set up as part of the rehabilitation project after World War II when soldier settlers were granted properties in the area of the upper Murray. Those people have had to contend not only with seasonal problems but also with problems involved in the organisation of the scheme. I appreciate that that point is not particularly relevant to the Bills before us but I feel I should point out that the people established under the war settlement land settlement scheme are working under certain conditions. 
Sitting suspended from 12.45 to 2.15 p.m. 
 Prior to the suspension of the sitting I v/as saying how important the dried fruits industry was to rural 

 Dried Fruits Research Bill 713 industry as a whole and particularly to South Australia. In his second reading speech the Minister mentioned the importance of the industry to the economy of Australia. I also point out that most of the growers, particularly those in South Australia, were allotted land under the war service land settlement scheme after the First World War and after the Second World War. I may be getting a little away from the ambit of the Bill but because it concerns dried fruit growers, I think it is important to mention that the war service land settlement scheme ran into quite a number of difficulties and thereby the difficulties of the growers were increased. Every honourable senator has been approached by these people to see whether some assistance could be provided. 
 No, I am talking about the growers in South Australia whose properties border the Murray River as far as Renmark. These people came under the war service land settlement scheme. 
Yes, and they had to cope with the burden of increasing costs. I feel sure that this had an effect on production because the settlers became a little disheartened. Of course, this .was only one of the factors which contributed towards the ultimate plight of this industry. After the First World War these men were allotted holdings of between 17 and 20 acres. At that time that average was probably quite sufficient for these men to produce crops and to make a decent living, but as costs rose and as the price of fruit decreased in some instances, and because of the adverse climatic conditions under which they worked, it was found that a holding of this size was not sufficient. For this reason, and because of changing living habits, I feel that the size of these holdings should be looked at. I think the matter warrants very serious consideration. 
Growers of dried fruits as a whole experience unfortunate fluctuations. As I mentioned previously, they experience devastating seasonal conditions and, on top of this, they have to export the bulk of their crop. 1 April 1971 
Only about 20 per cent of the fruit produced is sold on the Australian market. The income of the growers from these sales is much greater than they receive for the 80 per cent of their crop which is exported overseas. I believe that this Bill, which provides for the establishment of a dried fruits research trust account, could help the industry to some degree. However, I think the Government must also investigate the ways and means by which these people can be assisted. 
We all know that in 1963. I think it was, the Government instituted a stabilisation plan for the industry, lt was not a success. When that stabilisation scheme ran its course the fruit growers were given the opportunity to vote on whether they would like another stabilisation scheme instituted. They rejected that proposal because they felt that the previous scheme had let them clown badly. A lot of the blame has been laid at the door of the people who marketed the dried fruits. A lot of the blame has been attributed to the growers themselves. But the growers were so fed up at the time that when the new proposal was put to them they voted against it. One of the reasons given for the defeat of the proposal was that not all the growers took advantage of the opportunity to cast a vote, and that only a minority actually voted against the scheme. 
I believe that this research trust account will help the growers. But I believe that something more should be done. I have been informed, in answers to questions which I have asked, that the Minister for Primary Industry is negotiating at the moment for the re-opening of talks with the growers in regard to a further stabilisation scheme. I am sure that if such a proposal is pui to the growers they will vote for il and thereby bring some stability into the industry. The plight of the industry has been caused not so much by falling prices as by rising costs. Like most of the primary producers, these people cannot pass increased costs on to anybody. They have to bear the brunt of them themselves, and as their income decreases their living standards suffer. This measure is a step in the right direction, and I believe that it will help the fruit industry. However. I urge the Minister for Air to ask the Minister for Primary Industry to re-open the negotiations for the introduction of another sta bilisation plan. I feel that this is what the growers want. They need some form of statutory marketing board, and they have asked for this from time to time. I feel that if this request is granted the plight of some of them will be relieved and I feel sure that the state of the industry will improve. Although it is not impossible for us to increase our sales of dried fruits on the overseas markets, we have met with a great deal of competition in this field. L believe that Turkey is moving more and more into this field and is now exporting much of its production overseas. 
I can recall an instance some time ago when a colleague from South Australia asked a question about the quantity of dried figs which was being imported into Australia at that time. He circulated samples of these dried figs. They did not meet with a very good reception from honourable senators, particularly those who wear dentures, because the number of seeds in the figs caused a little discomfort. At that time quite a number of growers, particularly those in South Australia, were growing figs for drying purposes. There was an influx of the Turkish product. From memory, I believe that there was a Tariff Board hearing on this. A tariff was placed on the imported figs. I do not think that had a great bearing on the amount that was being imported. Consequently, many growers along the River Murray in South Australia stopped growing figs. Last time I was in the area very few growers were growing figs for drying purposes because they found it was uneconomic. They had turned their endeavours to other forms of fruit growing. 
The Labor Party does not oppose the Bills. We hope that they will do something to help the industry. We hope that the work will be carried on in the manner in which it should be carried on. Consideration should be given not only to all aspects of dried fruits but also to all aspects of fruit growing in the industry. I am sure that the industry can come up with something that will be of great assistance not only to the growers but to the Austraiian economy as a whole. 
 My question is directed to the Minister for Air. Is it a fact that spare parts for the jinxed F111 fighter bomber are being returned from Australia to America? What was the total cost to Australia of the spare parts being returned? Will Australia pay the cost  of  returning the spare parts? What will be the amount, if any, of rebate to Australia for the parts returned? What is the reason for the return of the spares? What are the means of transport to return them and does their return mean that Australia will not take delivery of the F111 aircraft? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Health, ls it a fact that age pensioners will be charged by the hospital funds 46c per week as against the sum of SI -80 per quarter which was charged previously for hospitalisation in other than public wards in hospitals? As this increase will almost absorb the 50c per week recently granted to pensioners and as it will impose further hardship upon them, will the Minister consult with the Government with, a view to increasing the present subsidy from $2 per day. This would save the pensioners from having this further burden placed upon them. 
My question is directed to you,  Mr President;  I ask: Has your attention been drawn to the editorial which appeared in the 'Canberra News' yesterday concerning a speech made in the other place by the honourable member for Banks,  Mr Martin,  on Tuesday last regarding the pay - fates and conditions of attendants employed in Parliament House? Will you,  Sir,  consult  Mr Speaker  in the other place for the purpose of discussing the pay rates and conditions of the attendants so that they can be upgraded and brought into line with the pay rates and conditions that apply to other employees in Australia? 
The PRESIDENY-1 will confer with  Mr Speaker  on this matter. I should point out that  Mr Speaker  and 1 have been the ones who consistently raised wages whenever we could throughout Parliament House. Therefore, the subject matter of the honourable senator's question is not falling on unsympathetic ears. However, I will consult  Mr Speaker  on this matter. I know that there are some difficulties at the moment. 
Has the attention of the Minister for Health been drawn to articles appearing in the Adelaide 'Sunday Mail' and in interstate newspapers which state that the Australian Medical Association has drawn up a secret plan which, if implemented, would cost the Government' millions of dollars a year and that one newspaper has obtained a copy of the confidential report? Has the Minister been supplied with a copy of this report and has he made a study of it? ls it proposed to phase out the present pensioner medical service and to place pensioners into established medical and hospital benefit funds at greater cost to the pensioners? Will the Minister ensure that any proposed scheme will not be to the detriment of pensioners and that any proposal will be suitable to them? 
I too would like to join in what has been said regarding yourself,  Mr President,  and the rest of our colleagues who are retiring from the Senate. To you,  Sir, I  would like to record my appreciation of the advice and assistance that you have given me over the years I have been in this chamber. I appreciate it deeply. I would like to mention that after 30th June I will be the only surviving member of the Australian Labor Party team that was elected in  1958  under the team leadership of  Senator Jim  Toohey.  1  feel that I must show my appreciation to  Senator Jim  Toohey, because I feel that it was because of his popularity, the high esteem in which he was held in South Australia and the workthat he had done for the Australian Labor Party that enabled me to be elected as the fifth candidate at that election. 1 thank  Senator Jim  Toohey for all the assistance and the help that he has given me from that time onwards. 
I would like to record my appreciation to  Senator Clem  Ridley also. These 2 men have been of great assistance to me. The Senate will miss not only  Senator Jim  Toohey and  Senator Clem  Ridley but also the other senators who are retiring, including yourself,  Sir, on  30th June. I wish each and every one of you the best of health and I hope that your retirement will be a happy one and that at times you will come back and see the friends you have made while you have been members of the Senate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
My question was to be directed to the  President  himself but I will be thankful if you,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  will convey my question to him. On 30th April I asked  Mr President  a question concerning the pay rates and conditions of attendants employed in Parliament House. I should like to know whether the  President  has been able to consult  Mr 
Speaker regarding this question. If he has done so, could he advise the Senate as to the outcome of their deliberations? 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Wood)  - The inquiry will be referred to the  President. 
Fill AIRCRAFT 
Has the Minister for Health seen the report of Professor Bryan Gandevia of the Division of Thoracic Medicine at Prince Henry Hospital about washing powders containing enzymes? Will the Department of Health examine this report with a view to implementing its recommendation that these washing powders should be labelled 'Keep out of the reach of children' because of the threat of respiratory trouble to allergy-prone children? 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Customs and Excise seen the figures for wholesale  wine  sales for the March quarter? Since these figures show a 9 per cent drop in sales, whereas up until now sales have  been  increasing steadily, will the Minister consider removing the SOc a gallon excise  on  wine which is widely believed to be  the  cause of the decrease in sales? 
My question is directed to you,  Mr President.  In the session prior to the winter recess I asked a question of the former  President, Sir Alister  McMullin, concerning the salaries and working conditions of Parliament House attendants. I now ask you: Has any increase in salaries been granted since then? If so, will it be retrospective to 16th June 1971? The attendants work 42 hours a week during a sessional period before overtime rates are paid and, during a recess,  32i  hours a week or 3 J hours short of a full working week, which could be easily absorbed during recess. In view of this fact, was any consideration given to having the attendants' work Public Service hours? If not, will consideration be given to granting Public Service hours to them in order to overcome the anomaly that now exists? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development. Was a thriving poplar plantation of approximately 2,800 acres in the Tumut valley of New South Wales offered for sale, on a worldwide basis, by the Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Authority in December 1968? Was the plantation sold? If so, who was the successful purchaser? What was the purchasing price and what were the terms of sale? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Services. Is it a fact that families of four or more children are penalised by a reduction in child endowment payment when the eldest child becomes eligible for student endowment? Is it also true that in a family of 8 children endowment is reduced from $57 a week to $46 a. week when the eldest child becomes eligible for the $1.25 a week student allowance, thereby losing $65 a year endowment? If this is true, was the reduction taken into consideration when the student endowment scheme was brought in and is this another instance where the Government gives the family an increase with one hand and takes more away with the other? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. As there are signs that peace talks between Russia and the West may at last be tegarded as possible in the not too distant future and in view of the Western response to the latest Soviet peace offensive, particularly  Mr Brezhnev's  proposal for a 5-power conference on nuclear disarmament, can the Minister inform the Senate whether arrangements have been made by the parties concerned regarding this very important move? If so, is the Minister in a position to make a statement as to what stage negotiations have reached? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. I ask: Is the Minister aware of the concern of the export sheep skin industry about the Commonwealth Government's wool price subsidy? I point out that primary producers shear all sheep before marketing them in order to obtain a maximum subsidy and that a skin with less than 2 inches of wool  is  of little value to a fellmonger because he must be able to market the fell wool as well as the pelt to make his operations successful financially. Is the Minister aware that if sufficient quantities of woolly sheep skins are unavailable Australian sheep skin exporters will find it difficult to continue? Because this industry earns approximately $50m a year in export income, will the Minister consult with the Minister for Primary Industry to ensure that everything possible is done to help this very important industry by way of a subsidy? 
Is the Leader of the Government in the Senate aware that official figures for the past quarter show a 2.4 million gallon decrease in wine sales and that, coupled with the 3 previous years' average growth of 2.5 million gallons, this shows an anticipated loss of 4.9 million gallons? Is the Minister also aware that the loss in sales is wholly proven to be attributable to the vicious wine tax? In view of this, will the Minister consult with the Treasurer for the purpose of lifting this tax, which is having such an adverse effect on the wine grape industry in South Australia? 
The honourable senator's question is directed to a matter that is part of the Budget debate; indeed, the Budget Speech which I read here makes reference to the wine industry. In those circumstances, I think any views the honourable senator wishes to express could be expressed more appropriately in the Budget debate, if he wishes to do so. 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Education and
              Science been directed to a stop press statement appearing in today's Sydney
              'Daily Telegraph' to the effect that in Hobart there will be a closure of 2
              Roman Catholic schools and a part closure of a third at the end of this year? Is the
              Minister aware that this is not an isolated case and that many Catholic schools in all
              States of Australia are closing and that, because of this, further strain will be
              imposed on government schools which already are in very serious trouble? Because of
              the Federal Government's increasing involvement in the education field, will the
              Minister implement the findings of the nationwide survey of education needs for
              non-government schools, which was commissioned by the Government for the purpose of
              seeing what further funds would be necessary to prevent the independent schools
              closing, and thereby prevent any further problems in government schools? 
Is the Minister for Health aware that since 1964 more than 170 sufferers from
              arteriosclerosis have been to Kassel in Germany for oxygen therapy treatment, as
              practised by  Dr Moeller,  at great expense to
              themselves? Is the Minister aware that in order to meet this expense these sufferers
              have had to mortgage their homes and borrow money? As all these sufferers were told by
              their own doctors that the only treatment left open to them was amputation of the
              affected limbs and all have returned from Germany with their limbs intact and able to
              lead normal lives, will the Minister give consideration to inviting  Dr Moeller  to Australia to demonstrate his oxygen
              therapy treatment? 
 I join with my colleagues in congratulating the honourable senators who have made their maiden speeches during this Budget debate. I am sure that all my colleagues will agree that this chamber will be enhanced by the participation of the new senators in future debates. I take this opportunity to thank the South Australian Branch of the Australian Labor Party for giving me the honour of leading the Labor Senate team in that State at the 1970 Senate elections. I thank the hundreds of supporters who distributed election literature prior to polling day and assisted in the distribution of how-to-vote cards at  the  polling booths. Without the willing assistance of such dedicated people it would be extremely difficult for any one of us to be elected to this Parliament. I thank the electors of South Australia for the support which enabled the Australian Labor Party to provide 3 of the 5 senators required to represent that State, namely,  Senator Don  Cameron,  Senator Geoff  McLaren and myself. I take the opportunity to congratulate  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack on being elected to the very high office of  President  of the Senate and also to congratulate  Senator Prowse  on his election as  Chairman  of committees. 
 The South Australian people always appreciate good South Australians. We have a Labor Government in South Australia at the present time. 
No, not entirely. The abortion legislation was introduced by a Liberal Attorney-General and was supported by people on both sides of the Parliament. 
 It was a free vote. In the Labor Party we have a free vote on social issues. But many members on both sides of the Parliament voted against the abortion legislation. Never at any time have I supported any abortion legislation. 
Much has been said from both sides of the Senate regarding this Budget. Government senators have claimed that it is a deflationary Budget. But, if one analyses it carefully, one comes to the conclusion that it is an inflationary Budget. A number of new imposts have been made. They will bear down hardest on the lower income earners, as indirect taxes inevitably do. Petrol, stamp, telephone, cigarette, medical prescription and radio and television licence costs are basic costs for any family. Not many families will be able to count on avoiding paying at least another $1 a week in meeting these new charges. 
The doubling of the income tax surcharge will not affect the lower wage earners to any great extent, although it will have some effect on them. It will have more effect on those in the higher income brackets. But the savings for the lower income earners will be far below the extra amounts they will be required to pay to cover the extra charges that have been imposed by this Budget. There is no financial security for the low income earners. Their inability to weather even temporary financial setbacks can be understood when it is realised that even if all is going well more than four-fifths of their income is absorbed in the cost of food and other basic necessities of life. Hardship arises when there is any threat to their financial security through a reduction of income. There must be a reduction of income when indirect taxation is applied to any wage earner. When some unusual demand is made on the family income there are no reserves to cover it because the family has not been able to put away any money for such demands or, as it is commonly known, for a. rainy day. 
I believe that one of the biggest single factors contributing to the hardship of the lower income earners today is illness. The increase imposed in this Budget in the charge for prescriptions will have a further effect on the low income earners. It will not affect me, or many thousands of people like me, in that at the present time I pay 10c for a prescription because I am a registered member of a friendly society and was registered before 1964. I think that was the year when the prescription charge of 50c was imposed. Because I am a registered member of a friendly society, my payment for an ordinary prescription is only 10c. 
I dare say that friendly societies will increase the payment but I doubt whether it will reach $1 per prescription which the low income earner will have to pay for his prescription. The further charges in this Budget must affect the low income earner to a greater degree than before thereby Causing increased hardship and allowing the low income earner no margin to meet contingencies that may arise during his lifetime. It is pleasing to see that the surcharge on income tax will not apply to those pensioners who receive the age allowance rebate. This is one part of the Budget for which we can be thankful. 
I must give credit to the Government for its consistency and its inconsistency. I draw the attention of the Senate to page 16 of the document entitled 'Budget Speech 1971-72'. It states: 
In the present context the object of any tax increase is to moderate development of demand and that can be done either by taxes on incomes or by taxes on spending - that is, taxes levied on commodities. The latter form of taxation has the drawback that it adds to prices. Taxes on incomes are more likely to be free from this consequence although it is sometimes argued that company tax increases eventually find their way into prices. On balance, the Government has decided to seek the major part of the additional revenue it needs in 1971-72 from taxes on certain company income and on personal incomes and the lesser part from increases in customs and excise duties on petroleum products and tobacco products. 
Analysing this statement carefully we can see that the Government has not taken into consideration the fact that the imposts will flow back into the cost of commodities. It is hard to accept that the Government could be so naive as to believe that the imposts that I have mentioned will not be added to the cost structure, thus having a big impact on the future prices of commodities and causing a further spiral in the inflationary trend. I feel that the Government should have consulted the Australian housewife before formulating its Budget. After all, with her experience of making the pay packet 'go round', the housewife has become a supereconomist without a university degree. I feel that a statement such as the one that I have quoted can come only from a government which, if I may use the term, is punch drunk. It is waiting only for the knockout blow which will be not long in coming. 
These charges will affect primary industry also. Members of the Government have claimed that very little criticism of the Budget has been expressed. I wish to quote one critic of the Budget. He has criticised the Government severely. I ask Country Party senators to take note of what he has had to say. I quote from a Press release issued by the Australian Dried Fruits Association and is dated 18th August of this year. The release is headed: 'A further nail in the coffin of primary industries'. The release states: 
This was how  Mr F.  H. Gill,  Chairman,  The Australian Dried Fruits Association, described the new Federal Budget. 
Speaking in Melbourne today,  Mr Gill  said that by increasing petrol, postage and telephone charges the Government had added to the already inflationary cost spiral. 
These additional charges will be passed on to the public by manufacturing and service industries', said  Mr Gill,  'and will certainly lead to demands by Trade Unions for further wage increases'. 
Again we see an example of the type of criticism that is levelled against trade unions. But people forget that the ordinary trade unionist must continually apply to Arbitration Commission for an increase in wages, which have been pegged since 1954. The only access that he has to any increase is to go to the arbitration courts. But merchants and commercial houses can increase prices without reference to arbitration whatsoever. The Press release states that  Mr Gill  continued: 
Primary industries cannot absorb such additional costs and a further reduction in returns to growers seems inevitable*. 
Only 2 things can give long-term assistance to primary  inrustries',  continued  Mr Gill.  These are increased export prices and reduced operating costs. The Government obviously has no control over the former and has now shown that it has little inclination to assist with the latter'. 

 Mr Gill then criticised the Government for continuing the excise on wine. I will mention this subject a little later in my speech. 
I turn now to the social service payments aspect of this Budget. A single pensioner will receive an additional $1.25 per week. Married pensioner couples will receive $2 per week, that is, $1 each per week. This increase will be dissipated largely by the imposts made in this Budget because, as I said previously and as others have said also, these costs inevitably will increase the cost of living. So, the Government gives to pensioners with one hand and with the other hand takes away from them what it has given. 
I bring to the attention of the Government one aspect of social services on which I believe some relief should have been given in the Budget. Priority assistance should be given to it as soon as possible. I speak of the pensioner whose wife is not eligible for a pension because of age, and who is not eligible also for a wife's allowance. It is true that an increase of $1 per week was granted in the Budget to those who are eligible for the wife's allowance under certain circumstances. Let me outline those circumstances. The wife of a person who is in receipt of an invalid pension receives, under the present Budget, $8 per week as a wife's allowance. The wife of an age pensioner who is totally and permanently incapacitated, or who has one child, receives $8 per week as a wife's allowance. 
Adding together the pension received by the husband and the allowance received by the wife we see that such a couple receives a little in excess of $25 per week. How on earth can that married couple be expected to live on that amount? It is difficult enough for a married pensioner couple to live on the full pension without the amount that they receive being reduced. Is not the situation doubly worse when the wife of a pensioner is not of pensionable age? She may be in her middle 50s or late 50s and has no earthly chance of obtaining employment. That couple must live on one pension of $17.25 per week. I think that it is time that the Government had a look at this category of pensioner to determine whether something can be done for these people. 
I turn now to the case of the wife who is eligible for a wife's allowance. The only reason a wife receives such an allowance is because her husband is incapacitated, is an invalid or they have one child- If that wife goes out to work, she is debarred immediately from receiving the wife's allowance. The amount of her earnings up to a certain level then is credited to the couple as income and it can affect the rate of pension that the husband receives. To expect 2 people to live on $25 per week is bad enough, but 2 people should never be asked to live on $17.25 per week. We are supposed to be an affluent society with high standards of living, yet pensioners are asked to live on that amount of income. I have been asked to relieve drivers working for the Meals on Wheels scheme. To see the plight of some of the people receiving the meals almost makes one's heart bleed. One feels in one's heart and mind that these people are only ekeing out a meagre existence and in many cases are simply waiting to die. One of the great tragedies of life is to grow old, and for old people there is a great deal of loneliness. We find when delivering meals for the Meals on Wheels scheme that old people will wait at their gates and talk to us on the way into the house, while we are in the house and all the way back to the car. They are talking all the time because they are lonely. I repeat that one of the saddest parts of life for old people is loneliness. 
I wish now to deal with child endowment. On 25th August I asked a question of the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood),  who represents the Minister for Social Services in this chamber. Although the Attorney-General assured me in his answer that I would receive a fuller reply in due course, I have not yet done so. I would like to have the information today, or at least before the Social Services Bill comes into the Senate. I will read from Hansard of 25th August the report of the question I asked and the answer I received. I asked: 
Is it a fact that families of 4 or more children are penalised by a reduction in child endowment payment when the eldest child becomes eligible for student endowment? Is it also true that in a family of 8 children endowment is reduced from $57 a week to $46 a week when the eldest child becomes eligible for the $1.25 a week student allowance, thereby losing $65 a' year endowment? If this is true, was the reduction taken into consideration when the student endowment scheme was brought in and is this another instance where the Government gives the family an increase with one hand and takes more away with the other? 

 Senator Greenwood replied: 
I am unable to verify, particularly as I only represent the Minister for Social Services - 
I appreciate that,  Mr Deputy President  -  the figures and the calculations which the honourable senator has used as the basis of his question. All I can say is that in the presentation of the Budget last week significant advances were made, consistent with the economy's capacity to bear them, in social service pensions and in endowment paid for the second child. In the circumstances, I shall refer the honourable senator's question to the Minister and ensure that he receives a reply in due course. 
When I asked the question I had full knowledge of the fact that child endowment had been increased in the Budget. However, I was seeking to find out whether large families were being penalised when the eldest child became eligible for student endowment. The people who raised this matter with me were sincere. They produced documents and payment cards to show that their child endowment had been reduced from $57 to $46 a week because the eldest child at 16 years of age had become eligible for student endowment, which is paid every 3 months instead of every month as is the case with child endowment. They had to wait until August this year to get part of the payment. After a lapse of 3 months they would receive full payment for the student child at the rate of $1.25 a week. I would like the Minister to let me have the appropriate figures and advise whether the basis of my question is correct. If it is correct, I feel that the Government should quickly ensure that the people affected have restored to them their entitlement to child endowment. 
I said earlier that I would refer to the wine industry.  Senator Laucke,  who represents South Australia, certainly spoke fully on the wine industry this afternoon. I believe he has clearly shown the Government the adverse effects of the 50c a gallon excise on wine and the results for South Australia. I wish to quote a letter which was written to the editor of the Adelaide 'News' and appeared in that newspaper on 30th August last. It states: 

 Sir. - As a winegrower I am deeply perturbed, along with many staunch Liberal members, at the Federal Government's aparthy  to the wine grape industry. 
The Official figures for the past quarter show a 2.4 million gallon decrease in sales. Coupled with the three years previous average growth of 2.5 million gallons, this shows an anticipated loss of 4.9 million gallons - a wholly proven fact attributed to the vicious wine tax applied in the 1970-71 Budget. 
As 25 per cent of all brandy sold in Australia is imported, the Treasurer could have raised the extra' money by imposing a tax on imported brandy as the primary producer has to pay unrealistic prices by way of tariff protection in everything he buys, to assure the city dwellers a reasonable standard of living in a tariff protected society. 
The growers are not asking for a hand-out like other industries. We are only asking for a square deal to let us stand on our own feet, without being a burden to the taxpayer. 
The growers received an average price of $62 per ton excise at 50c per gallon nets the Government $75, which being on excise has to be paid before it leaves the winery, not when it is sold. The time has arrived when the man on the land has to decide that any Government at all, is better what we have now. 
The letter was signed. As  Senator Laucke  has stressed, the excise has very adversely affected the wine grape industry. When honourable senators on both sides of the chamber have asked questions on this subject they have been told that the Government is watching the situation very closely, but according to the letter I have quoted wine sales decreased in the last quarter by over 2 million gallons. Surely that is too big a drop to be ignored and the Government has every incentive to determine whether the excise can be removed. If it were removed wine sales would be increased and the wine grape growers in South Australia would be assisted. 
Although I do not know, whether this is so, I think this might have been done as a taxation dodge. I am not familiar with the economics of these things, but this seems to be part of a trend that is occurring today. Not only do these people move into primary production but they are also moving into other industries. I do not know why they do this, but they must expect to make money from it. Possibly the only way in which they will ever make money from a takeover of the kind I have mentioned is by creating a monopoly, at which time they will be able to charge whatever they like for their product. So far the Government has done nothing about these takeovers. 
As the honourable senator has said, this has been happening in the poultry industry. I recall asking in this place whether the percentage of water in frozen chickens was exceeding the limit laid down as a permissible water content and I was told that the Government had made investigations but did not know of any case in which producers of frozen chickens were putting more water into the chickens than was permissible. But not very long afterwards legislation was introduced - I cannot recall whether in all States or whether in the Federal sphere only - to reduce and control the amount of water permitted in frozen poultry. 
That is right. I feel that this is not a good Budget. It has been criticised already. I feel that the further imposts that it makes on the ordinary wage earner and the pensioner will have very serious effects on them. Yesterday in this place I asked a question about arteriosclerosis, but I feel that the Minister for 
Health  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  might have misunderstood what I said. My question referred to the number of people going to Germany for oxygen therapy treatment for arteriosclerosis. I pointed out that about 170 people had gone to Germany for treatment, at great expense to themselves, and that after treament they had returned to Australia and had been able to lead normal lives. I feel that the Minister misunderstood me - he could quite easily have done so - because he said that he thought I had mentioned that these people had been cured. 
When I or  Senator Cavanagh  have spoken on this matter in this place we have not at any time claimed that these people had been cured. We have always stated that people who had undergone this treatment would need a booster treatment about once every 2 or 3 years, but that the reason for our anxiety in getting the Government interested in  Dr Moeller's  treatment was that we wanted to save people requiring treatment the enormous expense of going back to Germany every 2 or 3 years. I mentioned this yesterday and I know it to be a fact that many people have mortgaged their homes and borrowed money to enable them to go to Germany for treatment. If it is necessary for them to have further treatment, as surely will be the case in 2 or 3 years time, they will not be able to raise money and will be back where they started from. Each and every one of these people had been told by his doctor that there was no possible chance of further treatment for him in Australia, other than by amputation. Yet these people have gone to Germany, had the oxygen therapy treatment, come back to Australia and have been able to lead normal lives. 
I first raised this matter in 1964. An officer of the Department of Health visited  Dr Moeller's  clinic in Germany, but I feel that he did not spend enough time at the clinic to get a true picture of the treatment. He reported adversely to the Department and nothing more was done about it. I suggest that if the Government were to talk to some of these people or send Commonwealth medical officers in each of the States to talk to these people or examine the files relating to their condition before going to Germany and on their return there would be a change of heart- Perhaps something could be done to bring  Dr Moeller  to Australia to demonstrate his treatment. I reiterate that this is not a cure, but if we could save these people from having their limbs amputated it is something that we should all aim for. Considering the matter purely from a mercenary point of view, this would save the Government many thousands of dollars in disability pensions and would allow these people to live normal lives, which is an impossibility for them once their limbs have been amputated. I ask the Government to give further consideration to this matter because amputation has a psychological effect on people and has other harmful effects on their general state of health. 
I am not a medical man by any stretch of the imagination; I am relying merely on what I have seen and heard. People who have actually been to Germany for treatment have visited my home to inform me of the results of the treatment. In each case the person has been more than satisfied as a result of spending the amount necessary to go to Germany for treatment. Some of the more fortunate ones who have assets have been back to Germany 2 or 3 times. But all people who have been treated come back and are able to lead normal lives. Yet so many people who suffer disabilities in their arterial system have had limbs amputated. I suggest that it is time that the Government took more interest in this treatment and ascertained whether it could at least be demonstrated in Australia so that doctors here could decide, after seeing  Dr Moeller':  method of treatment, whether it was worth adopting in Australia. If medical opinion is that the treatment is no good I would accept that opinion, but until such time as it has been tried in Australia we will continue to press for it to be demonstrated here in the hope that people will be able to have treatment in each State of the Commonwealth instead of having to go to Germany at an exorbitant cost and with much trouble and hardship in order to have treatment. 
My colleague  Senator Cavanagh  yesterday mentioned education. In referring to this subject 1 remind the Senate of a question I asked yesterday in which I said that some independent schools in one State of the Commonwealth will have to close down at the end of this year. These are not isolated instances. This is happening in every State. I feel that something will have to be done about it because the closure of independent schools will impose a further burden on the State school system.  Senator Cavanagh  cited figures from the Minister of Education in South Australia, which showed that the education system had not been given enough money and revealed the sum that will be required to put into operation a system which will cope with the increase in the number attending school over the next 2 or 3 years. To bear this out I refer to an article which appeared in the South Australian 'Teachers Journal" of 25th August 1971. It reads: 
Commenting on the Commonwealth Budget last week, the Acting  President Mr F.  A. Woithe,  said that the only new measure introduced for education was an increased taxation deduction which would only benefit those people who sent their children to wealthy private schools. No one who sends his children to State schools, or to Catholic, Anglican or Lutheran parochial schools, will benefit,* he said. 

 Mr Woithe said that people who sent their children to these schools had been unable to claim the previous maximum deduction of 300 dollars, let alone the new maximum of 400 dollars. "There is additional inequity in this form of assistance, in that the return increases according to your taxable income,' he said. 

 Mr Woithe said that a survey conducted last year had shown that every Federal cabinet minister with school age children sent them to wealthy private schools. 
I could read further but I think that is sufficient to demonstrate the poor state of the education system in Australia today. I feel that the Government should have a firm look at the situation to see whether it is possible to introduce some measure of assistance to the States for education or to put into operation the report of the Commission that was set up by the Government itself to inquire into the needs of nongovernment schools. If the Government can save the non-government schools from closing down by doing this I feel that it would be doing a service to the community by not imposing as great a strain on the State education system as would be imposed if these schools had to close down. 
I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate a question. Will the Government direct the Reserve Bank of Australia to reduce interest rates as a direct move to combat the Government inspired recession psychology and to reverse the disturbing economic lethargy which is now affecting the nation? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI adverted to this matter recently when I think  Senator Webster  asked about the implication of the Reserve Bank interest rate as an instrument of economic policy. I have had my say on that subject and, therefore, I think I should ask that this question be put on notice. 
 I support the amendment moved by my colleague,  Senator Brown,  convinced that it should be accepted by the Senate. I would like to refer to one or two things said by  Senator Gair  and  Senator Webster  in the course of their contributions to this debate.  Senator Gair  spoke about  Senator Keeffe  saying that deserted wives had to resort to prostitution in order to supplement their incomes. I do not think that is entirely what  Senator Keeffe  meant I firmly believe that what  Senator Keeffe  was doing was to draw attention to the fact that what is being received by deserted wives with families is not adequate to keep them at a decent standard of living and that some of them - I think this is what  Senator Keeffe  said - had resorted to this activity. This is quite possible. Each and every one of us, as members of Parliament, from time to time have had deserted wives coming to us complaining that their pensions have been stopped or withheld. We have found from inquiries through the Department of Social Services that these payments are not withheld lightly. The Department makes extensive inquiries and I must give it credit. It makes every investigation possible to substantiate the reasons for withholding payments. We have found that some of these deserted wives have been living as de facto wives and that this has been the reason for them not being able to obtain the pension or for it being withheld. This does not imply that every deserted wife receiving social service benefits is doing this sort of thing. Nor does  Senator Keeffe's  statement imply that every deserted wife resorts to prostitution. I wanted to clear that matter up first of all. 
Next I would like to draw  Senator Gair's  attention to what happened at the last Federal Conference of the Australian Labor Party which was held in Tasmania. In the course of his speech he referred to the Labor Party's platform on abortion law reform. I want to quote from page  42  of the Labor Party's policy and platform where the policy on abortion law reform is set out. It states: 
This Conference recommends that the Party and its various groups such as the Parliamentary Parties should take a non-party attitude and vote according to their conscience on the issue of abortion law reform. 
This gives each and every member of the Australian Labor Party the right to vote on any abortion law or any social reform law according to the way his conscience dictates. This was proved in the case of the legislation on abortion introduced by a 
Liberal Attorney-General in South Australia, as I mentioned during my speech on the Budget. Many members of the Australian Labor Party voted against the Bill, including the  Deputy  Premier of South Australia,  Mr Des  Corcoran, and the Minister for Agriculture,  Mr Tom  Casey. Again I say that this platform gives every member of the Labor Party the right to vote according to the dictates of his conscience. Mention was made also of people who go overseas and in other ways spend money so that they may qualify for a social services benefit. In many instances it is not necessary for them to do this because of the conditions of the tapered means test. I am not entirely in favour of the tapered means test. 
I suggest that one reason why people spend their money in order to qualify for a pension is so that they may obtain the fringe benefits that go with the payment of a social service benefit. Probably the most desirable fringe benefit for a pensioner is security so far as sickness is concerned. I believe that at the moment our pensioner medical service does give them some security. It may not be all that they want it to be, but at least it does provide them with some security. They have the right to consult a medical man without cost. I suggest that many people spend their money in order to reduce their capital below the amount which would disqualify them from obtaining a pension and so do not become involved in the tapered means test. A married couple may have capital, in addition to the home in which they live. The home can be worth any amount of money. They may own the furniture in the house and there is no limit on the value of requisities within the home. They may have $37,000 capital in property or shares, or even in the bank, and still be entitled to a part pension, provided that they have no other income from a repatriation benefit, superannuation or annuities. I suggest that, under the tapered means test, not a great number of people in Australia would have to spend their money on a holiday in order to qualify for a part pension. 
I should mention also that income from money invested in property, shares or real estate is not counted as income. So a person with $30,000 may, if he so desires, invest the money in Commonwealth bonds, special bonds or hire purchase companies and not be disqualified from a pension because the income received from the investment is not counted as income. So there is not in every case a need for them to spend their money in order to qualify for at least some pension. I reiterate that probably some spend their money in order to qualify for the fringe benefits, particularly the medical benefits, which are available to pensioners but which do not apply to people whose pension comes within the ambit of the tapered means test. 
A married couple receiving almost  $70  a week are, if they have capital of less than  $800,  entitled to a part pension. Although as I have said  1  do not agree entirely with the tapered means test, it does help many people, except in the area of fringe benefits. I should like the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Greenwood),  who represents the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  in this chamber, to convey to the Minister the request that perhaps this aspect could be examined to see whether people who do not qualify for a pension under the tapered means test may have access to the fringe benefits. I have supported the amendment because I think it is a good one which will improve the Bill quite considerably. 
I should like now to refer to child endowment, a subject which I mentioned in the couurse of my speech on the Budget. In the Universal Declaration of Human Rights the United Nations declared: 
The family is the natural and fundamental group unit of society and is entitled to protection by society and the State. 
It lays down in article  23: 
Everyone who works has the right to just and favourable remuneration ensuring for himself and his family an existence worthy, of human dignity, and supplemented, if necessary, by other means of social protection. 
From that it can be seen that the payment of State and other assistance towards the maintenance of a large family is desirable. We all know why child endowment was introduced in the first instance. In  1941  the full bench of the Arbitration Court said that it could not differentiate between the single worker and the married worker with dependants and recommended that the legislature should introduce some form of child endowment to supplement the income of the married man with a family. 
As we all know, child endowment was introduced in  1941.  Since then it has been increased from time to time, and at each Budget time we complain that the increases have not been large enough. 
Theoretically there are many ways in which a family within the community may be provided with the normal material means necessary to sustain it. The normal means in Australia are provided to the worker through the minimum basic wage, which is supplemented by child endowment. Originally the basic wage was viewed as a social wage which was sufficient to meet the heeds of a man, his wife and  3  children, but following the basic wage inquiry in  1934  the Commonwealth Arbitration Court veered away from this earlier concept of the basic wage as a social wage and decided that it should become an economic wage which would be the highest wage that the court deemed that industry was able to pay. In  1941  the Chief Judge of the Court considered that on the basis of needs only the basic wage then operative was sufficient to provide only frugal comfort for a family unit of  3.  that it offered only a meagre existence for a family unit of  4,  and that if there were more than  2  children a family on the basic wage would experience hardship. The Court added, as I said before, that in determining the basic wage it could not differentiate between wage earners according to their dependants and suggested that the legislature should do something about bringing down legislation to help supplement the income of a married man with dependants. 
I mentioned in my speech on the Budget that in the case of a person who had more than  4  children, when the first child reached the age of  16  years and became eligible for endowment under the student endowment scheme the family would lose a certain amount of the child endowment. If one looks at the table which is part of the Minister's speech on this Bill one finds that a family of  8  would have received  $14.25  a week before the eldest child became eligible for student endowment, but that after the child became eligible for the student endowment the family would receive only  $13  a week  - $1.25  a week or about  $65  a year less than had been received previously. I asked a question on this subject and hoped to have a reply before this debate on the Social Services Bill, but so far I have not received a reply. The Minister set out in his second reading speech figures showing the rates of child endowment payable. Under the new scheme a family with 8 children under the age of 16 years will receive 17.25 a week, but if the first child becomes eligible for the student's allowance the amount received will be reduced to $16.25 or, in other words, Si less than the family would have received had the child endowment remained and the student's allowance not been paid. This is entirely wrong because the people concerned cannot afford any reduction in their weekly receipts. Many families depend on child endowment to help tide them over. After all, child endowment was introduced to supplement the income of the breadwinner with a family so that the family could improve to some extent its standard of living. 1 refer now to the February-March 1971 issue of the publication put out by the Institute of Public Affairs. It contains a table showing the minimum cost in 6 countries of keeping a family of 4. Australia is the third highest on the list. West Germany is the highest. In 1967 in West Germany it cost $A42 a week to keep a family of 4. In 1970 it cost $A73 a week, an increase of 74 per cent. In the Netherlands the cost was $A30 a week in 1967 and SA45 a week in 1970, an increase of 50 per cent. In Australia the cost was $47 a week in 1967 and $61 a week in 1970, an increase of 30 per cent. How on earth can people who depend on child endowment expect to maintain a decent standard of living if the payment is reduced? Although the reduction is only $1 a week, it means a lot to the people concerned. I ask the Minister to do what he can to have this anomaly rectified because there must be thousands of families in this position. 
In the June-July issue of the Institute of Public Affairs magazine it is stated that 1,750,000 families in Australia are receiving child endowment. Of that number, 8,000 families have 7 children; 3,000 families have 8 children; 1,100 families have 9 children; 400 families have 10 children and 200 families have 11 children or more. I do not mean to indicate that all those families come within the category I have mentioned of eligibility for the student's allowance. I do not have the figures on the number of families which would be penalised in that regard. The figures I have cited relate to families with more than 6 children. Some action should be taken to restore to those families the money they would have received under the old scheme of child endowment. 
I have received through the post what appears to be a roneoed letter which was signed by a  Mr Derek  Stone and addressed to the editor of the Hobart 'Mercury'. The letter contains several figures, some of which I will read to the Senate. Under the heading 'Child endowment anomaly'  Mr Stone  has this to say: 
Child endowment is a very small social security payment designed to partially offset the financial penalties of having children. The principle appears to be the more the children, the more the assistance given per child. The Commonwealth Department of Social Services has assured me of the accuracy of the following situation: Under the new rates payable per month of 28 days (a) for a family with 8 wholly supported children, when the eldest school child turns 16 the endowment cheque drops by $7. 
 No, this is for a period of 28 days. The letter goes on: 
For the family of 2 wholly supported children, when the eldest school child turns 16 the endowment cheque rises by $2. 
That illustrates the difference between a small family and a large family. The smaller the family, the more you get; the larger the family, the less you get. I should like the Minister to use his endeavours to have the scheme in relation to child endowment altered. 
During the Budget debate I. like other honourable senators, mentioned the situation of the wife of a pensioner who, because of age, is not eligible to receive the wife's allowance. Although the wife's allowance has been increased by the Budget to $8 a week, the pensioner and his wife still receive only $25.25 on which to live. Two people will find it very difficult to live on that amount of money. A pensioner whose wife is not eligible for the wife's allowance will receive, unless he is getting superannuation or some other income, perhaps by way of war pension, only $17.25 a week. Imagine 2 people trying to live on $17.25 a week. Something should be done to rectify that position. It is true - I think an honourable senator mentioned it this afternoon - that perhaps the wife could be eligible for an invalid pension. It would be a matter for the Department of Social Services or a Commonwealth medical officer to decide whether the wife was eligible for an invalid pension or whether she could resort to the unemployment benefit. 
That is right. That applies through the whole sphere of invalidity so far as social services are concerned. The wife perhaps can register for unemployment benefit which I understand is SIO a week. That would bring the total income to $27.25 a week. But suppose the woman was between 50 and 60 years of age. Firstly, it would be difficult for the Department of Labour and National Service to place her in employment. Secondly, it would be difficult for her to go out to work. Surely no-one would expect a woman, after having reached 50 years of age, to have to go to work to maintain a decent standard of living because her husband is receiving a pension. If she is offered a certain number of jobs and refuses to take one there is a possibility - I know that this is not done but it could be done - that she would not be paid even the unemployment benefit. Those are 2 points that I wish to bring before the Senate this afternoon. I know that we want to get this Bill to the Committee stage as quickly as possible. So, that is all I have to say on it. 1 hope that  Senator Greenwood  will convey to the Minister for Social Services the 2 points I have raised so that some action can be taken to rectify the anomalies. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service. With the proposed reduction in national service training from 2 years to 18 months and in Citizen Military Forces training from 6 years to 5 years, can the Minister inform the Senate whether personnel who volunteered to serve in the CMF for 6 years in lieu of 2 years' national service training and who have served tor 5 years or more will be permitted to resign after 5 years' service? Will they be automatically discharged or will they have to serve the full 6 years? 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Has the Australian Meat Board's annual report for the year ended 30th June 1971 disclosed the potential threat of meat substitutes to the Australian meat industry as a competitor which could have an adverse effect on the future of this industry? Did the Australian Meat Board recommend to the Minister earlier this year that it would be desirable that uniform labelling be introduced to ensure that the word 'meat' should not legally appear on any package unless the package contained a recognised animal meat product? If so, can the Minister inform the Senate as to what action has been taken by the Government and the stage that that action has reached? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry whether he is aware that South Australia faces a surplus of between 6,000 and 20,000 tons of fruit juice oranges which poses a threat to the stability of prices in South Australia? To rectify this situation more promotion of citrus fruit in the fresh and juice form is required. As this can be done only on a Federal basis by the setting up of a Federal citrus board, which would be strongly supported by the Citrus Organising Committee, and as this industry is vital to South Australia, will the Minister consult with the Citrus Organising Committee for the purpose of investigating the possibility of setting up such a board? 
asked the AttorneyGeneral, upon notice: 
Have visits to outback centres in the Northern Territory by stipendiary magistrates been stopped as a result of the Government's austerity campaign; if so, does this mean that prisoners and witnesses must be brought to Darwin at many times the cost of flying out a magistrate. 
Does the Minister agree that justice is something not so superficial that it should be jettisoned in order to save a few dollars; if so, will he order these outback visits to be resumed immediately. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development. Is the Minister aware that the South Australian Government was deeply disappointed that the Commonwealth was not prepared to provide financial assistance for the LockKimba pipeline, which would relieve the acute shortage of water in the Kimba area and would benefit farmers over an area of about 1,000 square miles? Is the Minister aware that if the Commonwealth continues in its refusal to assist the people living in this area the State Government will go ahead with the pipeline? Is the Minister also aware that if this project is left to the State of South Australia the project will take much longer than the 6 or 7 years in which it could be completed if financial assistance was forthcoming from the Commonwealth? Will the Minister consult with the Prime Minister for the purpose of having the necessary finance made available so that the service can be given to the people of Kimba as quickly as possible? 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Will the Government direct the Reserve Bank of Australia to reduce interest rates as a direct move to combat the Government-inspired recession psychology, and to reverse the disturbing economic lethargy now affecting the nation. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe Acting Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The present pattern of interest rates and other aspects of monetary policy are parts of our eco nomic policy which has been designed to secure stability consistent with growth. As always the Government is maintaining a close and continuous examination of developments in the economy and will be guided accordingly so far as future policy is concerned. 
1 ask the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service: On 30th September I asked whether because of the alteration to the National Service Act personnel who elected to serve for 6 years in the Citizen Militray Forces in lieu of 2 years national service training would be discharged after 5 years service, whether they would be permitted to resign, or whether they would be automatically discharged. Has any decision been made on this matter? Can the Minister say what will happen as far as these lads are concerned? 
The Bill we are about to discuss is one which will amend the Live-stock Slaughter Levy Act 1964-1968. I state at the outset that the Opposition does not oppose the passage of the Bill. It provides for the extension, for a further 3 years from 1st January 1972 to 31st December 1974, of a special levy on the slaughter of livestock. This levy is imposed in order to provide finance for the operations of the meat industry and to permit the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation to carry out its work in connection with the meat industry. I might say that I think many of us lose sight ot the great work that is done by the CSIRO not only in this field but also in many other parts of the primary industry field. I think that all credit should be given to the CSIRO for the manner in which it has carried out its job in the past. From my point of view, the members of that Organisation are unsung heroes. I believe that they have played a very important part in placing production not only in the meat industry but also in other primary industries on a very high footing in Australia, and also in overcoming some of the problems that have faced these industries. 
I would like to touch on a problem that worries not only myself but, I believe, every member of the Parliament. This is the increase in the production of synthetic meats that has taken place over the last 2 or 3 years. If we cast our minds back, we can realise just what part synthetics have played in the field of primary industry. I refer particularly to man-made fibres and the effect they have had on the wool industry. I can recall that 10 or 12 years ago, when we were discussing a Bill in this chamber - I think it was in regard to wool - the matter of synthetics was raised. I do not think we realised at that time just how important synthetics would be and the harm they could do to the wool industry. I felt that we took the matter a little too lightly, although many honourable senators from both sides of the chamber spoke about synthetics. I thought we could have taken greater pains really to go into what would be the repercussions of the introduction of man-made fibres. 
Although the production of synthetic meats is only comparatively small, I hope that we do have a close look at what effect it could have on the meat industry in Australia, particularly in regard to beef. We all know the great part that science and technology have played in producing synthetics. They will continue producing synthetics and will continue to play a very important part. I feel that this is something that we have to watch very closely in order to make sure that we are able to cope with this threat to the meat industry. I do not suggest for a moment that we could possibly stop the production of synthetic meats. But at least we could do something about controlling imports into Australia and we may be able to control or to place some restrictions on the labelling of this type of commodity. I will quote from the annual report of the Australian Meat Board in a few moments. I believe it shows that the Board is concerned and has made certain recommendations regarding the labelling of synthetic meats. I am also aware that perhaps this cannot be done on a Federal basis to the extent to which we would like to do it because it might cut across the jurisdiction of the States. I feel that something should be done in consultation with the States regarding the labelling of any product that does not contain any meat whatsoever. 
Reports regarding the production of synthetic meats show that they have a very high protein value. Some of the people who support synthetic meats say that their nutrition value as far as protein is concerned is as high as that of beef. We all know of the large protein content and value of soya bean and that it forms the basis of the manufacture of synthetic meats. Again, it is thought that the protein value of soya bean is higher than that of beef. Because this synthetic meat can be manufactured on a large scale, probably it will be sold at a much cheaper price than beef and therefore more of it will be produced. However, I believe that the problems relating to the taste of these synthetics have not quite been overcome. I think advanced technology and science will overcome those problems in a short time. Once people become used to the taste of the synthetic product it may be very difficult, because of the price, to get them back to buying beef and other meat products. We all know what happened with butter; synthetics made inroads into butter sales Also, we know what has happened with wool. I think we are faced with a problem in the meat industry and that something should be done about it. 
In its annual report, at page 12, the Australian Meat Board made certain recommendations about what should be done. On 30th September I asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary 
Industry the following question about synthetic meat as reported at page i011 of the Senate Hansard: 
Has the Australian Meat Board's annual report for the year ended 30th June 1971 disclosed the potential threat of meat substitues to the Australian meat industry, as a competitor which could have an adverse effect on the future of this industry? Did the Australian Meat Board recommend to the Minister earlier this year that it would be desirable that uniform labelling be introduced to ensure that the word 'meat' should not legally appear on any package unless the package contained a recognised animal meat product? If so, can the Minister inform the Senate as to what action has been taken by the Government and the stage that that action has reached? 

 Senator Drake-Brockman replied and said: 
Yes, I saw the annual report by the Australian Meat Board. The report stated that the Board was conscious of the threat being posed by the development of synthetic or imitation meats. It was making every endeavour to alert the industry to the dangers of this development. It made the point that immediate legislation was desirable to prevent the use of the word 'meat' in connection with the importation, manufacture or sale of any product other than a recognised meat product. 
The Minister went on to say: 
In April of this year the Australian Meat Board and the Minister for Primary, Industry wrote to the State Ministers responsible for primary industry asking them to examine their respective legislation concerning the labelling and description of such products to ensure that the misdescription with respect to the use of the word meat' does not occur. Currently, the States are reviewing their legislation. The Federal Minister for Primary Industry is in the process of writing to the Minister for Customs and Excise to seek an examination of relevant import regulations to ensure correct labelling of imports of imitation or synthetic meats. 
If one looks a little further into the Meat Board's report one sees what progress has been achieved in the manufacture of these synthetic meats. At page 81 of its report the Board presents a figure representing what the Japanese have done regarding synthetic meats. Under the heading 'Meat Substitutes' the Board states: 
Figures published recently in Japan, show that total production of vegetable protein material ('man-made meat') increased from 12,141 tons in 1968 to 24,217 tons in 1970. The publication source stated that most of this material was used as a blending ingredient in processed meat products. 
I was interested to read an article in the Adelaide Chronicle' of 22nd October this year in which Professor Edwards, head of the Department of Food Technology, at the University of New South Wales, was reported as having said: 
Fabricated products with the appearance of meat have gone so far as to simulate turkey slices with their own plastic wishbones. 
I do not know whether people would want to eat plastic wishbones but, according to him, they are simulating poultry. If they can do that then eventually they will be able to simulate meat in the same way. The report continued: 
Professor Edwards, head of the University of New South Wales Department of Food Technology, said this in an exposition of the status of simulated meats to the annual conference of the Australian Chicken Meat Federation in Sydney. Virtually, all US production of these materials prepared from non-meat sources was based on soybeans. 
Further on the article mentions figures relating to the consumption of this sort of thing and the extent to which it has increased in the last couple of years. The article went on to say: 
Professor Edwards said he understood that a local agent for US isolate sold about  10  toss a month to local industry for use in manufactured meats in concentrations of 1 to 2 per cent. US materials included comminuted products which had found their way into hamburgers, sausages and meat loaves. A variety of meatlike pieces had been used in packet soups, canned stews and casseroles. 
It is estimated that the consumption of soybean protein products competing directly with meat rose from 30 million lb in 1967 to 50 million lb in 1969,' Professor Edwards said. 
This shows how far this sort of thing has gone in just a short time. Something should be done about it and done quickly. 
I do not want to delay the Senate for any great length of time. Although overall our meat exports for 1970-71 were about the same as for the previous year we know that our exports to the United States were down a certain percentage, particularly in the case of mutton. I think our mutton exports were about 30,800 tons less than in the previous year and that our beef exports were down not quite as much. Despite this the United States remains the greatest importer of Australian beef. I dare say there is a reason why mutton exports were down so far. At page 68 of the Australian Meat Board's report there is set out the tonnage of our meat exports to North America and the variation in the different meat products. The volume of meat  exports fell by 21 per cent. The figures show that our beef exports fell by 30,708 tons and mutton fell by 37,897 tons. To my way of thinking these are large reductions but there could be some reason for them. Perhaps there were some import restrictions operating against American buyers or restrictions on our abattoirs which caused the figures to be down in that year. 
That is all I propose to say about this measure. The Opposition does not oppose the Bill but we ask the Minister to look closely at the threat that synthetic meats pose to our meat industry and the possibility that they will become a great proportion of the meat sold throughout Australia and the world. 
Has the attention of the Minister for Health been drawn to the recommendations of the South Australian  branch of the Australian Medical Association concerning smoking and health, particularly the recommendation to abolish all forms of cigarette advertising and the recommendation to print health warnings on all cigarette packets? 
Yes, my attention has been drawn to the views expressed. I would imagine that they will be conveyed to me in more precise terms than 1 have read them so far in one of the journals. The views expressed are consistent with opinions voiced at other levels by other groups and organisations. I think I have answered similar questions in this place by indicating that it seems to me, to the Government and to my Department that there is indeed a necessity to have a high degree of uniformity in Australia in relation to these matters.  Senator Georges  shakes his head. I think he disagrees, with me, but that is not unusual. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSON- 1 have provoked him into interjecting. The fact is that we have expressed the view - I repeat it - that there is a high degree of necessity for co-operation between the States in relation to these matters. That matter has been canvassed and is still being canvassed. 
I ask the Minister for Health whether he is aware of a statement made by the Postmaster-General in another place on 6th October in which he said: 
Since commercial television organisations depend upon advertising revenue to conduct their operations, it is believed by the Government that there should be no prohibition on advertising of cigarettes and tobacco. 
Does he disagree in any way with that statement? 
No, it goes beyond that. It provides, for instance, that during periods of transmission when it is believed children are watching television, such advertising is not permitted. I am not suggesting any impropriety on the honourable senator's part in quoting the Postmaster-General, but the quotation is not in accordance with the facts. We need to see with precision what the Postmaster-General said and the full context in which he said it. Quite clearly, there is a code which is applicable and which restricts advertising on television during certain hours, those hours being hours when, it is believed - and this may be arguable - children are watching television. 
 I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science whether he can inform the Senate of the stage reached in the campaign by the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation against the sirex wasp? Has any progress been made in the control or the total elimination of this pest? Can the Minister give any information about the areas or States most affected by the wasp? 
I ask the Minister representing the Treasurer whether his attention has been drawn to the Press statement appearing in the Adelaide Advertiser' of last Wednesday in which the Executive Director of the Master Builders Association of South Australia,  Mr K.  C. West, stated that the cost of building a $10,000 house had increased by $25 a week since 1st January. Because house finance from banks and lending institutions has not kept pace with rising costs, propective house buyers are finding that they need an extra $1,000 deposit. The problem of finding this additional capital is creating a situation where people are unable to proceed with building. Will the Minister consult the Treasurer for the purpose of having home borrowing finance increased from the present figure to a figure which will enable home buyers to borrow sufficient from the lending institutions to overcome the increase so that they will not have to resort to increased crippling second mortgage finance? 
I did not see the article to which the honourable senator refers but, in fairness to the question, I must say that I have seen other statements which posed the same problem in relation to housing costs. I am aware that both at governmental level and in the private sector of the economy there have been movements in the increase of the amount of loan that one could normally obtain. I think that this really touches the fringe of the rather comprehensive question which  Senator Drury  has posed. I shall send the question not only to the Treasurer but also to the Minister for Housing so that he can reflect upon it and supply an answer. 
asked the Minister representingthe Minister for National Development, upon notice: 
Is the Minister aware that the South Australain Government was deeply disappointed that the Federal Government was not prepared to provide financial assistance for the Lock-Kimba pipeline, which would relieve the acute shortage of water in the Kimba area, and would benefit farmers over an area of about 1,000 square miles. 
Will the South Australian Government build the pipeline notwithstanding the continued refusal of the Federal Government to assist the people living in this area. 
Is the Minister also aware that it will take the South Australian Government much longer  to complete the pipeline than the original forecast of 6 to 7 years had financial assistance been forthcoming from the Federal Government. 
Will the Minister consult with the Prime Minister for the purpose of having the necessary finance made available so that water can be supplied to the people of Kimba as quickly as possible. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science whether he is aware that almost every major country except the United States of America has converted to the metric system of weights and measures. As the metric system will provide greater general efficiency and create a better understanding of international standards once it is introduced is the Minister in a position to inform the Senate what stage metric conversion has reached in Australia? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science. In view of the fact that States are not in a financial position to meet their commitments to education as laid down in the - national survey of education needs which covers only necessary and very urgent works, will the Minister indicate what assistance the Commonwealth Government now proposes to give to ensure the further development of education in the preschool, primary and secondary fields in Australia? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science. Has the Government shelved the Nation-wide Survey of Educational Needs? If not. what further action is being undertaken in respect of the survey? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for  Primary  Industry, upon notice: 
How many returned servicemen from Vietnam applied for, and received, loans under the War Service Land Settlement Scheme. 
How many such applicants have, (a) been allocated the full amount of $6,000, (b) received a part loan, and (c) been refused a loan. 
What is the total amount loaned to servicemen who served in Vietnam. 
My Party believes that the only way to examine the war service land settlement scheme thoroughly is to set up a committee, as I have proposed in my amendment. I commend the amendment to the Senate. 
The purpose of this Bill is to raise loan moneys in order to make $4m available for war service land settlement in 
South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania. Although the Opposition does not oppose the Bill, we intend to move an amendment. The Australian Labor Party considers that some aspects of the war service land settlement scheme should be examined to see whether some of the problems which face settlers who have received assistance under the scheme can be rectified so that similar problems will not be experienced by settlers under any future similar scheme. At this stage I move as an amendment to the motion that this Bill be  now  read a second time: 
At end of motion add -  but the Senate is of the opinion that a Joint Select Committee should be appointed to evaluate the operation of the war service land settlement scheme in Australia and to recommend guidelines for any future land settlement scheme'. 
There have been many problems associated with the scheme and some of them have not yet been ironed out, as honourable senators will become aware during the course of my remarks. It has always been the responsibility of the Commonwealth Government  to  raise the whole of the capital moneys required for the operation of the war service land settlement scheme in South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania. The money raised on an annual basis for the purpose of the scheme is to finance capital works in connection with drainage pipelines and other projects which might be contemplated. The money which is to be provided to South Australia is to be spent in the Loxton area, which is in the Upper Murray region of South Australia. All honourable senators will be aware that Loxton is one of the main fruit growing areas of the Commonwealth. The area consists mainly of holdings which were allotted to ex-service settlers under the war service land settlement scheme which came into operation on 11th October 1945, at which time legislation providing for the scheme received royal assent. 
I should point out that the scheme which began on 11th October 1945 was not a continuation of the land settlement scheme which was set up after the 1914-18 war but was a new scheme in which an attempt was made to iron out many of the problems that faced settlers who had received holdings under the first scheme. It attempted also to avoid many of the mistakes that had been made with the earlier scheme by providing training programmes, advisory services and finance. Many settlers' who had received assistance under the scheme have been successful, some have not been so successful and some could not make a go of it at all. Under the land settlement scheme which began in 1945 there was an allocation of 3,047 blocks in New South Wales, 3,048 blocks in' Victoria, 410 blocks in Queensland, 1,021 blocks in South Australia, 1,010 blocks in Western Australia and 552 blocks in Tasmania. 
 There was a variation in the number of blocks allotted to the various States and a variation in the size of blocks allotted, ranging from 300 acres to blocks of more than 1,000 acres. The considerations which were taken into account in determining the size of blocks included matters such as rainfall, soil type and, more important, the type of product for which the block was to be used. For instance, a block used for dairying or fruit growing would not need to be so large as one used for the production of wheat or for grazing purposes. It was necessary to give consideration also to a settler's needs to enable him to carry on with a viable holding. The viability of this scheme has over the years continued to come before the Parliament for consideration. Originally it was believed that the scheme would become viable - and that additional funds would not be required from the Government, but because of rising costs, the loss of overseas market and greater competition it has been necessary for the Government from time to time to supply finance to enable a continuation of works in connection with the scheme. 
No doubt all honourable senators are aware that over the years the war service land settlement scheme has faced serious problems, particularly in South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania. Among these problems have been drought and other climatic conditions and a fall in the price of wool. These factors have severely affected the ability of some settlers to pay their way, especially as many of them were dependent on wool production. Most of the settlers increased their production but in spite of that their returns are lower in proportion to the level reached. Many settlers have found that their incomes have been reduced, even though production has increased. This situation was brought about, as honourable senators know, by the fall in prices, particularly for wool. Many settlers had little opportunity to diversify into other forms of production because of climatic conditions, transport costs and lack of facilities. These conditions particularly apply to Kangaroo island in South Australia and also to the Bass Strait islands off the Tasmanian coast. Farming conditions on those islands differ from those on the mainland. Farming under island conditions has special difficulties which do not apply to mainland farms. 
I will not go along with the argument that the problems and difficulties facing soldier settlers were not confined to them but were' prevalent right throughout the primary industries. 1 believe that soldier settlers have problems which do not exist in other fields of primary production, lt is true that ex-servicemen who wanted to go on the land were given an opportunity to do so. it is also true that many settlers made a success of their holdings. Other settlers have just held their own, but in doing so they have faced many severe problems. 
In spite of the fact that war service land settlers were carefully selected and trained I think all honourable senators will recognise that some of them would not measure up to average management efficiency and would be inclined to failure through no fault of their own. Difficult marketing had found the poorer managers wanting. A lack of experience, poor planning and the drastic change in financial returns caused many of them to dispose of their properties. 
One of the most vexing problems facing farmers, apart from those already outlined by me, was the long delay in fixing the rents that the settlers were required to pay on their blocks. I think it was in 1967 that legal proceedings on behalf. of the settlers were brought in South Australia and judgment was given by  Mr Justice  Bright. The case in point was Heinrich v. Dunsford.  Mr Heinrich  stated that his rent was fixed at $400 per annum and claimed that that was the amount that he had to pay right through the term of his lease. Honourable senators know what a long drawn out case it was. At page 6 of his judgment  Mr Justice  Bright said that properties purchased for the settlement of ex-servicemen had been zoned according to the similarity of the types of country and until all holdings had been allotted and re-valued in accordance with the War Service Land Settlemerit Agreement the rental could not be finally fixed. To enable payments to be made so that arrears would not accumulate the Department fixed a provisional rental of .$400.  Mr Heinrich  claimed that that was his correct rental. However, it was also stated in the agreement that it was only a provisional rental and it could be increased later. 
One of the conditions of the allotment was that no rental or payment on account of advances would be charged during the first 12 months after allotment. This would be called an assistance period. In the case of  Mr Heinrich  the assistance period ended on 30th March 1954, but in 1963 he received a letter from the Director of Lands informing him that the State and Commonwealth governments had reached an agreement on the final rental and charge for structural improvements. The final rental was fixed at $962 per annum as from 1st May 1963. That is more than double the amount that  Mr. Heinrich  was notified that bis rental would be. We also must take into consideration that that rental was fixed 9 years after the end of the assistance period.  Mr Heinrich  objected and refused to sign the lease on those grounds. 

 Mr Justice Bright in his judgment also found that the proper method of fixing the rental for the petitioner's land was to assess the value in terms of paragraph 5 of the conditions set down by the Department; that is, to take  2i  per cent of the capital value with the adjustments provided therein. Page 22 of the judgment sets out the reasons for  Mr Justice  Bright's decision. I will quote from the judgment. 
 Mr Chairman.  I  will now move the  2  amendments asI foreshadowed in my second reading speech. The first amendment deals with clause  10  which provides:  (1.) The following amounts may be recovered by the Commonwealth as debts due to the Commonwealth: 
levy and provisional levy that is due and payable; 
an amount payable by way of penalty under the last preceding section.  (2.)  In proceedings for the recovery of an amount referred to in the last preceding subsection, an averment or statement in the complaint, claim or declaration of the plaintiff is evidence of the matter so averred or stated. 
I move: 
Leave out sub-clause  (2.) 
The Opposition feels that this clause is one that should not be in the Bill. It deals with money to. be recovered by the Commonwealth in respect of debts which are due to the Commonwealth. We oppose this subclause. We believe that it should be taken out of the Bill. 
 To save time I seek leave to move a second amendment. The Committee will divide on it and, with the concurrence of the Committee, perhaps we could have one division on both clauses. 
 The Australian Labor Party does not oppose the 3 Bills relating to dried vine fruits but we propose to move 2 amendments in relation to the Dried Vine Fruits Levy Collection Bill. I give notice at this point of time that the Opposition proposes to move these amendments in the Committee stage. I think it might be a good idea if the amendments were circulated at this point of time in order to give honourable senators an opportunity of having a look at them. The stabilisation plan for the dried vine fruits industry was introduced in June 1971 when the Minister for Primary Industry,  Mr Ian  Sinclair, notified the people concerned - the Australian Dried Fruits Association, known as ADFA - that a stabilisation plan would be put into operation which would replace the plan that was introduced between 1964 and 1968. When the plan was introduced in those years the growers voted overwhelmingly against its introduction because they believed that it did not go far enough to assist them and they thought that the plan was not good enough. For those reasons the plan was defeated. 
Until this point of time, of course, there has been no stability in the industry. Many problems have faced the industry, and perhaps the reason for this is that the growers did not accept the previous stabilisation plan. Had they accepted it perhaps it would have helped the industry to overcome some of these problems. When this new scheme was put to the growers in a referendum they voted overwhelmingly in favour of it. We hope that it will help to put the industry back on its- feet again. It is an industry which is vital to Australia, lt is not only an important national industry but it is vital to South Australia because a great deal of dried vine fruits are grown in that Slate. This fact was mentioned yesterday in the debate on the proposal to allocate money to the war service land settlement scheme in the Loxton area of the upper Murray in South Australia. This is a very important industry which is facing many difficulties. The Australian industry depends largely on overseas markets. Its overseas markets are decreasing. The industry will have to look elsewhere to achieve sales of dried fruits. lt has been stated that this stabilisation scheme will perhaps help to put the industry back on its feel. It will stabilise the incomes of growers who, in the past, have never been sure what they will receive. Complaints have come from growers from time to time. Deputations have come to Canberra to see the minister for Primary Industry. Many suggestions have been put forward. One of them was that this industry would continue to function and be able to improve itself if a statutory marketing board was established. Of course, some people within the industry do not agree with this suggestion. But there are still some who feel that a single statutory marketing board would be of great assistance to the industry. I will deal with this argument later in my speech. 
As 1 mentioned, the industry has faced many problems. One of the greatest of these, apart from crop losses over the past couple of years, was the collapse of the International Sultana Agreement. Greece and Turkey brought about this collapse. They produced a great deal of dried vine fruits. They undermine the markets in the United Kingdon and Canada by price cutting and other 'switch deals' as they are called. We known what a great effect this had on the dried fruit industry in Australia. This action was taken despite the knowledge that all producing countries could trade satisfactorily at higher levels. Those levels were essential for the maintenance of the economy of the Australian industry. 
Every effort has been made to get the producing countries to adhere to the international agreement on prices. In April of this year, a working committee from countries which are parties to the agreement met in London in an attempt to keep the agreement working on an acceptable basis to all those concerned. The meeting was not successful. In fact the United States refused to attend it. In June, a full conference was held but again negotiations failed. Although I believe that the United States did not attend or was not a party to the agreement, it did agree that it would work within the ambit of the agreement and would not participate in any price cutting or any switch deals. 
One of the other factors that will affect the industry - I do not say that this action is aimed at Australian producers - is the proposed entry of Britain into the Common Market. We have heard a good deal of criticism, suggestions and ideas about what will happen to Australian primary industries when Britain becomes a member of the European Economic Community. But I feel that these problems can be overcome if we set to work to try to obtain markets to replace those that we could lose in Britain following its entry into the Economic Community. It has been pointed out that, should the United Kingdom join the EEC, the cost to Australian sultana growers would be S8 to $10 a ton on total production. This would mean a loss in the normal year of about $750,000. It has been pointed out that Australian fruits will not be barred immediately from entry into the United Kingdom. This is one of the problems that face producers in Australia. 
The Board of the Australian Dried Fruits Association has warned its members that if Greece and Turkey persist with their present marketing policies and increase their production a drop in Aus? tralian export price levels must follow. More importantly still, the entire market in the United Kingdom and on the Continent could be lost to Australian growers if Greece and Turkey prove capable - I have no doubt that they would be capable - of supplying all the European Economic Community's requirements. The Board also pointed out that the outlook is not attractive; indeed, it is frustrating when it is made so clear by market conditions that acceptance of an international agreement between all producing countries could work to their mutual advantage. This would help to raise the price levels without affecting the consumer's demands. Of course, the list of probabilities does not end there. The Board also went on to warn the Council that the normal high production could be increased unless some action were taken by State Governments to limit the planting of dual purpose grape varieties. We know that up to a short time ago the wineries were accepting greater amounts- of wine making grapes, and sultanas are amongst these. Of course, with the introduction of the 50c excise on wines the production of wine has fallen and therefore it is believed that the need for the wineries to take the extra grapes will no longer exist. I will not deal with the 50c excise any further apart from saying that it has had a marked effect on the production of wines and will, of course, have a marked effect on the dried fruits industry. This has been pointed out by many sections of the industry and by people who represent the industry. The further plantings of dual grape vines will impose a serious problem of overproduction. This problem was recognised by the Commonwealth Grape Advisory Committee which will present a survey of sultana production and marketing to the Australian Agricultural Council, recommending that the need for control over future planting be emphasised to the States. Let us hope that some good will come out of this. 
Another problem that has faced growers is the inflationary spiral. The effects of inflation on the cost of production combined with the down trend in export prices has placed a very heavy financial burden on the industry. In this regard much work has been done at government level to secure carry-on finance for growers and to utilise to the best advantage the Commonwealth rural reconstruction scheme which is administered by the States. The fact that more should be done to help the industry has certainly been brought to the attention of those who are interested in the industry. The extra planting of dual grapes will increase the production of sultanas. The present production of sultanas in a normal season is in excess of 80,000 tons a year, of which only 13,000 or 14,000 tons can be sold in Australia. The balance has to be exported, at times at prices below the cost of production. Without any additional planting the real possibility is that the production of sultanas could reach 90.000 tons in the very near future. 
All honourable senators know what happened in 1968-69 when there was a shortage of dried fruits because of seasonal conditions. With a heavy demand for this type of fruit by the wineries, this had an adverse effect on packing houses which were handling the fruit. Some of the most heavily hit sections of the industry were the relatively small South Australian cooperative packing sheds which are owned by the growers in the areas concerned. The Board of Management of the ADFA considers that the trend for heavy diversion of fresh grapes of drying varieties could continue for another 3 years. This would be another factor which could seriously affect the small packing sheds. The latest figures show that the amount of sultanas sold to wineries is up at least 25,000 tons, which represents about 6,000 tons of dried fruit. Most packing companies, particularly those in South Australia where at present the problem is centred, were formed by growers, in these circumstances growers seem to be lacking in foresight in their eagerness to supply wineries which at present are paying attractive prices for grapes grown for drying. A warning has been issued that this trend could weaken the structure of the packing companies that the growers own. Many growers are without financial reserves because of the downward trend in the industry, because of reduced incomes in the years when the crops were light and because of the heavy losses through rains in the 1969 harvest. Urgent assistance for these growers is therefore absolutely necessary at this point of time. 1 hope that the stabilisation scheme will go a long way towards helping the producers overcome some of their difficulties. Packing sheds and packing companies have provided some help, but the extent to which they can tide growers over the present period is governed by the finance that the companies can draw on from the value of the heavily depleted pack. In these circumstances Government support is essential. The ADFA said that it would assist growers in any approach to government, but it considered that it would be much better if such approaches were initiated by growers' district councils. I believe that what would help the growers to a large extent would be a loan at a low rate of interest, similar to the loans which are being granted to Victorian and New South Wales growers by the respective State governments. This could be done by the State Government or by the Commonwealth. In addition to the finance through loans which the Board is seeking from the State Government, certain concessions such as rail freight concessions and a Government subsidy on the cost of treatment of the rain damaged fruit are further measures of relief which could be provided. These would certainly help the industry. 
I have pointed out that in some sectors of the industry there is a move to establish a single statutory marketing plan which these people believe would be of great assistance to the industry. I feel that if the Government could give consideration to this, in conjunction with the stabilisation scheme, the industry would be able to overcome many of its difficulties. Only recently members of the industry approached South Australian members of Parliament regarding the possibility of this sort of thing happening. When the suggestion of a single statutory marketing board was put the Minister for Primary Industry said that there were many people in the industry who did not agree with the proposition. The State  chairman  of the Vine Fruit Section of the United Farmers and Graziers of South Australia,  Mr J.  Trevor, wrote to the minister giving reasons why he thought that the single statutory board for marketing all dried fruits would be of great assistance to the industry. The Minister sent a reply on 30th October 1971.I seek leave to incorporate the letter in Hansard. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows): 
Dear  Mr Trevor, 
My thanks for the opportunity to meet you,  Mr Hunte-Cooke  and  Dr Dawson  and to discuss with you the petition which you presented in support of a single statutory board for the marketing of all dried vine fruits. 
As you will recall, your proposal was raised previously at three meetings of the Australian Agricultural Council. However, none of the State Ministers were prepared to accept that such an authority should be established. 
As Constitutional power to legislate for such an authority resides in the Stales, it is imperative that States be prepared to bring downthe appropriate legislation. 
Youmay rest assured that I and  my  officers understand the proposal which you support and are prepared to considerit further if State Governments demonstrate their sympathy. 
IAN SINCLAIR 

 Mr J. Trevor, State  Chairman,  Vine" Fruit Section, United Farmers and Graziers of S.A., P.O. Box 244. Barmera, S.A.5345. 
Correspondence has been sent to the  South  Australian Minister of Agriculture,  Mr T.  M. Casey, M.L.C., about the proposition. It was written on 10th November. As far as I know, at this point of time there has been received no reply. There may be one now, but I do not know the outcome of the representation to the South Australian Minister of Agriculture. I believe that the stabilised scheme will help the industry. I also believe that if the Government could consult with the interested persons in the industry regarding the setting up of a statutory marketing organisation this would go a long way towards helping the industry. The amendments that I intend to move to the Dried Vine Fruits Levy Collection Bill have been circulated. I feel that the amendments should be debated when the Committee stage of that Bill is reached. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry aware that the Australian Wine Board has lost confidence in the industry's future since the SOc a gallon tax was introduced? Is the Minister aware also that during the current vintage grape growers, who were actively encouraged by the Government to enter primary industry, will be in jeopardy because of this year's record vintage, which will mean that, many grape growers will not be able to sell their crops, and that the situation will become much more critical if the present wine tax legislation is not changed? Will the Minister ask the Government to take action to assist the grape growers who are affected by this situation? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Air. What is the number of personnel going to the United States of America for training and familiarisation with the F111 aircraft? How many of the personnel were sent to America on a previous occasion to train for the same purpose? What will be the cost of this exercise? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. American initiatives last year on China and economic policy caught Australia by surprise and created problems for Canberra. The problems were resolved satisfactorily, although they underline the need for continuing close consultation between Washington and Canberra. What were the good reasons for the United States not consulting with Canberra regarding its plans in such important moves? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Services. Is it a fact that a recipient of sickness or unemployment benefits loses the dependant's allowance of $4.50 a week when the eldest child reaches  16  years of age and continues at school thereby remaining a dependant? If so, despite the fact that this question involves policy, will the Minister confer with his colleague for the purpose of examining this anomaly and as quickly as possible bring the dependant's allowance for recipients of unemployment and sickness benefits in line with dependant's allowances payable, to age, invalid and widowed pensioners who continue to receive the dependant's allowance for student children over 16 years of age? 
 My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I ask: Is Australia to be represented at the United Nations sponsored Conference on the Human Environment which is to be held in Stockholm next June? If so, can the Minister say when the announcement of the Australian delegation is expected? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Is it a fact that a ban has been imposed on the importation of goldfish from Japan? If so, by whose authority and on what grounds was the ban imposed? Was it because of the danger of disease? If so, would the disease be dangerous to humans, animals or other fish? Or was it because of the predatory nature of goldfish? Will the ban apply only to Japan or to all countries exporting live fish to Australia? Is the Minister also aware that the sudden imposition of the ban has placed dealers in live fish throughout Australia in a serious financial position as the largest portion of their incomes was derived from that source? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Are young men, who become eligible for national service registration while serving a gaol sentence, exempt from tbe requirement to register; if so, are they required to register on release from gaol. 

 Senator WRIGHT- The Minister for Labour and National Service has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Men in gaol are liable to register for national service in the same way as other men in their age group when required to do so. I also refer the honourable senator to my reply to Question No. 1344 in which I detailed the steps taken to ensure that all necessary information and the means to effect registration are available to the responsible prison authorities throughout Australia and that the requirement to register is brought to the attention of men in gaol who may be required to register within a particular registration period. 
asked the. Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Now that President Nixon's visit to the People's Republic of China has concluded, will a full statement regarding the visit be made to the Parliament; if so, when can this statement be expected. 

 Senator WRIGHT - The Minister for Foreign Affairs has furnished the following reply: 
I propose to make a general statement on international affairs later in this session of Parliament. I expect it to include some reference to President Nixon's visit to the People's Republic of China. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science who administers the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation whether he is aware that a new desalination process known as Sirotherm for purifying water for domestic and industrial use is undergoing final tests in 3 States, namely, Victoria, South Australia and Western Australia? If so, is the Minister in a position to supply to the Senate a statement of the results of these trials? 
 I address my question to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development. In a recent statement, the Minister for National Development said that mineral imports into Australia in 1971 had dropped by about $S0m as a direct result of self-sufficiency in petroleum products. Because of that drop, when can the hard hit and patient Australian motorist expect some of the savings to be passed on to him in the form of reduced petrol prices? 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Will the Postmaster-General re-classify the Journals of State school parent Associations under Category 'A' for posting purposes in view of their role which is both charitable and serving the purposes of education. 
Will the Postmaster-General also make known the specific amount of increased revenue due to this postal re-classification. 

 Senator GREENWOOD- The PostmasterGeneral has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The postal classification of the journals of State School Parents' Associations has been carefully examined on a number of occasions and it is not possible to vary the classification of those publications as requested. The Post Office is unable to regard parents' and similar organisations related toeither Government or private schools as being educational or charitable organisations and therefore eligible for Category 'A' classification of their journals. 
Educational organisations must have the dissemination of knowledge as their principal object. According to the strict criteria adopted by the Post Office, educational organisations are considered to be those bodies, such as universities, schools and colleges, which are generally recognised as such and which have a significant element of systematic or formalised education in their activities. Charitable organisations are considered to be those which devote a substantial and continuing effort to the relief of the poor and afflicted and have this as one of their principal objects. 
As is the case with Stale School Parents' Associations, if a body does not qualify for recognition by the Post Office as an educational or charitable organisation, then its journal, regardless of its actual nature, is ineligible for Category 'A' registration as an educational or charitable periodical. 
A special Australia-wide survey would be necessary to collate the records of postings of the publications of individual organisations and to determine the difference in revenue which a Category 'A' classification for the publications of State Schools Parents' Associations would make in the circumstances, it is not considered that this effort is warranted and therefore it is not possible to provide the information requested. 
I should like to draw attention, however, to the extent of the postal subsidy already enjoyed by such organisations with publications registered in Category 'B'. The subsidy for Category 'B' articles at the 2 oz level (the level most directly affecting State School Parents' Associations) is 41/2 cents to 5 cents per article. The estimated annual postage revenue from all category 'B' articles is $3.7m. The revenue at normal printed matter rates would be $10.5m. The postal subsidy for a full year is, therefore, $6.8m with an average subsidy of 8.5 cents per article. The concession already enjoyed by State School Parents' Associations and other organisations with Category 'B' publications is therefore very considerable. 
 I direct a question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. I refer to the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Board annual report for 1970-71, in which it is stated that the amortised investments of the Fund amount to more than $134m I ask the Minister: What happens to the return from this investment? Is it accumulated and reinvested? If so, as the investment comes from the contributions paid to the Fund by its members, will the Treasurer take steps to have this profit returned to the contributors in the form of higher payments? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Has the 
Minister's attention been drawn to reports from representatives of the deciduous  hui  industry in South Australia that unless the industry is provided with immediate financial assistance similar to assistance already provided in most other primary industries it faces virtual collapse? Will the Minister consider the extent to which Commonwealth financial assistance in these circumstances can be granted to the deciduous fruit industry? 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Is the Treasurer aware that the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Board Annual Report 1970-71 states that the present amortised investments of the fund amount to more than$1 34m. 
Is the return from this investment accumulated and re-invested; if so, as the investment comes from the contributions paid to the fund by members, will the Treasurer take action to have this profit returned to the contributors in the form of higher pensions and refunds. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
The income forms part of the Fund in accordance with Section 15 (2) of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act. Together with contributions this income forms part of the assets of the Fund accumulated to ensure that the benefits promised under the scheme will be available for current members at all times. 
The relationship of assets and liabilities is examined actuarially at 5 yearly intervals to establish whether there is a surplus or deficiency. If a surplus is disclosed the question of additional benefits which might become available is reported upon by the Actuary and considered by the Board and the Government. A quinquennial investigation for the period ended 30th June 1969 is now being carried out and the result is expected to be reported later this year. 
My question to the Minister representing the PostmasterGeneral relates to the recent decision of the Postmaster-General to acquire the Telmar medical radio paging service telephone network. I ask: What will be the cost to the people of Australia of this acquisition? What steps have been taken to ensure that the people who have bought units for it are not inconvenienced? What was the reason for the takeover? 
I ask the AttorneyGeneral: Was Kim Robert Norman of Perth arrested in Perth on 26th July for alleged breach of section 51 of the National Service Act - failing to answer a call-up notice? Did he appear in court on the same day and was bail set at $1,500 with a similar surety? If so, does the Minister believe the bail to be excessive? Will the Minister obtain for the Senate the reason why such high bail was set? I also ask the Minister: ls bail of such an excessive amount generally set for much more serious crimes? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Is it a fact that the Australian Wool Board has joined the Reserve Bank of Australia in advocating a revaluation of the Australian dollar? Is it also a fact that the Board's conclusion that the value of the Australian dollar is in fundamental disequilibrium coincides with the view stated in the annual report of the Reserve Bank? Did the Reserve Bank strongly advocate a revaluation of the dollar as the best measure to convert Australia's unusually high reserves of foreign currency into imports which could benefit the nation? Is the Minister aware that the Wool Board follows the Bank's analysis in stating that a revaluation would be anti-inflationary? Is it not a fact that many rural commodities have substantial local markets which would not be affected by a revaluation of the dollar? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Is it a fact that Government officials believe that Australia's chances of re-entering the Chinese wheat market could be destroyed by a domestic shortage and the Government's failure to recognise the People's Republic of China, and that China is now prepared to buy Australia's wheat despite past political differences? Also, is it a fact that Australia has no wheat to sell and that officials are worried that by the time stocks become available China will have bought elsewhere? Is it also a fact that past quotas have placed Australia in this position? When will the Government consider lifting or raising the quotas because of this serious situation? 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
What will  be  the cost to the PostmasterGeneral's Department  of  acquiring  the  Telmar medical radio paging  service and what  action  has  been taken  to  ensure that people who have  already  bought such units will not be inconvenienced upon changeover. 
What are the reasons for the Department acquiring the Telmar system. 
1 ask the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs: What is the position of Australian citizens now living in Uganda? Will the Minister inform the Senate what steps have  been taken by the Government to protect the lives and property of Australians in Uganda? 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation. Can the Minister inform the Senate whether the wife of a totally and permanently incapacitated pensioner, in the case where the only income of the couple is their pensions and they have no other assets, will be deprived of the benefits of the pensioner medical service because of the increase granted in the TPI pension? 
I rise to support the motion that the Senate take note of the report and, in doing so, concur in the remarks made by  Senator Sim.  I believe the recommendations of the Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and 
Defence to be worthy of the close consideration of the Government. I do not wish to speak at length at this stage, but on behalf of the members of the Committee I thank  Senator Sim  for his kind remarks about the work of the Committee as a whole and I compliment him on his chairmanship throughout the inquiry. The task of the Committee has been onerous but I believe that as a result of the wealth of evidence placed before us and the attention that the Committee members have paid to this important subject, a series of very worthwhile recommendations has been developed. There are other things that I would like to say but as there is other business before the Senate, I ask for leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Senate lake note of the report. 
I  ask  for leave to make my remarks  at  a later date. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I ask the Minister for the Media whether it is a fact that Australian film producers are still confronted by major difficulties in distributing their films and that a number whose films are funded by the Australian Film Development Corporation have sought the Corporation's advice, particularly on distribution outside the major cinema circuits. Is the Government taking any action to help Australian film producers? 
I ask the. Minister assisting the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether Australia, together with many other nations, at the most recent General Assembly of the United Nations desired urgent- action to be taken to prevent international terrorism which affected innocent people not a party to any dispute? Was the - draft' resolution prepared which would have directed the International Law Commission to prepare as a matter of priority a convention providing effective means ft combat terrorism? As the resolution failed and lt appears unlikely that any effective action can-be achieved before the next session of the General Assembly and in the light of the recent acts of terrorism, will the . Government continue to work for the passage of the resolution through the various organs of the United Nations? 
 When the debate on the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence in relation to Japan was adjourned I had said that I believed the report was worthy of close consideration by the Government Now I shall deal briefly with several aspects of the report which I consider worthy of special attention. I do not wish to traverse the whole of the report for I am aware that my colleagues who worked so hard with me on the Committee will speak later in this debate and wish to express their views on many of the Committee's findings. Firstly, I should like to indicate that the Committee's inquiry has pointed up the magnitude of the growth of trade between Australia and Japan in the post-war years to the stage where Japan provides Australia's greatest single export market. We all know just how greatly trade between these countries has increased since the end of the war in 1945. In 1971 more than one-quarter of Australia's exports, valued at more than $l,360m, were exported to Japan. To a large extent Australia's relations with Japan are based on trade. However, the Committee believes that trading alone does not provide an adequate foundation for long term warm relations between the 2 countries, which I am sure everyone of us desires. I believe, and the Committee believes, that much effort must be devoted to the strengthening of personal relationships between the peoples of Australia and Japan. Those who have read the report will know that the Committee has made a number of recommendations in this direction. 
When one looks at the current world situation one finds that it is changing rapidly and that many circumstances have altered substantially even since the Committee completed its hearings not very long ago. A major change has occurred recently in the international monetary situation. This is an outstanding example of change. The magnitude of Australia's trade with Japan stems from 2 principal factors, the first being Japan's rapid industrial growth and the other Australia's favourable position as the supplier of raw materials needed to sustain Japanese indus tries and the ease with which these materials can be transported to Japan. Concern has been expressed from time to time that Australia could become too dependent upon the Japanese market. This has been examined very closely by the Committee but this does not seem to be a serious threat in relation to certain of our raw materials which are essential to Japanese industry. 
Nevertheless the Committee has suggested that much more needs to be done to establish a clear resources policy in Australia. Our objective should be to have available the greatest amount of information possible on the extent of deposits of many of our minerals and the desirable rate of their exploitation as well as an assurance that Australia is obtaining a just return for these exports. The present Government has set up the Ministry of Minerals and Energy, and I believe that the recently announced decision by the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  to bring under export control a number of commodities previously allowed to be freely exported is a step in the right direction. Associated with this resources policy is the need for a close examination of the benefits likely to accrue from the processing or part processing within Australia of many of these raw materials. The evidence put before the Committee showed that little information is available upon which firm decisions on the relative merits of exports of raw materials against processed or part processed materials can be based. 
I should like to quote the following extract from the Committee's conclusions and recommendations at page 81 of the report: 
The Committee believes there is a necessity for Australia to have a clearly defined natural resources policy, including energy conservation. The Committee makes the following comments with regard to such a policy: e Australia can continue to seek export opportunities for coal, iron ore and bauxite without fear of depleting its own reserves; o there is a need for cost-benefit studies to determine the economics of exporting raw materials as compared with their processing to various stages in Australia prior to export; and o if a decision is made to build a uranium enrichment plant in Australia, control should be retained in Australian hands. 
So the report states that there is a great need for such action to be taken. 
The evidence has shown also that Japan would in all probability welcome the opportunity to import much more of our raw materials in a partially or fully processed form because of the overwhelming demands now being made on her own industries. The following recommendation of the Committee might interest  Senator Laucke  who this morning asked a question regarding shipping: 
That means be sought of extending the Australian maritime industry. 
As the Committee has pointed out under the heading 'Shipping' at page 56, every reliance has been placed on overseas owned vessels for the transport of our exports. It was suggested to the Committee by a witness that external influences have operated to the detriment of the growth of the Australian maritime industry. Whether this be true or not the fact remains that it appears to the Committee to be against Australia's best interests that this heavy reliance on overseas shipping should continue. The following passage appears at page 56 of the report under the heading Shipping': 
A feature of the Austraiian export trade has always been the heavy reliance placed on overseasowned vessels for the transport of goods. One witness suggested that external influences have continued to operate to the detriment of the growth of an Australian maritime industry. 
Intermittently attempts have been made to stimulate the growth of Australia's shipping fleet, but the limited success so far achieved is indicated by evidence that the level of import and export tonnages carried to and from Australia in Australian ships during 1969-70 were 0.09 and 0.08 per cent respectively. By comparison, Japanese ships in the same year carried 35 per cent of Australia's total exports. 
Evidence was also submitted on the strength of what is known as the 'Conference Line'_ system, which is an association of ship owners which regulates the freight rates and terms and conditions of carriage of goods in any particular trade. Conference Line ships operate on a regular timetable, stopping at scheduled ports and accepting cargo in small or large consignments at established freight rates. This certainty of service offers great benefits, but those criticisms which are made are generally based on the cartel-type operation  ond  the rates of freights charged. The Conference Lines do not normally operate in the tanker and bulk cargo trade. Many countries have sought to deal with the criticisms of Conference Line operations but have generally come to the conclusion that shippers themselves should form equally strong associations to be able to negotiate from a position of strength with the ship owners. 
It seems incongruous that an island continent like Australia, so heavily dependent on shipping for its trade with the rest of the world, should allow itself to be so reliant on foreign owned ships. I also strongly support the Committee's recommendation that firm measures be taken to give every encouragement to the further development of the Australian shipping industry. The Committee received evi dence that already the Japanese shipbuilding industry has shown a remarkable spirit of co-operation in making available to some Australian shipbuilders its technical know-how and skilled operatives to assist in some of Australia's limited shipbuilding operations. There is every indication that, if sought, to supplement the skills already available in Australia, this technical knowledge would be made available on a greater scale. I feel sure that not only will this report be well received within the confines of the Australian Parliament in Canberra but also that it will be acclaimed throughout the world. 
It is a report that has never been attempted before. It has meant much work and research. Many witnesses had to be contacted. The officers who worked with the Committee had to work extremely hard. The Committee met on every possible occasion and showed by its hard work and diligence that it was investigating an area that should be given the greatest consideration so that a report, such as the one now presented, should meet with the approval that it deserves. I would like to join with the  Chairman  of the Committee,  Senator Sim,  in thanking the officers who worked so hard during the Committee's consideration of this reference. I mention  Mr Arthur  Higgins, the Secretary of the Committee,  Mr James  Livermore, a member of the Senate committee staff, and  Mr David  Sissons of the National University. Only those of us who. have worked with these officers know what a great assistance they were to us. Their efforts and hard work were instrumental in helping the Committee to bring down this report. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health, fs the Minister aware that since 1964 more than 200 sufferers from arteriosclerosis, at great cost to themselves in some cases necessitating the mortgage of their homes, have travelled to Germany from Australia to  Dr Moller's  clinic in Kassel, Germany, for oxygen therapy treatment as practised by  Dr Moller?  Is he also aware that these sufferers had been told by their medicos that the only treatment left to them was amputation of the affected limbs? Is he also aware that these sufferers have returned to Australia with their limbs intact and able to lead normal lives? In view of this, will he obtain the medical reports of some of the people concerned prior to going to Germany and after their return? Would he have the oxygen therapy treatment of  Dr Moller  thoroughly examined for the purpose of having the treatment made available in Australia so that these people will not have to go to such expense to have their treatment in Germany? 
I present the report of Estimates Committee B relating to the particulars of proposed additional expenditure for 1972-73, together with the Hansard report of the proceedings of the Committee. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
-Can the Minister for Primary Industry inform the Senate whether he has yet made a recommendation to the Government on possible reforms in wool marketing arrangements? If not, is the Minister still of the opinion that he can make no firm recommendations until the report of the Australian Wool Corporation on wool marketing is received? If so, when might this report become available? 
Did the Minister for Repatriation on behalf of the Minister for the Army recently receive a deputation from the Whyalla Town Commission regarding the road over Army land to Point Lowly in South Australia? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Repatriation, refers to the Minister's earlier announcement that repatriation determining authorities will be required to give reasons for their decisions. What is the current position with these proposals for improvement? 
I ask the Minister for Repatriation whether it is a fact that, after the increase in the pensions of totally and permanently incapacitated ex-servicemen, which was granted in the previous Government's 1972 Budget, the wives of these exservicemen were deprived of the pension fringe benefits because of the increase which they received in their pensions? 
My question is directed to the Minister Assisting the Minister for Defence. Is it the Government's intention to consult the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the trade unions representing employees in government factories and shipyards about the likely workload for the coming year? 
The Senate tonight is debating a matter of urgency, namely:  . . the reduction of Australia's defences to a degree which destroys the morale of our armed forces, leaves Australia without credibility as an ally and gravely endangers our security. 
What is Australia's position today so far as security is concerned? In recent weeks a series of newspaper articles has appeared on the capability of our present defence forces to defend Australia. I read those articles carefully and I could not find in any of them any reference to the possibility of a direct threat to Australia. In fact the writers of those articles acknowledged that there is no threat to Australia. 
-No apparent threat. That does not matter, however, because none of us can say for certain at this point of time that there is a threat or any apparent threat to Australia. From where is the threat supposed to be coming? We cannot say that we are being threatened by the countries of South East Asia. We cannot say that we are being threatened by Indonesia. Even Denis Warner, the author of one of the articles in this series, has acknowledged that the changing world in a way makes Australian involvement in Asian wars a remote possibility. 
I now wish to refer to an article on defence which appears on page 17 of the 1972 annual report of the Returned Services League of Australia. The report indicates that the RSL does not believe that there is a foreseeable specific threat to Australia. Under the heading 'RSL Defence Paper 1973 ', the report states: 
This year marks an important point in the history of Australia's defence development. 
The withdrawal of our combat forces from operations in Vietnam, and the absence of any foreseeable specific threat, provide a breathing space in which to determine long range policies. Even the major powers in our strategic area are jostling for position in the power-balance struggle. 

 Senator Bishop and  Senator Sim  mentioned here tonight that the balance and detente between the great powers make large scale international conflict highly unlikely. The Nixon Doctrine leaves no doubt that the United States will not again engage in Vietnam-type intervention. The Labor Government would not be willing to intervene in any way in this type of situation. Not only is it against our principles, but it is counterproductive. Of course, the Opposition does not share our principles. 
A government would be foolish if it did not listen to its defence advisers. The Labor Government has listened to its defence advisers. The Government's defence advisers have completed a strategic re-appraisal of our defence needs based upon information from the Joint Intelligence Organisation. This Organisation was mentioned by  Senator Bishop.  I might add that it shares intelligence information with the United States and Great Britain. So I fail to see on what basis it is said in the matter of urgency that our credibility as an ally has been affected, because both Great Britain and the United States are still sharing intelligence information with Australia. 
-Well, I do not know; but we have to rely on what has been mentioned not only here but also in other places, and it has been said that we share this information with Great Britain and the United States. The re-appraisal carried out by the Department of Defence was concerned not merely with the apparent intentions and ambitions of other countries but also with their military potential. The conclusion has been reached that no one is threatening our security or is likely to threaten our security for the next 10 or 15 years. It is true that there is no guarantee that the lead time will be 10 or 15 years. There is always a likelihood of some major upheaval in the world in view of the situation today. Mention was made of the confrontation between China and Russia. Even the experts do not believe that these 2 countries would engage in a shooting war at this point of time. I feel that Australia's present position was well expressed by  Sir Victor  Smith, who has been mentioned here this evening already, when he said recently that at this moment we are one of the most secure countries in the world. Regardless of which party is in power, this is Australia 's strategic situation. The difference between the political parties in Australia is that the Australian Labor Party welcomes this absence of threat whereas our political opponents lament the passing of an era in which elections could be won by stressing the threat from the north. 
But we should not be lulled into a sense of false security or complacency. The Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  is not allowing the fact that there is no direct threat to Australia to lull the Government or himself into any state of false security. He has given the assurance that the Department of Defence will regularly review the international situation, which is being monitored, so that any deterioration in our strategic situation will be recognised in advance of the threat becoming a conflict. Much of our present problem results from the fact that Australia's strategic situation, which has been apparent for some years, was not allowed by the previous Government to be reflected in the size and shape of our armed forces. We have accepted the responsibility of making substantial changes in relation to defence, and we recognise the fact that there must be changes. The Government has outlined these changes. The proposed changes involve members of our defence forces in a transition virtually from a war-time to a peace-time situation. National service has been abolished and our defence forces now operate wholly on a volunteer basis. Any change of this nature inevitably creates a degree of uncertainty. It is not surprising that some privates and sergeants and even colonels and captains have been affected by these changes' and have some qualms about the future. But if one reads the annual report of the RSL one finds on page 1 9 - 
-The year 1972. 
It has only '1972' on my copy. The section I read earlier was under the heading 'RSL Defence Paper 1973 '.On page 19. under the heading 'Defence Forces' the report states: ' 
The Defences Review shows we will spend this year $ 1 ,252m on defence. $97 1m of this sum goes on maintaining the forces of 8 1,000 men (backed by 52,000 civilians) - 
I said that it is the 1972 annual report of the RSL National Executive. 
-The latest report, and the headings are under ' RSL Defence Paper 1 973 '. 
-You had better tell that to the National Executive of the RSL. The report stated that there were 81,000 men including 52,000 civilians. I am not a mathematician, but subtracting 52,000 from 81,000 gives a total of 29,000 men in uniform. The Defence statement brought down by  Mr Barnard  has the Army strength at 3 1 ,000 with an increase of 1 ,000 a year until 1976 when it will reach a total of 34,000, at which time another review will be made of our situation. Then, if necessary, the numbers will be increased and the whole defence force will be updated at that period. We have been told that 3 1 ,000 men- that is the number of the Army at present- constitute divisional strength and could quickly be built into greater strength by the expertise that remains in the Army. The Army is a professional body. These men have been professionals since the Second World War and they take pride in their professionalism. Not only do they take pride in it but I believe their morale will not suffer as a result of the cut back in the Defence vote. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Brown)-  Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
I present the report of Estimates Committee B relating to the particulars of proposed expenditure for the year 1973-74, together with the Hansard record of the Committee 's proceedings. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I present the following petition from 138 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
1 ) That Australian citizens place great value on their freedom to choose their own doctor in all aspects of medical care. 
That we believe in a doctor's freedom to provide a personal service based on personal responsibility within a system based on quality rather than quantity, as opposed to an impersonal service in which doctor and patient lose their identity. 
3 ) That proposals to change the existing health scheme are unacceptable to the people of Australia. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-I ask the Minister for the Media: Is it a fact that individuals and groups are making their voices heard in protest at the fact that some television programs seem to be spearheading the decline in moral standards which can undermine the very fabric of individual, family and national life? I point out that one example is the current controversy over the television program 'The Box' shown on the Channel 0-10 network. Does this show and others which cause concern contravene the standards which are laid down by the Australian Broadcasting Control Board? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Labour. I recently inspected the career reference centre established by this Government in Gawler Place, Adelaide, and was suitably impressed by the services provided. Can the Minister say whether the Government intends to expand this type of service? 
The Senate today is debating an urgency motion. If one looks at page 188, item 8, of todays notice paper one sees that on 5 March 1974  Senator Withers  gave notice that he intended to move the following motion: 
That the continued rundown of the Australian defence force, the erosion of our defence capacity and the deliberate understatement of Australia's vulnerability in a volatile world, are detrimental to the long-term security and wellbeing of the Australian people. 

 Senator Withers gave notice of that motion exactly one month ago. Today he moved, in accordance with standing order 64, this motion: 
That the Senate, at its rising, adjourn until tomorrow at 10.59 a.m.- for the purpose of debating a matter of urgency, namely, the alarming weakening of the Australian defence capability and capacity. 
If the motion of which  Senator Withers  gave notice one month ago was so urgent, and if our defences were run down and were not capable of defending this country, why has the honourable senator waited one month before bringing before the Senate this matter of urgency? It seems that we are getting close to an election and the old fear bogy is starting to raise its head. The Opposition wants the people of Australia to believe that there is a threat to Australia and that we are about to be invaded at any time. 
Soon after taking office the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  called for a fundamental assessment of Australia's strategic situation and outlook over the next 15 years. Of course, 15 years is a long time. Although we may not be able to look into the crystal ball and see what is likely to happen in the next 1 5 years, I feel that the attitude of, and the action taken by, the Government in regard to the defence of Australia are correct. In his statement to the House on 22 August 1973 the Minister outlined the results of that assessment. He stated that at that time the Australian security situation was favourable and that various important factors and trends in the international situation supported Australia's security into the longer term. These factors included international global developments affecting the relations between the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the United States of America, the strong interest of other major powers in the avoidance of conflict, and various developments nearer home in and between the countries within our own neighbouring region. The Minister pointed out that these developments strongly supported the Government's view that Australia was unlikely to come under strategic pressure or military threat, and that we could at this stage responsibly look to the future in reasonable confidence that no significant requirement was likely to arise for the operational commitment of our forces. It is this statement of the strategic situation and outlook to which the motion of which  Senator Withers  gave notice on 5 March refers and the charge means, although it does not state, that there has been a deliberate understatement of Australia 's vulnerability in a volatile world. 
For many years, at election after election, the Australian people have been brainwashed by the propaganda of fear that was put out by the opponents of Labor. The propaganda was to the effect that Australia was in danger of invasion from the north by the red peril and the yellow peril. These fear tactics were adopted until Prime Minister Gorton in 1969 saw the fallacy of them and decided that these tactics were wearing thin and that the people of Australia were beginning to realise that the propaganda was not to be taken seriously. Consequently the 1969 election was fought on domestic issues, and the government of the day almost fell. With the survival of the Liberal-Country Party Government at stake, the coalition reverted to its traditional behaviour. Talk of any lack of threat to our security had to be avoided. The Australian people had to be convinced that they were in danger of external threat. 
After the so-called dangerous and realistic pre-election acknowledgement of the fact that Australia was one of the most secure nations in the world, the Red and yellow peril campaign could only be made credible if supported by heavy expenditure on defence. In the first weeks of that new Parliament in 1970, a shopping list for defence hardware costing many hundreds of millions of dollars was presented to the Parliament. The Department of Defence and the Services had been forced to bring forward the list at a moment's notice without proper analysis and, indeed, with less consideration being given to it than the average family would give to the purchase of a new washing machine. The point was that it really did not matter what was purchased. The opponents of the Australian Labor Party knew that there was no threat, and they were spending the money, not primarily to acquire a defence capability, but merely to support and to give some semblance of credibility to the cheap attempt to use the politics of fear to divert the electorate 's attention away from our true foreign policy interests and our then social and economic problems. This attempt failed, as it deserved to fail, and the Whitlam Government was elected to office in December 1972. 
However, by the use of these tactics today the members of the Opposition are still attempting to create fear and uncertainty in the community. These are fear tactics of the worst type. One would have expected that they would have learned their lesson by now and that, in the words of the old saying, you cannot fool all of the people all of the time. It was on 2 December 1972 that this nation cast off its paranoia. Yet, here again, like Pavlov's dog the conservatives are trying to fool the people into believing that our country is in some sort of danger. It did not work in 1972 and it will not work now.  Senator Bishop,  who represents the Minister for Defence in the Senate, has pointed out just what the Australian Government is doing in regard to defence. He compared the strength of the Royal Australian Army at the present time with its strength in 1963. He mentioned the steps that were being taken by the Government to build up the Royal Australian Navy. He mentioned that the DDL program, which would have cost the people of Australia in the vicinity of $400m or more-- 
As  Senator Devitt  says, possibly it could have cost more. The plans were not even on the drawing board. Were we going to have another Fill aircraft fiasco? The Government took this into consideration and decided that it would not be viable to continue with this program.  Senator Bishop  has pointed out that the Minister for Defence will be making a statement in the very near future regarding what is to be done in respect to the Navy projects. 
Yes, but in 1963 an order was placed for F 1 1 1 aircraft. At that time, they were not even on the drawing board - 
We received them in 1973. 
I am not doubting this. 
I am not doubting this for a moment. I feel that they are a good aircraft and will be of benefit to the defence of Australia. I am not denying that. But the fact is that it took 10 years for Australia to acquire these aircraft. Yet, 

 Senator Marriott says that the Minister for Defence made this statement concerning the DDL program in 1973. That was a period of 12 months compared to a delay of 10 years in regard to the Fill aircraft. At least the Australian Government is trying to do something in regard to defence. 
There is no evidence to lead us to believe that there is a direct threat to Australia at the present time. As I said earlier, we cannot look into a crystal ball and see what will happen in 15 years time. But at least the Government is trying to build up our defences. We inherited run down defence forces. The only time that the strength of our defence forces reached any sort of capacity at all was when Australia became involved in the Vietnam war. The present Australian Government promised the people in 1972 that if it were elected to office Australia would withdraw from the Vietnam war and that national servicemen would be discharged. This is what happened. Approximately 10,000 or 12,000 national servicemen were discharged from the Army bringing the strength down to about what it is at the present time. The Minister for Defence has stated that at the moment the enlistment figure for the Army only is in the vicinity of 3 1 ,000 men and that this figure will be made up by voluntary enlistment until 1 976 when it is expected that the enlistment figure will be approximately 34,000 men. The Minister has stated that the enlistment numbers will remain at that level but that a further review will be made of the position and if necessary the numbers will be increased. It is all right to talk about the number of men in the defence forces, but it must be remembered that defence forces cost money. Although the expenditure for defence as given in the Defence Budget last year was less than it was in the previous year, the  Government  has, by its management of the defence of this country, been able to do what it promised to do in regard to the servicemen. I am talking of the 3 arms of the Services now.  Senator Bishop  cited the figures in regard to what has been done. On page 138, paragraph 340 of the report on defence reorganisation it is stated- it was mentioned by one of the Opposition speakers that - 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Davidson)-  Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Repatriation. Since the establishment of the School of Medicine at the Flinders University of South Australia, has any action been taken to enable a wider use of facilities at the Repatriation General Hospital, Daw Park, by medical students, in view of its proximity to Flinders University? 
My question is directed to the Minister Assisting the Minister for Defence. Because of the criticism of the Minister for Defence that the recent decision about procurement was for political purposes, I ask: Have the decisions on defence procurement been rushed forward as an election ploy? 
-Can the Minister representing the Minister for Defence inform me whether it is the intention to continue training Indonesian servicemen in interrogation methods at Woodside army camp? 
-I, too, on behalf of my colleagues from South Australia and my colleagues on the Government side, wish to associate myself with this motion of condolence to the late Joseph Sexton. I knew him for many years and was a close associate of his. He helped me on many occasions when I entered Parliament as a senator for South Australia. He was always ready to give me advice and assistance. He was a kindly and generous man. He was well revered and loved by his constituents from the electorate of Adelaide which he represented in the House of Representatives for so many years. He was a true Christian. As  Senator Davidson  has said, on leaving the Parliament he was appointed to the board of the Southern Cross Homes for the Aged in South Australia. He worked very hard on this board to enable it to carry out its work in housing aged people. I know from my contact with Joe Sexton that on many occasions when some of the people who had been housed by the Southern Cross Homes for the Aged needed maintenance assistance, he was always ready to give them that assistance. He was well respected and loved by his constituents in Adelaide. He always gave them advice and generous assistance in many ways, apart from the assistance and advice that he gave as a member of Parliament. He worked long hours, and he was always ready to give a helping hand and a smile to those in need. He was, as I said, revered and respected by the many people of his electorate because as those of us who knew him know he concentrated his efforts mainly in the field of social services. He spoke on this subject in many of his speeches in the House of Representatives, and he did all he possibly could to assist those who most needed assistance. He was a true family man, and I join with my colleagues and the Parliament in offering sincere condolences to his family. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for the Media. Has the Department of the Media established a mobile bookshop and inquiry centre? What plans does the Government have to establish such inquiry centres and bookshops throughout Australia? What has been the reception to these mobile units in the areas which they have visited so far? 
My question is addressed to the Postmaster-General. As the recent postal strike in New South Wales has meant that there is a backlog of mail awaiting delivery, can the Postmaster-General indicate what, if any, steps have been taken to clear up this backlog? If steps have been taken, how effective have they been? 
Can the PostmasterGeneral inform the Senate whether any action has been taken by his Department to establish a national satellite communications network to cater for the Australian internal communications need? 
-Will the Minister representing the Minister for Defence inform the Senate of the position regarding new enlistments into the Australian Regular Army? Has there been any increase in numbers? Will the Minister say whether there has been any improvement in the re-engagement rate? 
My question which is addressed to the Minister for the Media concerns a newspaper report yesterday of a seminar on overseas participation in the Australian film industry held by the Department of the Media in Sydney on Sunday. Was any consensus reached by the seminar and can the Minister inform me what the attitude of the Government is to overseas participation, firstly, concerning the investment of foreign capital in films made in Australia, and, secondly, in regard to coproductions with other countries involving the use of overseas creative talent? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Defence whether it is a fact that a team of Royal Navy personnel will be testing a surface to air missile called 'Seawolf at Woomera in the near future. Could the Minister indicate whether this means an increased work-load for personnel employed at Woomera? 
-Is the Postmaster-General in a position to give information as to when the new mail exchange being constructed in Gouger Street, Adelaide, will be completed? 
-Can the Minister representing the Minister for Defence inform the Senate whether there are any improvements or healthier trends in defence forces recruitment figures? What is the situation regarding officer resignations? 
-We are debating 2 Bills-the Post and Telegraph Rates Bill and the Post and Telegraph Bill- and also 2 amendments that have been moved by the Opposition. We have heard from Opposition senators nothing more than a diatribe about what happened in 1967. This shows the thinking of this outdated Opposition which cannot realise that things have changed very rapidly and that we are now living in the jet age and not in the horse and buggy days. Therefore, it seems to me that whatever this Government undertakes, it will not meet with any approval from the Opposition which wants to frustrate and which will hold up this legislation. Without repeating some of the one good speech in this debate that was made by  Senator McAuliffe,  I will give the reasons why I believe that this legislation should not be deferred as the amendments seek. I would like to read the amendment proposed to the Post and Telegraph Bill 1974, which is the same as the amendment moved to the Post and Telegraph Rates Bill 1974. The amendments were moved by  Senator Durack  and state: 
Leave out all words after 'That' and insert: as the proposals contained in the Bill are clearly inflationary the further consideration of the Bill be deferred until the Government introduces its Budget for 1974-1975 so that the proposals contained in the Bill can be examined in the context of the Government's total financial program for the current year'. 
Casting my mind back to 1967, 1 remember that it was for that very reason that the then Opposition moved for the deferment of the increased postal charges. It stated that the increases should have been deferred because it would be only a few weeks until the presentation of the Budgetthe same circumstances that we have at the present time. It was stated that the proposals should be deferred until a full debate could be held during the Budget session. Of course, we were criticised for doing this. Yet here we have the Opposition, which then formed the Government, bringing forward almost identical amendments to that which was moved by the previous 
Opposition. I cannot see that there is any sincerity in what the Opposition is trying to do. I believe that should debate on the Bills be deferredit looks as though it will be now- the Post Office will fall further and further behind. I will point to the Senate why I believe that this is so.  Mr Deputy President,  you must remember that the Labor Government finds no joy in increasing any cost to the community. 
It might fool some people, but the people generally are not very easily fooled. I believe that the deferment of these Bills will have a detrimental effect upon the Post Office in the following way: The Post Office is losing money on its operations. This was pointed out in the second reading speech of the Postmaster-General  (Senator Bishop)  when he said that if the 1973-74 trading results could be examined they would show at least a break-even position. This has been mentioned by speakers from the Opposition side. This year at current tariffs the overall loss will be in excess of $ 100m with a postal loss of well over $70m. The increasing of postal charges is not new. It was a principle followed by the previous Government which set charges at a level which covered costs and purchases and allowed for a reasonable profit which could be reinvested to help finance expansion of the Post Office. 

 - Senator Sheil is opposing these increases also; so there is no difference, really. 
-We know that there are many good examples that the Opposition could follow, but I do not see it following them. One of the recommendations of the Vernon Commission of Inquiry is that it is necessary to increase charges for services provided by the Post Office. Not only does the report state that it is necessary to increase charges at this point of time but also it goes on to state that it will be necessary to increase them in the future. It is stated in the third paragraph on page 186 of the report: 
It is not possible to calculate simply the tariff increases necessary to offset these present and prospective future trading losses, since changes in tariffs affect demand. 
This is one of the points made by  Senator McAuliffe  during his speech. The report goes on to state: 
In the case of postal services, past experience shows that demand generally drops for a period following a substantial tariff increase - 
Again, this is what  Senator McAuliffe  mentioned in his speech-  and then resumes its normal upward course; the estimation of change in earnings following a tariff change becomes a matter of judgment. The APO has carried out a certain amount of work on the elasticity of demand for its services but interpretation of their results presents difficulties. Nor is it necessary for the Commission to attempt precise estimating; it is sufficient for the purposes of the present discussion to indicate the likely order of magnitude of the tariff changes that would be necessary if costs continue to increase at the assumed rate. Under these conditions, the Commission concludes that postal tariffs will have to increase over the next few years at the average rate of about 15 per cent per annum if the profit and loss account for postal services is to be brought into reasonable balance and the large and escalating losses projected in Table 7.7 avoided. To place this rate of tariff increase in perspective, if the present ordinary letter rate of seven cents increases at 15 per cent per annum it would rise to 10c in less than three years and to 12c in about four years time. 
Articles that appeared in newspapers 3 weeks ago stated that the next increase in postal charges would raise the ordinary letter rate to 10c, and that there would be another increase which would take it to 12c. 
I am not an economist, but I am accepting them as they are stated in the report. 
This was a Commission of inquiry into the Australian Post Office set up by the Government. Of course, one could draw a parallel between this commission and the commission which was appointed to report on the salaries received by members of Parliament. 
These commissions are not set up just to bring down any report at all. People do not sit on them for fun. These commissions have the same objectives as our Senate committees. Do we sit on them for fun? Is their function just to bring down a report? Do we sit on those committees just to get our names written on the cover of a report? I think that members of these commissions sit on them for the same reason as we sit on Senate standing and select committees- that is, to do a proper job. 
If the honourable senator thinks that this report is wrong, I have no doubt that he will take the opportunity to further criticise it when he gets up to make his speech. The estimated profit of about $60m is comparable with the profits in 1971-72 and 1972-73. Therefore, as  Senator McAuliffe  also pointed out, these increases cannot be called excessive. 
Rejection or deferment of the increases would cause a greater telephone waiting list and would greatly affect the telecommunications industry. Last week, or the week before, the Opposition made great play about the closure of the electronics industry in South Australia. Members of the Opposition said that Government action would throw a great number of men out of work. But they made no mention of the fact that 2 years ago a section of the same industry was closed down and moved to another State for economic reasons. However, we will have to have a grave look at this proposal if it will have an effect on the telecommunications industry. I believe that if implementation of these charges were deferred until after the Budget, Post Office receipts this year would be affected by $30m. Rejection of the increases altogether would decrease expected income by $146m, which is the target set out in the Bill. (Quorum formed.) 
The Postmaster-General pointed out in his second reading speech that the Government is firmly committed to no increase in borrowing under the Budget over last year's level of $385m. Therefore, if the increased tariffs do not operate from 1 August the Post Office capital program will have to be reduced substantially or tariffs raised to a higher level than currently proposedfor example, an extra $5 on rentals and a 10c basic postage rate. If the reduction in receipts results in a heavy cut in the capital works program, orders on the telecommunications industry for tens of millions of dollars worth of material will need to be deferred and in other areas no further orders will be placed. What effect will this have on the telecommunications industry? This area alone employs 20,000 people who must be affected by any cuts that are made in this area. Also, a $32m cut would mean at least 40,000 fewer telephone connections than had been planned. This would mean that the waiting list for telephones would rise to about 156,000, which would be the highest figure for 18 years. If there were a cut of $ 146m, 20 per cent of the Post Office capital investment program for 1974-75 would have to go and the waiting list would skyrocket to such a degree that the Post Office would be virtually a year behind in its capital investment. Should this happen the Government will ensure that the outer areas, where the need is greatest, will suffer least. This will mean that business communities will have to do without phones in their factories, offices and shops. The Government will tell them the reason. The Opposition's amendment will be carried, and this will mean that capital works will have to be deferred. I feel that the Opposition is taking a retrograde step and this should not happen.  Senator Lawrie  in his contribution to the Senate mentioned what pensioners would get out of these increases. Iff might be permitted to digress for a short period, I would say that since the Labor Government came into office pensions have been increased by 55 per cent. This 55 per cent increase is far above the rate of 20 per cent at which inflation is running. I feel that the amendments should be defeated and I hope the Senate defeats them. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. Has any decision been made by the Minister for Defence in connection with the representations that were made to him regarding amenities and other matters at the Woodside Army camp during his recent inspection of it- an inspection on which I had the pleasure of accompanying him? 
-Has the attention of the Postmaster-General been drawn to reports appearing in the South Australian Press which state that public telephone booths in that State have been destroyed? Can the Minister inform the Senate as to what action has been taken by the Postmaster-General's Department to protect itself against this vandalism? 
Has the attention of the Postmaster-General been drawn to a recent report in the Adelaide 'Advertiser' detailing a scheme which, on implementation, would provide the automatic relaying of telephone calls from unattended police stations to patrol cars? Can he say whether any steps have been taken to provide this facility to the public? 
Can the PostmasterGeneral say whether any provisions are available to enterprises or individuals who wish to advertise in a foreign language in the pink pages of telephone directories, and so provide a useful facility to the migrant population of Australia? 
-Can the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security inform the Senate of the amount by which the standard pension rate has increased in the last 10 years and, in particular, since 1972? Can the Minister also inform the Senate as to the present percentage ratio of the pension to the average weekly wage, compared with the percentage ratio of 1972? 
I ask the Minister for the Media: Has there been any success in employing local musicians to make recordings for use in the background music system known as Muzak? If discussions have taken place with the company, when will the local musicians make the recordings? 
-Can the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation say whether repatriation pensions can be paid into credit union accounts? 
My question is addressed to the Postmaster-General who represents the Minister for Labor and Immigration. Has the Minister seen Press reports of a survey taken by the Centre for Urban Research and Action amongst Italian migrants living in the northern suburbs of Melbourne? The survey alleged that Italian migrants, for a variety of reasons, generally were deprived of the normal community services provided by the Australian and State Governments. Can the Minister arrange for this survey to be studied by the Australian Government to ascertain whether its findings are correct? If they are correct can action be taken to help alleviate the social and economic circumstances in which these migrants find themselves? 
-Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Defence been drawn to recent publicity about the success of the Royal Australian Air Force Central Band resulting particularly from recordings of wartime songs? Some reports indicate that the only gain for the Government and the RAAF Band is one of prestige. Will the Minister discuss with the Minister for Defence whether new arrangements might apply in future to allow reasonable royalties to be set aside for RAAF welfare projects or related Services projects? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Transport whether he has seen recent Press reports which state that the Royal Automobile Association of South Australia Inc. has conducted field tests which show that the Datsun 120Y sedan has a defective seat belt fitting? Can the Minister give any information on what action the Department of Transport is taking to investigate these claims? 
Can the PostmasterGeneral advise the Senate whether there have been any further developments regarding the use of battery powered vehicles for postal operations? 
-Can the PostmasterGeneral give any indication whether the Government is considering any new provisions which will benefit those who are commencing an interest in amateur radio operatons? 
My question is addressed to the Postmaster-General who represents the Minister for Defence. Have any studies been made, or are any in the process of being made, of the future of Woomera? 
My question is directed to the Postmaster-General. It concerns the effect of cyclone Tracy upon the operation of Radio Australia from the Cox Peninsula near Darwin. Can the Minister give any further details on the action which the Government has taken to restore Radio Australia to its full operational strength? 
-I ask the PostmasterGeneral in his capacity as representative of the Minister for Defence: Has his attention been drawn to a newspaper report on Tuesday which stated that the Minister has decided to obtain a new class of patrol boat? 
I ask the PostmasterGeneral whether, in view of his answer to a question asked yesterday about the establishment of a temporary radio transmitting facility in Western Australia he can give any indication as to the overall future role of Radio Australia? 
I direct my question to the Postmaster-General, representing the Minister for Transport. I refer to the recent decision of the Minister for Transport,  Mr Charles  Jones, and of Qantas Airways, to resume the free carriage of relief supplies from Australia for displaced people in Cyprus. Does the Minister know of requests by the Cypriot community of South Australia for free transportation of relief supplies from Adelaide to Qantas in Sydney, and can he say what action is being taken in consideration of this request? 
I direct a question to the Postmaster-General. In reply to a question I asked him on 5 March he said that he was considering the introduction of a licence at a reduced fee for those who have just begun their activities as amateur radio operators. Is he in a position yet to give a firm indication of when such a reduced fee will be introduced? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. Recently the Opposition spokesman on defence matters,  Mr Killen,  criticised the Government decision to give patrol boats and aircraft to Indonesia. He implied that the Government's decision had bewildered senior naval officers. Can the Minister give any background information on why this decision was made? 
-In the absence of the  Chairman  of the Publications Committee,  Senator Milliner,  I bring up the seventh report from that Committee. 
Report- by leave- adopted. 
My question, which is directed to the Postmaster-General, relates to the incidence of subscriber trunk dialling telephone calls. Can the Minister give any information as to the number of STD calls compared with the number of calls made through trunk line exchanges? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to a report in the Melbourne 'Age' of 12 May in which Admiral  Sir Richard  Peek, a former Chief of Naval Staff, was reported as having accused the Government of wasting almost $2m by cancelling the DDL destroyer program? Can the Minister advise the Senate whether the report is correct? 
-Is the Minister for the Media aware that a film produced by the South Australian Film Corporation called 'Sunday Too Far Away' has received high praise at the Cannes Film Festival? Can the Minister say whether this film has received Government support in its production and distribution? 
The 3 Bills that we are discussing were introduced by the Postmaster-General  (Senator Bishop)  to implement the Government's decision to establish Postal and Telecommunications Commissions.  Mr Acting Deputy President,  I believe that your contribution to the Senate this afternoon has more than answered all the criticism and opposition that have been levelled at these Bills. The 3 Bills are the final product of a decision taken by the Government in January 1973 to establish a Commission of Inquiry to conduct a comprehensive examination of the Postmaster-General's Department. As has been mentioned by speakers who have preceded me in this debate, the Commission of Inquiry into the Australian Post Office was chaired by an eminent Australian,  Sir James  Vernon. The Commission's report was presented to  His Excellency  the Governor-General in April 1974. The Government accepted several major recommendations made by the Commission. These were that the postal and telecommunications services would be separated and would in the future be provided by 2 statutory authorities which would be independent of the Public Service Board on matters of organisation, staff, pay and conditions of service. The purpose of the Bills before the Senate is to implement those recommendations of the Commission. 
For some considerable time the unions which have members employed by the PostmasterGeneral's Department have asked for an inquiry into the workings of the Post Office, and for the Post Office to be formed into a commission. They have been most anxious that this should be done. Except for the one organisation which has members employed by the Overseas Telecommunications Commission, the other unions which have members employed by the PostmasterGeneral's Department have supported the proposal to form the Post Office into a commission because the unions believe that is the only way in which their problems can be solved reasonably and within a reasonable time.  Senator Durack  said that he was opposed to the incorporation of the Overseas Telecommunications Commission into one of the commissions to be established under these Bills. He criticised  Mr A.  G. Gibbs, the  Chairman  of the Overseas Telecommunications Commission, for the Press statement that he made on this matter. I believe that  Mr Gibbs'  statement should be read to the Senate.  Mr Gibbs  said: 
There have been emotional statements, misleading statements and mis-statements about the position of OTC in respect to the proposed Australian Telecommunications Commission. OTC will not be submerged. It will merge with the ATC- as an entity, reporting to ATC's managing director. 

 Senator Durack said that one member of the board of OTC opposed the merger of OTC into the proposed Telecommunications Commission and also that 80 per cent of the people working in the OTC opposed the merger.  Mr Gibbs  went on to say: 
A clear majority of members of the OTC board support the merger. Additionally all members of the Interim Australian Telecommunications Commission endorse the decision to retain the overseas unit as an entity within the new Commission subject to the normal corporate approach in consideration of such matters as personnel, finance and industrial relations. 
Putting things in perspective it should be noted that only 0.S per cent of all telephone calls originated in Australia are overseas calls. This is one call in every 2000. They are all handled by Post Office telephonists. 
In your speech,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  you mentioned 33c as the amount that the Post Office receives for the work that it does in helping to transmit these calls overseas.  Mr Gibbs  continued: 
In the near future people will dial their overseas calls direct just as today they use STD throughout Australia. 
What will happen to OTC when overseas calls can be dialled direct? Ten years ago we did not visualise that we would be able to make a telephone call from Canberra to Western Australia without going through the trunk line section of the Post Office. Today we can dial a number in Western Australia as quickly as we can dial a local number. I think it is worth while quoting the rest of  Mr Gibbs'  Press statement. He continued: 
The national and international networks will be one. Modern technology shows that this should be so- for example today's international satellite systems are tomorrow's national satellite systems. The international telecommunications traffic of today and the future depends on the national network to give the customer access. 
There are no sound reasons why the national and international networks should not be planned together, operated together and presented to the customer as one system for his or her use. 
Common planning, operating and financing is important if advantage is to be taken of modern technologies and economies secured. Australia should not lag behind other countries in doing this. Surely the objective must be to give Australians overall the best and cheapest telecommunications service whether they are using it for local or overseas messages. Integration not separation of the management of the national and international services is the only way to achieve this. 
I believe that statement by  Mr Gibbs  certainly supports the proposal to merge the OTC into the Telecommunications Commission to be established under these Bills. Some fears have been raised as to whether the staffs of the Post Office and of the other authorities will be affected by this merger. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
Prior to the suspension of the sitting I said that 10 years ago we did not visualise that at some future date we would be able to dial direct from Canberra to Western Australia almost as quickly as we could dial a local telephone number. This has been brought about by the advance in technology and the expertise within the Postmaster-General 's Department. There is a possibility that the same type of subscriber trunk dialling could be used to call overseas numbers. Let us examine this possibility. With so many different forms of communication today, such as satellite communication, it is within the realms of possibility that at some near time we will be able to direct dial to overseas countries. Whether it is called subscriber trunk dialling or international trunk dialling does not really matter. It is something that we have to contemplate. With the expertise we have in the Postmaster-General's Department and with the knowledge that other countries have gained this is a very strong possibility. 
I believe we could gain from the knowledge of people not only in the United States of America but also in other countries. Of course, telephonic communication ( between countries is very expensive. Whilst  Senator Wright  and I were in New York,  Senator Wright  dialled Hobart on one occasion. The cost was about $17 for, I believe, 3 minutes. If international subscriber dialling came about and the Overseas Telecommunications Commission were not merged with the Australian Telecommunications Commission, there is a strong possibility that the OTC would be no longer required. I feel that the merging of the OTC with the ATC will help overcome the possibility of the OTC becoming redundant. 

 Senator Scott in his speech said that the Opposition was not totally opposed to the measures contained in the Bill but could not support the merger of the OTC because a sufficient case had not been made out for it by the Government. I repeat that with the advance in technology in the field of communications the OTC in any case eventually would have to merge with the ATC. It would be a pity if the OTC remained outside the ATC because we possibly could lose a lot of the expertise now within the OTC. Concern was also expressed by the Opposition senators with the problems sparsely populated areas and remote areas and the possibility of their not being able to communicate with the outside world. If those honourable senators had read the statement of the Postmaster-General  (Senator Bishop)  on the proposed postal and telecommunications districts they would have seen that 96 per cent of the population resides within 80 kilometres of a district centre. So there would not be a great number of people in remote areas who would be great distances from a district centre. Again, with the advance in communications and the expertise in the Post Office, these people could be brought quickly into communication with the rest of the country. 
We have heard a lot about the justification for the merging of the OTC with the ATC. It appears from the Vernon report that there was considered to be some conflict in respect of the division of functions. These overlapping responsibilities mean that problems over division of functions could arise not only in operational fields but also in planning, research and development, finance, marketing and in the customer relations field. Two of the Commissioners, Messrs Callaghan and Kennedy, considered that issues such as conflict over financial arrangements, relationships with customers and division of operational responsibilities are symptomatic of problems of divided control. For instance, the present arrangements for billing and customer relations introduced elements of confusion for customers. There have been conflicts over OTC advertisements to promote the use of a service at a time when the Commission has been unable to meet the resultant demand on the international network. The majority view of the Vernon Commission was that placing responsibility for both national and international telecommunications with one statutory body will overcome problems caused by divided control and conflicting objectives. Also, increasingly national and international telecommunications systems are merging through developing technology and I mention 2 examples here. The first is international subscriber dialling which means that Australian subscribers would be able to dial direct a number in another country. It would involve interaction of both national and international systems. The second example is that overseas telephone accounting would merge further into the domestic system as international subscriber dialling is introduced. At present, all billing for telephone services is carried out by the PostmasterGeneral's Department. 
I mentioned prior to the dinner adjournment that  Senator McAuliffe  had referred to the amount that the Post Office was receiving from OTC. International telephone channels are being used to transmit information in data form under the present system of separate responsibility for national and international systems. The question of whose responsibility this new service is becomes one of whether the service is by nature a telephone or telegram service. The incorporation of both the national and international systems into one telecommunications authority will enable the planning and development of all facilities to proceed to provide an integrated telecommunications service. The majority of the members of the Vernon Commission also considered that the merging of the 2 systems would ensure that there is no unnecessary duplication of plant, equipment and other resources. They also suggested that a merger would enable tariffs for local, trunk and international calls to be considered at the same time to provide a balanced tariff structure. In relation to tariffs, the Commission thought it was unfair that taxes should be levied on international calls and not on local or trunk calls in that the Overseas Telecommunications Commission pays taxes while the Department is exempt from the payment of taxes. 
I think  Senator Durack  was concerned about what would happen to the staffs when the merger took place. The majority of the members of the Vernon Commission considered that a single organisation will offer to the staff of both organisations better career prospects and better scope for advancement. The Overseas Telecommunications Commission at present employs only 2000 people whereas the proposed Australian Telecommunications Commission will employ 90 000. 1 think this should prove to  Senator Durack  that there is a strong case for the merger of the 2 organisations without any effect upon the staff. 
The majority of the Commission also noted the considerable number of overseas countries that operate their international and national telecommunications through one organisation. In both Britain and New Zealand one organisation only handles all telecommunications. In Canada there are separate authorities but the internal network is operated by private companies. I believe that the service to the public will be improved by the merging of the Overseas Telecommunications Commission into the Australian 
Telecommunications Commission. The setting up of separate Commissions will certainly help to bring this about. Therefore I support the Bills. 
-I ask the Minister for the Media whether it is true that there has been a considerable increase in the demand by the Australian public for the services of the government bookshops and Publications and Inquiry Centres? If this is true, what steps is the Minister taking to augment these services? Will these steps involve extending the centres to country areas? 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for Defence give any further information as to the situation regarding the future of the Woomera rocket range in South Australia? Last October the Minister for Defence announced that the Woomera range would be run down and placed on a care and maintenance basis. Have there been any further developments in relation to this matter? 
My question is addressed to the Postmaster-General, representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration, and refers to the operation of the Australian Government's Regional Employment Development scheme. Can the Minister provide any figures indicating the number of unemployed persons who have been re-employed under the scheme? 
-Has the Minister for Foreign Affairs noted that the AustcareFreedom from Hunger joint organisation will make an Australia-wide appeal for funds this coming Sunday? Will the Minister explain the Government's policy in relation to aid for the needy overseas and the place of private initiatives in this sphere? 
-In the  absence of the  Chairman  of the Publications Committee,  Senator Milliner,  I bring up the eighth report from the Publications Committee. 
Report- by leave- adopted. 
I preface my question to the Postmaster-General by saying that some time ago I asked him a question regarding the introduction of courier services and the possible date of commencement. Is the Minister in a position to confirm the possible dates of commencement and the cities in which the services will be introduced? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Urban and Regional Development aware that his colleague tabled in another place the Rudman report on Hallett Cove in South Australia? Can the Minister advise whether his colleague has decided upon any action pursuant to the report? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Transport whether he is in a position to give further information regarding steps the Government has taken to seal the Eyre Highway in South Australia. When is the work likely to be completed? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Transport: What action has been taken to improve fettlers ' accommodation on the Australian Government railways? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, refers to recent announcements concerning major defence equipment purchases of aircraft, frigates and tanks. As all this equipment has been purchased overseas, can the Minister inform me of the arrangements being made to ensure participation by Australian industry in the projects? 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Transport been drawn to the increasing number of enthusiasts involved in hang gliding in South Australia? If so, can the Minister inform the Senate whether it is intended to introduce regulations covering this sporting activity? 
-Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Defence been drawn to Press comments that resignations from the armed forces are on the increase? If so, will the Minister inform the Senate of the current position in relation to officer resignations from the defence forces? 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Defence been drawn to recent Press reports concerning engine failure and the subsequent grounding of the F 1 1 1 aircraft of the United States Air Force? If so, have the F1 1 1 aircraft of the Royal Australian Air Force been grounded, and what effect has that had on the capability of the RAAF? 
-The Defence Force Re-organization Bill 1 975 is the culmination of discussions over the years with the various sections of the defence forces. Not only has it been discussed over the past 3 years since the Labor Government has been in office; there also was talk about a reorganisation of the defence forces in 1958. 1 will touch on this a little later in my speech. There are 2 beliefs within the Australian Labor Party on defence policy. The first is that there must be recognition of the vital role of maintaining national security. If one reads a statement on the re-organisation of the defence group of departments made by the former  Deputy  Prime Minister and Minister for Defence,  Mr Barnard,  on 4 December 1973 this fact is borne out. In that statement the then Minister said: 
The defence of this country is too important a matter to bc administered by a demonstrably inefficient grouping of organisations whose objectives are not always the same, whose functions are sometimes duplicated and whose very existence as separate bureaucracies bedevils great affairs with unnecessary conflicts. As from last Friday - 
I remind honourable senators that this statement was made on 4 December 1973 -  the separate Departments of Navy, Army and Air ceased to exist and a new Department of Defence was created. 
Within the framework of the Department of Defence the 3 Service Boards will continue to operate on a temporary basis. The Minister for Defence will remain President of the Military Board and the Naval Board but the civilian members of all 3 boards will now be nominees of the Secretary of the Department of Defence. The Department of Supply continues in existence, financed from the Defence Vote, under a directive from the Prime Minister maintaining at least for the time being a relationship with the Department of Defence through which the Minister for Supply and the Minister for Defence collaborate in the execution of relevant defence policies. The Department of Supply will continue to participate in Defence committees. 
The second belief of the Government and of the Labor Party is that membership of the armed forces is as necessary an occupation as any job which forms part of the national economy. I believe that defence should not be treated as a sacred cow for which the public should pay but show no other interest. Defence, since it is as much a part of our community as any other activity, should involve all Australians in the same way as any other community activity and should not be used for political expediency. Those involved in providing defence needs should be regarded by our community as equal to those involved in any other occupation. For these reasons the Government rejects excessive scare campaigns and foreign adventurism as the basis of defence policy and as an excuse for defence action. Providing adequate defence should be like any other government responsibility. It should be the subject of searching analysis and careful planning. Members of the armed forces are recognised as professionals with a responsibility to maintain and develop skills which might be needed to defend Australia. Professional skills cannot be developed unless the individual is highly motivated and has exercised his freedom of choice to select his occupation. 
Because defence is an integral part of Australian life, decisions on defence which reflect our relations with other nations should not be made against the background of Australia's basic interest. We should not reject alliances or downgrade friends but should be prepared to assert our requirements where necessary by developing independence and self reliance in defence policy. Within that policy the Australian Government has introduced the legislation that is now before the Senate for the re-organisation of the Department of Defence so that the individual Service departments- Army, Navy and Air Force- are eliminated. However, the men and women in the Services will retain their separate entities but will be responsible to the Minister. This re-organisation is being made in the interests of efficiency and cost and is the biggest public service reshuffle to occur in the last quarter of a century. When the re-organisation is completed the Australian defence system, I believe, will be one of the most efficient in the world. 
When I began my speech I said that it had taken about 3 years for this Bill to come before the Parliament and that some years ago, in 1958, it was recommended that the defence forces should be integrated into one department.  Sir Robert  Menzies, in a speech recorded in  Hansard  on 1 9 March 1 958 at page 436, said: 
The authority of the Department of Defence, which should be clear and commanding, has come to be regarded as uncertain in various particulars. The existence of separate Service departments, although it has advantages, tends to make it difficult to get truly unified joint service views. Sometimes it may make those views amount to a somewhat uneasy compromise between honestly maintained but conflicting conception and interests. 
On 2 May 1968,  Sir Allen  Fairhall said, as recorded in  Hansard  at page 1083: 
Operational and technological factors tend to pull the Services closer together . . . We, however, retain the conviction that the separate identities of the three Services should be maintained, but this does not mean that, in  every  respect, the status quo should be maintained. 
I believe that the proposals in the Bill accord entirely with the views expressed by  Sir Robert  Menzies and  Sir Allen  Fairhall. The Bill seeks, some 1 7 years later, to rectify the difficulty identified by  Sir Robert.  At the same time, it avoids the danger pointed out by  Sir Allen  and does not attempt to abolish the separate Services. The Bill thus represents a sound attack on the main difficulty which has plagued our defence management for almost 20 years- that of a Service voice fragmented by bickering and poor organisation- while preserving separate Service identities. 
The Opposition has proposed that the Bill be referred to the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, and that a report be brought down by 20 November. I believe that it would be very difficult for the Committee to bring down a report by that time because at the moment it is considering its report on the reference given to it on the Cocos (Keeling) Islands. It has also made a start on a second reference given to it for an investigation of the refugee problem. That reference has been advertised in the Press and the Committee has received many submissions. To ask the Committee to embark on another reference, the report on which would have to be presented to the Senate by 20 November, would, I feel, be placing too big a responsibility on the Committee to enable it to give the matter the consideration it needs. If the matter were not considered by that time, it could be left over until the next session of Parliament or even the next Budget session. Although moves have been made for the reorganisation of the Services, I feel that the Bill should not be held up. For those reasons I believe that the proposal made by the Opposition should not be agreed to by the Senate. 
The work of the Senate Standing Committee is hard and has been arduous over the last 12 months or even the last 3 years. To place on the Committee a further burden, as would happen if the Opposition's proposal were agreed to, would be to place on it a difficult task. Other members of the Senate may not agree with me, but I think it would be a difficult task for the Committee to bring down a report by 22 November. I know that at all times the Committee has the right to ask for an extension of time in the bringing down of a report, but to do so would prolong the passing of this Bill which I think is a most necessary Bill and one which should be passed as quickly as possible. With those few remarks I indicate my opposition to the Opposition's proposal and my support for the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Bishop)  adjourned. 

 Sitting suspended from 12.41 to 2.15 p.m. 

-Can the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation give any details of the effects on the repatriation appeals system of the changed policy whereby determining authorities give reasons for their decisions when deciding on entitlement for veterans? Has this reform of the repatriation system, which was introduced at the instigation of the Labor Government, been an effective one? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. I ask: Is the Minister aware of the disquieting rumours that are current in South Australia regarding the future of the Army camp at Woodside in South Australia? As those rumours are causing grave concern among the personnel at the Woodside camp can the Minister supply any information as to the future of the camp? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Police and Customs. In discussing the formation of the Australia Police last night the Minister spoke of the advantages of having a computer service located in Canberra and made available to State police forces. Is it the Government's intention that State police forces will have access to the computer facilities of the Australia Police? 
Has the attention of the Minister for Labor and Immigration been drawn to a Press statement appearing in the Melbourne  Sun  of 3 September that Victoria lost 128 300 man weeks or 2500 man years of production time last year through industrial accidents? Is this position brought about because of the lack of inspection of the safety measures taken in industry or is it because the employers are not using the proper methods of preventing accidents in industry? 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Defence: Can he inform the Senate of the current position in relation to the proposed purchase by the Australian Army of Nomad aircraft? 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Defence seen recent Press comment which suggests that the Government is reluctant to encourage servicemen's associations or unions being formed? Will the Minister inform me of the Government's views on this matter? 
-I ask the Special Minister of State: Is it a fact that the Industries Assistance Commission Act provides that a temporary assistance authority can make recommendations only on tariffs and import restrictions? Can the Minister advise what action, if any, is being taken to ensure consideration of the needs of particular industries for short term financial assistance? 
My question is directed to the Postmaster-General. Recently the PostmasterGeneral advised the Senate that an Australia Post courier service would be introduced in Sydney, Melbourne and Canberra and that terminal services would be set up simultaneously in other capital cities. Is the Minister now in a position to advise when the services will commence? When is a complete courier service proposed for Adelaide? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. Has the Minister for Transport recently approved further grants for South Australia under the Minor Improvements for Traffic Engineering and Road Safety scheme-MITERS? Will the Minister indicate the extent of funds being made available and how they will be used? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister Assisting the Minister of Defence, concerns Australian industry participation in defence equipment purchases. I refer the Minister to a Press report in the Adelaide  Advertiser  concerning the Government's recent decision to purchase the Rapier missile system for the Australian Army. As this purchase is of United Kingdom origin, I ask the Minister: What arrangements are being made to involve Australian industry in the project, and what is the extent of Australian manufacture? 
My question is directed to the Postmaster-General. It relates to the quarterly billing of telephone accounts, a system which is already operating in Sydney and Melbourne. Can the Postmaster-General inform the Senate when it is expected that the service will be extended to other States? What benefits does the system offer to subscribers? 
My question is directed to the Minister assisting the Minister for Defence. I refer to reports concerning engine failure of a Royal Australian Air Force Chinook helicopter which crashed at Amberley some time ago. Are the restrictions which were imposed on the aircraft at the time still in force? What has been the effect on RAAF operations? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence and concerns the recent passage of the Defence Force Re-organisation Bill, which provided for the reorganisation and integration of the Department of Defence. Is the Minister aware of any unrest within the defence forces following suggestions that this measure is the forerunner to integration of the Services themselves along the lines of the pattern adopted by Canada? What is the Government's attitude to such suggestions? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to a Press report of last week in which it was stated that Qantas Airways Ltd is to soup up some of its Boeing 747 jumbo jets to give them greater reliability and higher carrying capacity? Why are these modifications being made? Will there be any variation in noise levels as a result? 
-I ask the PostmasterGeneral whether he has seen an article in an airline magazine concerning an improved telephone service to facilitate booking arrangements for passengers from small centres. If so, can the 
Minister say when the improved facilities will operate? 
Is the Postmaster-General aware that the cessation of station reports transmitted by the Overseas' Telecommunications Commission coast station, Melbourne VIM, is affecting the operating and planning activities of tuna boats? Will the Government consider the reintroduction of such broadcasts? 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Defence been drawn to the loss of a Royal Australian Navy Sea King helicopter near Jervis Bay earlier this week? Are efforts being made to recover the helicopter and will such efforts be successful? Has the Minister any information to give the Senate as to the cause of the accident? 
Has the Minister for Social Security and Minister for Repatriation and Compensation seen a report in the  Sunday Telegraph  claiming that the proposed national rehabilitation and compensation scheme will contribute to financial disaster? Does the Minister have any information on the operation of the New Zealand scheme which is given as evidence to support this view? How much study has been made and is being made of the New Zealand scheme? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. I refer to widespread Press reports concerning a full scale alert which was raised yesterday when a Royal Australian Navy submarine was feared missing. Is the Minister able to provide any information about the incident? What procedures have been developed for search and rescue when such incidents occur? 
My question is directed to the Minister Assisting the Minister for Defence. I refer him to a report that the Balmoral naval hospital will not treat civilian divers because of Federal Budget cuts. Is this statement, which is attributed to  Dr Carl  Edmunds, correct? Did  Dr Edmunds  resign from the naval school of underwater medicine in protest at this decision? 
My question is addressed to the Postmaster-General, representing the Minister for Defence, and relates to a recent Press announcement by the Minister for Defence concerning the invitation to a number of Australian and overseas shipbuilders to tender for the supply of patrol craft for the Royal Australian Navy. I note that half the tenderers are overseas companies and ask the Minister: What assurance cart he give in relation to Australian industry participation in the project should the successful tenderer be an overseas company? 
Has the PostmasterGeneral seen an article in a weekend newspaper which referred to a device being developed by Datatronics to assist deaf people to communicate over the telephone system? Is the Australian 
Telecommunications Commission aware of these developments? 
My question is directed to the Special Minister of State. Has his attention been drawn to the letter published this morning in the  Australian Financial Review  from  Mr 
Bevan M. Roberts, General Manager, Kawasaki Motor Cycles (N.S.W.), Sydney, complaining about the time and money consuming processes of the Prices Justification Tribunal in investigating a possible case of over-charging? As  Mr Roberts  has included the text of a letter he received from the Tribunal asking for information on a charge of $4 for fitting a tube to a motor cycle, does the Minister agree with  Mr Roberts'  apparent view that the Tribunal should not be concerning itself with such a comparatively minor matter? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. Is he aware of a report in the  Australian  of Thursday, 6 November 1975, which contains an allegation by the New South Wales Minister for Culture, Sport and Recreation that  Sir Arthur  Tange, the Permanent Head of the Department of Defence, had misled the Government by recommending that school cadets be disbanded? Is there any substance in the allegation? What was the basis of the Government's decision to disband the Cadet Corps? 
