I ask a question of the Leader of the Government in the Senate. In view of the Governor-General's statement today that 'my Government will continue to support the principles of the United Nations' will the Minister say whether the Government supports the 
United Nations Declaration of Human Rights which provides that no country should exile a person or deprive him of the right to leave or return to his own country? 
I should like to ask the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport my final question for the day. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Civil Aviation. I do not know whether I need remind the Minister that the passenger terminal at Western Junction which serves Launceston and the northern area of Tasmania equals anything in the Commonwealth in design and appearance but lacks equality in respect of facilities provided in the dining room. Has the Department of Civil Aviation placed restrictions on the services available to air travellers using the Launceston airport dining room concession? If so, will the Minister have an inquiry made into this anomaly with a view to permitting full dining room service being made available at the airport at any time when aircraft are arriving or departing? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development. By way of preface I mention that there is a widespread interest throughout Australia, particularly in the northern area of Tasmania, in the future of the wood chip industry and that evidently there has been a dispute between the Japanese traders in this commodity and the Department of National Development over the price for wood chips. In view of the growing importance of this export industry, will the Government consider setting up under the Industrial Research and Development Grants Act an industry of our own in Australia to absorb our forest products, many of which we have to import, and to provide for the full development and manufacture of the end products of wood chips, thus promoting primary industry and decentralisation? 
I would like to make a few comments on the proposal put forward by  Senator Willesee.  The proposal appeals to me for the simple reason that we would be able to. do the same amount of work in 2 weeks as we now do in 3 weeks inasmuch as there would be a difference of only half an hour in the respective times available to honourable senators to carry out the business of the Senate. I think that honourable senators should look for an opportunity to reduce the amount of travelling they now undertake, ft may be only a theory of mine but it is my opinion that the human frame is just as subject to fatigue as is metal. When a person lives in a big city where the available oxygen in a polluted atmosphere is limited and his oxygen intake is reduced, and he then does quite a bit of flying a degree of fatigue sets in. So on that ground alone the proposal that has been presented has some merit. The proposal is that instead of travelling 4 days in every 2 weeks we should have 2 days of travel. 1 am in favour of the proposal put by  Senator Willesee  because I feel that we should try to normalise our lives as much as parliamentary life will allow by travelling to Canberra on a Monday and having the remainder of the week from Tuesday to Friday in Canberra for research, relaxation reading or other activity which senators from distant States may wish to pursue. The 4 day week would not prevent honourable senators from the States of Victoria and New South Wales commuting if they wished at the end of each week. As I said, for those honourable senators who reside in the more distant States this is a much more reasonable approach. Having spent the weekend in Canberra and having worked a 4 day week from Monday to Thursday, honourable senators would be able to travel home on the Friday. They would be home for the second weekend for any functions they may wish to attend or appointments they may wish to keep. They would then have a whole week for whatever activities they wished to pursue, such as electoral work or committee work. It would mean a full week's recess after every two weeks of sitting in the Senate. 
The case put by  Senator Webster  is perhaps one that could be rebutted inasmuch as we can get into habits because of the machinery in an institution such as this. Over the years it has been the practice to start the sitting on a Tuesday afternoon and to rise on Thursday night, but I do not think we should be bound to that practice even though it is a long-standing one. At the end of each session of the Parliament there is a pile-up of work and legislation is not given the attention that it should be given. This has encouraged a certain procedure within the Commonwealth Public Service whereby contentious Bills or Bills that are difficult to draft are held up until the last minute by departmental heads; - sometimes by accident and sometimes by design - because they know very well that because of the rush at the end of a session legislation is often steam-rolled through without proper attention. This is a practice that can creep in and which has crept up on us and which by default we have allowed to happen. I believe that a fresh breeze could blow through these practices following a study of the advantages and the disadvantages of this new proposal. 
Month by month and year by year the Senate is gaining status. We should try to improve this image and status, and this is one way of doing it. The adoption of this proposal would give to the Senate more broadcasting time. I think that because of the standard of debate in this chamber our listening public is equal to and at times is greater than that of another place. However this has never been confirmed. I have been in the Senate since 1947 and in that time I have seen most of its moods. The Senate has become a much more purposeful place and a much more interesting place over the last few years compared with what it was in the period when there were only 36 senators, with 3 on one side of the chamber and 33 on the other side. In my view, that condition of affairs brought the Senate into disrepute. 
The present circumstances give us the chance to apply ourselves, without personal attitudes and personalities entering too much into the matter, and to have a good look at whether the proposed change would be a much more reasonable way for us to go about our work than having to spend so much dme travelling in aircraft as we do now. We are virtually wasting time that could be better spent either at home in our electorates or here in carrying out the work of the Senate. 
Therefore, I agree that this review should take place as soon as possible. I hope that the Senate will see its way clear to readjust sitting times to provide for us in a sitting period of 2 weeks as much time for debate as we have now in 3 weeks. I hope that the Senate will agree to the new rhythm of 2 weeks sitting and 1 week at home in the electorate. Generally speaking, it would be of great advantage overall to the Senate to adopt the proposed sitting times. 

 Senator Sir MAGNUS CORMACK (Victoria) [5.27]  -  Mr Acting Deputy President,  I enter into this debate merely to put another point of view. As the debate develops, it seems to me that a pattern is beginning to emerge, but the pattern itself is indistinct.  Senator Willesee,  with his usual logic and facility of expression, considered that perhaps the sitting time each day could be extended so as to provide, in the aggregate, the additional time sought by honourable senators. It seems to me, in listening to the debate, that it is not so much a problem of time as a problem of method. it may be an unromantic description of Parliament to say so, but Parliament is certainly a work place. It is certainly, if we like to use a sort of modern jargon, capable of being described as a factory of ideas where ideas are processed. I suggest that if we called in, as is often done in these circumstances, a firm of management consultants to examine the methods by which the processing of ideas takes place, one of the findings that the firm would make immediately would be that the procedures of the Senate that relate to the production and processing of ideas were suitable perhaps 100 years ago but are not suitable in the context of modern ideas or modern concepts. 
Might 1 stop for a moment to illustrate this point to the Senate by giving 2 or 3 examples. I happen to be one of those who believe that the practice of having questions without notice needs examination. Each day, nearly an hour and a half is taken up with them. Without wishing to inhibit the rights of senators to question the Government, 1 would say that it seems to me that the attitude adopted by senators was aptly expressed by a notable professor of economics in the University of Singapore when he said that the time is occupied because the time is there to occupy. There is an illustration. I imagine that anyone who sat down to examine the procedures of the Senate in the context of the processing of ideas - this is what the Senate really is - would find that questions without notice is an area where time could be saved and better used for other purposes. 
It is true also - this is a performance that incenses me every year - that a great deal of time is taken by us in processing the Estimates. In the Estimates debate, the Senate attempts to involve itself in the consideration of 90% of the estimates which deal with the ordinary annual services of the Government which the Senate has no power to amend. I quote that as an illustration also. 
The truth is that the Senate is not coequal with the House of Representatives. It never was, nor was it ever intended to be. The Senate was designed, in my opinion of the Constitution, to perform another role and function altogether. As I have mentioned from time to time, we have bedevilled ourselves in attempting to maintain equality with another place in terms of powers which we have no right to possess. This has led me remorselessly over the last few years to decide that the problem of the handling of business and the processing of ideas must take the Senate into an examination of its methods of processing legislation as it comes into this House. To some extent, the Senate must be bound to the procedures of the House of Representatives because the Senate is a confirming House. But, as  Senator Willesee  suggested, it is not absolutely. 
What appears to me from this is that the methods by which legislation is considered or ideas are expressed and processed through the Parliament must be examined. If the Senate wishes expression to be given to this sort of feeling, which has not been clearly expressed but which exists and can be discerned, I would give my assistance and such ability as 1 have to see it brought to a conclusion. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Anderson)  adjourned. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Attorney-General. Having regard to the growing need for eternal vigilance in upholding and maintaining basic civil and human rights in Australia, I ask: Why does the police force in Canberra have discretionary power to intimidate people by insisting on the right to fingerprint and photograph people under arrest? Will the Minister have an inquiry instituted and a report made to the Senate on the erosion of human rights which was observed by  Mr Justice  Fox of the Australian Capital Territory Supreme Court when he said that the appeal of Marrilyn Lee Sernach had brought to light a rather unhappy and unedifying situation in which an instruction to the Australian Capital Territory police force as to when fingerprints were to be taken was unlawful? 
I should like to congratulate  Senator Donald  Cameron and  Senator Brown  on the very able way in which they delivered their maiden speeches in the Senate in the last few days. It was very refreshing to hear two newly elected senators express ideals and ideas of a practical nature and, with the courage of their convictions, put before the Senate a way in which Australia should live in the future. It was an alternative to the negative way in which this Government brought Australia to a stage where people at every level are uncertain. Our primary producers are extremely concerned about their means of existence. Their markets are being frittered away by the cost spiral. We are seeing the sell-out of our natural resources. 
Every level of government - State government, local government and semigovernmental instrumentalities - is experiencing some difficulties because of the inflationary spiral. The Australian people are looking for a lead, but nothing is forthcoming from this Government. The Governor-General's Speech gave no hope to the people who are so concerned about the future. But inherent in the speeches of  Senator Donald  Cameron and  Senator Brown  was an outline of the way in which the Labor Party believes that this country should be directing its energies. The Senate has an asset in these two newly elected senators who down through the years will continue to make their contributions. 
This afternoon in the Senate we have been exposed to a series of speeches which have done no credit at all to the status or dignity of this chamber. We have heard a series of imputations and sneers thrown across the chamber. I believe that when they concluded their speeches, honourable senators who were responsible for this conduct must have felt lesser men for having indulged in that type of activity in the Senate. Charges of parliamentary incompetence and opportunism were directed at the Opposition because of the amendment which was moved on our behalf by  Senator Murphy.  After so much smoke, it is interesting to note that, apart from the 1 day sitting of the Parliament last year, the last occasion on which an amendment was moved to the motion for the adoption of the AddressinReply, was in 1961. This illustrates that any stick is good enough to beat the dog politically, but we should like honourable senators opposite to try to keep to the facts occasionally when they make such attacks. 
Of course, it is quite easy to understand the attitude adopted by the Australian Democratic Labor Party. This is an election year for the Senate, and possibly two members of the DLP will conclude their terms in this Parliament on 30th June 1971. Members of the DLP have come into this Parliament under a false banner, and I think the Australian people have reached the stage where they are satisfied that nothing which the members of the DLP have said or done during their period of trial here justifies their remaining in the Senate. The DLP is a form of political life which needs a host. It is not a self supporting entity. It hovers between the Government and the Opposition like a swarm of honey bees. On this occasion it does not suit the DLP's plans to feed off its favourite host, the Liberal Party, and it felt that because this is an election year for the Senate it would change and have a bit of a suck at the Labor Party. The members of the DLP thought that they were being politically clever by adopting this expediency of introducing an ineffectual, apologetic amendment, and that they could force us to support the amendment. 

 Senator Byrne referred to occasions on which members of the DLP supported the Austraiian Labor Party, but he conveniently forgot to mention the many important occasions on which they returned and put their little fangs back into their old host, their protectors, their political friends, their political bedmates. When a vote is to be taken on an important issue we never expect to receive the support of the DLP. The members of the DLP were shown up in their true colours when they made a lot of fuss and bother about  Mr Gordon  Freeth's statement on Russian presence in the Indian Ocean, but when election time came their preferences went to their old hosts, their good friends. It was rather interesting to hear  Senator Byrne,  who usually does not become emotional when making a speech, refer to the ALP bitterness, but I think he did this because we did not fall for the thimble and pea trick which the DLP expected us to fall for on this occasion. The DLP claims that it has been elevated to the position of official Opposition. If its representatives are so politically naive as to claim that because they were able, through a series of tricks, to beat the official Opposition in presenting an amendment in this chamber, and that not only the people in this Senate but also the people outside the Senate can place any credence in their sincerity, they have a lot to learn about politics. 
We have introduced our amendment in our own time, exercising our prerogative as the Opposition in this chamber. Before I elaborate on some of the very important features of this amendment I would like to say a few words about  Senator Greenwood's  apologia for the Government's military adventure in Vietnam. He spent a lot of time trying to explain the Government's invidious position at the present time with its friends falling away - the few that it had when it originally embarked on this adventure in Vietnam. Some of them are leaving token troops in Vietnam and others are withdrawing altogether. Many of the original signatories to the Geneva Convention would not have anything whatever to do with the Government at the military level when this step was taken. I would like to ask  Senator 
Greenwood why he has to put on this mock front if his Government is ashamed to declare war. He knows very well that we are involved in a war. All the features of war are present - it is costly, murderous and immoral. Yet his Government is not prepared to do the right thing and declare war. It is hiding behind every semantic trick in the book just to be able to fool the public about what it is actually involved in. So as to enlighten  Senator Greenwood  I will quote from a document signed by Australia at the Geneva conference. 
This is the Geneva Accord signed al the Geneva conference. 
 Yes. Clause 6 of the document reads: 
The conference recognises that the essential purpose of the agreement relating to Vietnam is to settle military questions wilh a view to ending hostilities, and that I he military demarcation line should nol in any way be interpreted as constituring a political or territorial boundary. . . . 
I do not think that  Senator Greenwood  realises that this is part of the agreement. He continues to draw a line of demarcation. He has confused it with the unilateral agreement of the United States of America. Clause 6 continues: 
. it expresses its conviction that the execution of the provisions set out in the present declaration and in the agreement on the cessation of hostilities creates the necessary basis for the achievement in the near future of a political settlement in Vietnam. 
Clause 7 states: 
The conference declares that, so far as Vietnam is concerned, the settlement of political problems, effected on the basis of respect for the principles of independence, unity, and territorial integrity, shall permit the Vietnamese people to enjoy the fundamental freedoms, guaranteed by democratic institutions, established as a result of free general elections by secret ballot . . . 
I would like to refer to the American ceasefire agreement which was not officially published but of which the main provisions were outlined by M. Mendes-France and  Mr Eden  and published by the British, French and United States Press. 
This is one that America supported. I am trying to put the honourable senator on the right track. He is trying to confuse the Senate. That document states: 
Partition of Vietnam. The State ot Vietnam would be partitioned into two approximately equal areas by a demarcation line near the 17th parallel, the northern part (including the ports of Hanoi and Haiphong) passing under the control of the Vietminh Government and the southern part remaining under the control of the Vietnamese Government. 
This was the arrangement made to perpetuate the colonial history of Indo-China. I do not have to reiterate this history which goes back 900 years during which the Vietnamese people, a gallant and proud race, defended themselves against all-comers. The Chinese invaded Indo-China and tried to impose their will on the people who, through their own efforts, with the same grit and the same courage as they are displaying today, threw out the invaders. We see the results today. The greatest power in the world is engaged in Vietnam. It has there 500,000 troops with all modern equipment, with napalm and all of the other murderous modern weapons. In spite of the destruction of the ordinary life of the country, the burning of villages, the maiming and murder of women and children, the Vietnamese people are resisting. Where are they getting the will to resist if the cause of the foreigners - including ourselves - on the soil of Vietnam is just? This is the question that we have to ask ourselves. This is the point that the Australian Labor Party makes. This is an immoral war for a sophisticated country such as Australia. 
The immorality arises because we have no right to be there. 
 We were not invited to go to Vietnam. During World War II the Japanese, of whom Bao Dai was a puppet, took over Indo-China but the people cleared them from their country. The British came in immediately after the war and assisted the French to return. The French were hated by the indigenous Vietnamese people. We assisted the French to go back. The Vietnamese people fought the French, as we know. They were able eventually to drive the French out by defeating them at Dien Bien Phu in 1954. 
This is so. The honourable senator is distorting the situation when he says that the Communists were involved. Despite the Australians, Americans, English, Indians and Japanese Ho Chi Minh has been fighting the battle of the Vietnamese people. 
It is apparent from the tributes paid to him from all over the world that he was a beloved Vietnamese. That is the point that must be recognised. Merely because a man is a confirmed Communist  we  have no right to adjudge that he is the devil or has no capacity or good qualities. The honourable senator is a young man, but possibly even he was only too glad to have the assistance of the Chinese, the Russians, the Czechoslovakians and Polish as gallant allies during World War II. 
We will have a discussion on that at some other time. The position in which we find ourselves now is that we are involved in a war which is immoral and which we cannot win. As a result we are dissipating the goodwill which has been built up by Australians. I am not referring to Government supporters, the hawks and the bloodthirsty warmongers that we have in our community. They and similar people in the United States, Germany and other parts of the world love wars because they can make fortunes during wars. Great fortunes are made during wartime. They see this as a great opportunity to pour arms into Vietnam, to have their factories and machines of war churning out their products, lt keeps them in business and we never know when a really big war might break out. 
Another problem which we must bear in mind is that while we are involved in Vietnam and have our sights set on Vietnam other trouble spots could envelop us in a much worse catastrophe. There has been a tremendous amount of misrepresentation by the Government of the situation in Vietnam to justify our participation in the war.  Senator Greenwood  has said that we did not sign the agreement and that the United States did not sign it, but this is a mere technicality which is announced to the Australian people in order to confuse them. Our reason for being in Vietnam is to try to buy the assistance of the United States for our future. There is no doubt about that. We are not there because of the Vietnamese people; we are there because the United States is involved and we feel that in becoming involved with the United States we are buying time for ourselves and assistance for ourselves if ever the occasion should arise when we need it. 
The policy of the Australian Labor Party has been well advertised. It has been expressed on numerous occasions. We believe that the solution of this problem of the war in Vietnam lies in giving the Vietnamese people the opportunity to solve their own problems. The United States has realised this and it is the policy which has been adopted by the United States over the last couple of years. It was brought about by the American people realising the situation they had been led into and realising that they had not been properly informed. By getting out into the streets and demonstrating against the war in Vietnam they were able to excercise influence on the  President  of the United States so that for the first time in the history of that country a  President  had to resign his position. He realised the hopeless position that he had led his country into; so he resigned and got out. He was succeeded by a man who campaigned about the country on the platform that he was going to withdraw United States troops from Vietnam. 
He was seeking to end the war and one of the steps towards that end was to stop the bombing and withdraw the troops. They were both parts of the Australian Labor Party's policy. We find this statement in the GovernorGeneral's Speech: 
My Government is glad to note that the increasing capacity of the South Vietnamese to defend themselves has already permitted the withdrawal of some Allied Forces. Should the future situation permit a further substantial withdrawal of troops - beyond those announced by  President  Nixon  on 16th December 1969- then in consultation with the Government of the Republic of Vietnam and the Government of the United States, some Australian troops will be included, at some stage, in the numbers scheduled for such withdrawal. 
No, it is not a positive statement. It is an evasion by the Government of its responsibility and it was said to give some credence to what the people were told during the election campaign. lt is what the people have been led to expect of this Government. If the United States indicates that it will withdraw its troops, I believe that Australian troops should be entitled to know when and how they will be withdrawn in the same proportion. It is a nebulous statement to say that some Australian troops will be included at some stage. This is just a mockery of the responsibilities that we have towards the Australian people and the Australian troops. 
The general attitude of the Government over our involvement in Vietnam has been to try to cover up its great mistake, its great miscalculation and its great misjudgment in becoming involved in Vietnam. As long as the Government continues lo follow its negative policy it will continue to lead Australia into disrepute in the area of the world in which we have to live. We are here irrevocably. For geographical reasons we must live here. There is no way in which we can move from this part of the world, and we would not want to do so. But at least we should be building up goodwill with our neighbours to the fullest extent. In my view the people of South East Asia - the Indonesians, the Filipinos, Malaysians, Indians, Pakistanis and other people in this area who have seen what has gone on in Vietnam and the devastation which has taken place - must be fearful that the policy that we have been following might some day be adopted in their country. We feel that the Government has failed to face up to its responsibilities. It has failed the people of Australia by not giving them a constructive lead out of the morass into which they have been led. The amendment that we have proposed is, we believe, of very great importance and it should receive immediate attention. 
The first part of the amendment to which attention has been drawn is the failure of the Government to provide a programme for adequate defence equipment and industries. In the ministerial statement on defence we heard an announcement about defence equipment which had been promised. I should like to compare the paucity of this programme with the programme in part of the Pacific area to which we must give serious consideration. I refer to Japan which is now the world's third industrial power. Despite Article Nine of the Japanese Constitution, Japan's defence forces are expanding at a rate which, I should think, necessitates a very close examination by countries in the Asian area. For the purpose of comparison let me refer to projected increases in our forces and relate them to increases in Japan's forces. 
I can refer to it without going into detail. I have here an article written by  Mr Swadesh  R. de Roy of Tokyo which states: 
The sixties have placed Japan firmly on the summit of the non-Communist world, with an economy second in size only to the unsurpassable United States. 
That is a most important observation because our natural resources are playing their part in the tremendous increase in the economy of Japan. The author refers then to the coming decade - the 1970s - which will see Japan matching its economic strength with a military strength. Although the build up in Japan's armed forces will appear constitutionally only as a build up in its defence forces, it nevertheless will have a very big impact on the balance of power not only in the Pacific and Asian area but also throughout the world. Inside Japan I understand that there is quite a lot of opposition to this rearmament but 1 have never heard one mention in this Parliament of any concern about it. After all, it is one of the facts of history that our gallant allies in one war become our enemies in the next. War is one of mankind's activities with mankind not always knowing who its next opponent will be. In Japan there is not sufficient opposition to the contravention of Article Nine of its constitution which states specifically that Japan is not to rearm. 
Australia's experiences with Japan were such that we should insist that any development in armaments, such as has been referred to in this article and which are big enough to make Japan an influence on the world balance of power, should be known in Australia and discussed openly in this Parliament. The forces in Japan are described as self-defence forces. They are supposed to cope with localised or small scale invasions, sharing the task of strategic defence with the United States which in turn is responsible under the mutual security pact for strategic offensive roles. 
On paper Japan cannot be belligerent but even though  Mr Sato,  the Prime Minister of Japan, has been able to keep criticism down to a very low key, rearmament has in effect been going on in Japan for 15 years. All three Services have developed on a steady scale and their infrastructure has been developed in proportion. Japan makes 97% of its ammunition and 84% of its aircraft, tanks, guns, naval craft and other military equipment. It is spending 5 billion yen which in turn gives Japanese industry plenty of scope to expand its defence manufacturers. The 3-year plan which is now in operation in Japan authorises manpower to be augmented to a total of 180,000. In order to increase the mobility of its land units, 30 large helicopters, 53 medium size helicopters, 160 armoured transport vehicles and 10 transport planes will be added. To replace obsolete tanks, 280 medium size tanks of the 61 type will be obtained. 
Turning to Japan's maritime force, efforts will be made to strengthen defence along the coasts, straits and in other sea areas adjacent to Japan, and also to increase the ability to secure the safety of maritime traffic. Some fourteen destroyers, including a 3,900-ton vessel equipped with ship to air missiles, and two 4,800 ton destroyers carrying helicopters, five 800-ton submarines and 35 other vessels will be constructed with a total tonnage amounting to 48,000 tons. In addition, 46 anti-submarine patrol planes, 14 anti-submarine flying boats and 33 antisubmarine helicopters will be added. In Japan's Air Force 2 Hawk ground to air missile battalions will be formed and preparations made for the formation of another battalion. In addition, 2 Nike Hercules missile battalions will be organised and preparations made for the formation of one more battalion. Nike Hercules missiles and Hawk launchers and missiles will be produced in Japan. 
Let me compare that situation with the increase in our defence equipment. Here is our effort: One light destroyer (patrol) detailed design to cost S5m; 84 observation helicopters to cost $23m; 42 utility helicopters to cost $31m; 11 vertical take-off and landing aircraft for fire support to cost SI 3.2m; the construction of a naval communications station at a cost of $3. 8m; the overhaul and modernisation of gun mounts for the guided missile destroyers to cost S8.1m; the provision of 2 Oberon class submarines, 6 low cover radars, 1 logistic cargo ship for the Army, 10 additional Skyhawks for the Navy and 2 twin-engined support and training aircraft, all of which will cost $81m. Here we have the Government in a very loudly heralded defence statement outlining what it intends to do to defend an area the size of Australia, and on the other hand there is a country which is prohibited from rearming and which openly can boast an increase in its weapons of war to the extent that I have mentioned to the Senate. 
We have had propaganda thrust upon us often by the mass media - sometimes for political purposes, of course, but it is part of the whole machinery of keeping people fearful - to the effect that our potential enemy will be Red China or some other country far distant from Australia. We know very well their inability to launch an invasion by sea but here we have Japan, a country which we remember very vividly attempted to overrun us in the past, and still we are content not only to overlook the ominous undertones of rearmament in Japan- 
 I would not be surprised if we did not hear loud cheers coming from the little corner group at this rearmament, and support for" the move by the present Prime Minister of Japan to delete Article Nine and for Japan to become a fully fledged military and economically strong nation again. This lesson of history may fall on very deaf ears as far as the Government is concerned, but I believe that it is one about which the people of Australia should be properly advised. The Government adopts all these postures, participates in foreign expeditions, establishes 
Australia as a military nation and, although it is not prepared to declare war, embarks on a war with all the consequences of a war; yet it has no policy of internal defence other than the measly and very mediocre contribution it is making. 
We claim to be an affluent society. We claim to have vast untapped riches, reserves undreamt of and contracts running into hundreds of millions of dollars for the sale of our raw materials; but too much of our wealth is being directed into the effort to make Australia a military power as well as a strong economic power. This Government is so short sighted that it is prepared to follow exactly the same pattern as it did before. We should look after ourselves and the continent in which we live instead of dissipating our energies in other parts of the world, as we have done so often in the past. So, there is a big lesson to be learnt. It is a lesson of history. It is one to which our attention should be directed. The failure of the Government to provide adequate defence equipment and industries in this country is something for which it should be condemned. 1 have already spoken of our attitude towards Vietnam. Despite the attitude of the Government at the present time, it will never be able to convince me. I am sure that the Australian people more and more will come to see the negative nature of the policy adopted by the Government over the years and will be ashamed that we had a government that led us into this war. There is only one objective that we can possibly pursue in an attempt to compensate in some way for the tremendous destruction and tremendous misery that we have brought to this segment of humanity. 
I said before that our enemies in the last war are now our allies. But fundamentally these people are human beings. They have the same hopes, ambitions, wishes and desires as we have. They want to live within their family environment. They want to bring up their children. They have hopes that their children will inherit something better than they themselves inherited. They believe that their children are entitled to education and health facilities. They want to be able to elevate their standard of living and their dignity. These are entitlements that they should have equally with us. But what have we done towards that end? We have not done one thing. Our whole engagement in Vietnam has been of a negative nature. We have been engaged in genocide in Vietnam. We have been engaged in systematically decimating a species of the human race. 
Possibly they are doing the same. But that does not excuse us. 
The Vietnamese were there first. This is a case of the chicken and the egg. We have to give an explanation to the generations of people who will follow us in this country. We also have to face up to the people throughout the world who will evaluate us as a race. 
We cannot pull the blind down. We have to admit that many people throughout the world are Communist. Cannot  Senator Greenwood  realise that we do not have gas ovens to put the Communists in; that we cannot do what was done- in Indonesia when the coup occurred there? Certain people were able to get the Army to move around the country. They were able to have any person they suspected either shut up or put into the concentration camps that were scattered around Indonesia. That is how they solved their problem there - if they have solved it. I do not think they have. That is the way they got on top of the situation temporarily. 
In view of the way the honourable senator is pressing his point of view, that is the ultimate solution - the Nacht und Nebel' system of Hitler. He thought that he could solve the Jewish problem by annihilating the Jews. I have yet to hear the honourable senator say clearly that we will solve the problems of the world by co-existence. I do not think he believes that the goodies and the badies, the free world and the unfree world, or whatever he likes to call it. will ever be able to exist together. 
Part of Democratic Labor Party policy is for Australia to have nuclear arms, to be armed to the teeth and to be able to take a posture by which we will make all the other nations of the world quiver. The DLP expects the Government to arm Australia with nuclear arms. That is the negative type of solution that it would have us adopt, lt was even opposed to Australia signing the Nuclear Non-proliferation Treaty which was signed by the sensible countries quite a considerable time ago. Those countries have agreed that human beings have to come to agreements such as this and that human beings, for their own self-preservation, must agree not to proliferate nuclear weapons. 
Yet the DLP and the Government were reluctant for Australia to sign. They put up all the excuses in the world until just after the election. They were not prepared to go before their judges at election time and speak in favour of signing the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty. But as soon as they got the election over and done with they realised very well that they were only becoming foolish in the eyes of other people throughout the world by not signing the Treaty. This is the sort of alternative that the Government is trying to put forward. This is the negative attitude of our Government. 
I believe that certain forces are already organised within the United Nations. The United Nations is the only hope of mankind, but our Government will not support it. Our Government is supporting little rumps and negative sections of the United Nations. This is our great problem. 
 I did not think we could finish before dinner. 
I have quite a few notes, but I will compromise. I will have the opportunity to develop these matters on other occasions. Let me say this in conclusion: The amendment that we have moved is constructive and imaginative. We make no apology to the DLP for giving full consideration to the matters we have raised in our amendment. We are under no obligation to the DLP to support its amendment. Down through the months and the years members of the DLP have shown to us that they are further to the right and more reactionary than members of the Government parties. Any time they seek our support it. is for their own political purposes. Therefore, we do not propose to support their amendment. We ask the Senate to give our amendment its full support. We hope that our amendment will be carried because in carrying it we will be entering a path along which the people of Australia can see a little hope for the future instead of the path of negative policies on every level along which the Government is leading this country. 
I wish to raise a few matters in respect of this legislation; but firstly let me say that the principle involved in the Bill, which relates to the convention known as the Tokyo Convention on offences and certain other acts committed on board aircraft, is one that has been exercising the minds of people for quite a number of years. Perhaps the Minister could inform us why it has taken so long to come around to accede to this Convention. I believe that a few other matters require clarification. Article 2 states, in part: 
Without prejudice to the provisions of Article 4 and except when the safety of the aircraft or of persons or property on board so requires, no provision of this Convention shall be interpreted as authorising or requiring any action in respect of offences against penal laws of a political nature or those based on racial or religious discrimination. 
A recent example of political influence being exerted on the flight of an aircraft was the instruction to an airline not to carry a passenger from Noumea to Australia. The airline allegedly was warned that penalties could be imposed upon it if it carried the passenger into Australia. T suggest that that was a political decision. I wish to know whether there is proper provision for the person concerned to receive the fullest protection of the law on landing in Australia. 
Although hijacking is the principal offence with which the legislation is concerned, a number of offences could occur on an aircraft. Threats could be made to individual passengers. Drunkenness and robbery could occur amongst the passengers, particularly where valuables were being carried. I would like an assurance from the Minister that provision is made for the application of our laws. 1 particularly have in mind paragraph 4 of Article 13 as it relates to clause 10 of the Bill. Clause 10 states, in part:  (1.) The Minister or an authorised person may, by notice in writing, authorise a Magistrate to hold an inquiry for the purposes of paragraph 4 of Article 13 of the Tokyo Convention. (2.) Upon receipt of the notice, the Magistrate shall- 
take the evidence of each witness appearing before him to give evidence in the inquiry in like manner as if the witness were giving evidence on a charge against a person for an indictable offence against the law in force in the State or Territory of which he is a magistrate. 
We must ensure that this legislation docs not cut across the normal rights of a person who is being held in custody. I direct the attention of honourable senators to clause 16, which states, in part:  (1.) Where a person remanded under subsection (2.) of section 13 of this Act is in custody at the expiration of two months after - 
the date of the order of remand by virtue of which his period of custody on remand commenced; or 
if an application for a writ of habeas corpus has been made by the person - the date of the decision of the court to which the application was made or, where an appeal has been brought from that decision to another court, the date of the decision of the other court  1 would like the Minister to explain whether witnesses and other people concerned will be inconvenienced by that provision. Another provision that concerns me lies in clause 14, which states: 
If a person who has been remanded on bail under sub-section (2.) of the last preceding section does not appear before a Magistrate at the time and place mentioned in the recognisance entered into by him on being granted bail, the Magistrate may adjourn the proceedings and may issue a warrant for the apprehension of the person and for bringing him before a Magistrate. 
Whose responsibility is it to issue a warrant for non-appearance? If it is within one of the signatory states, is that stale responsible for apprehending a person who has escaped? Will a delay be caused to passengers on the aircraft who will be required as witnesses? Who compensates passengers called as witnesses? I am referring not particularly to hijacking but to any of the offences outlined in paragraph 1 of Article 
Although it appears that the provisions of the Bill are directed towards hijacking, other acts can be committed on board an aircraft which, although not nearly as serious, could result in considerable inconvenience to other people associated with charges made against an accused person. If the Minister could clear up those matters I would be much happier about the support we are giving to this measure. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Because Australian doctors have indicated their dissatisfaction with the patched up health scheme produced by the Minister for Health, will the Minister representing that Minister tell the Senate how the Government will meet the doctors' confrontation threat not to co-operate? As the scheme will cost the taxpayers twice as much as the figure given by the Prime Minister during the election campaign, what will the Government do now to ensure that the scheme will not collapse completely? If both parties persist in their attitude, when will the long suffering people get a scheme which will meet their requirements and which will be within their means? 
He said he would have studies made of matters raised by the AMA on aspects of the lists of most common medical fees previously supplied to the Government by the association. 

 Dr Forbes said that at a meeting today, representatives of the AMA had asked that changes should be made to some of the most common fees previously agreed for services performed by both general practitioner and specialist doctors. 
He said the Government was willing to review any matters of fact raised by the AMA about the list of most common fees. He had therefore agreed to the reconvening this afternoon of a joint AMAdepartmental working party to look at information supplied to him at the meeting this morning. 

 Dr Forbes said he had made it clear to the AMA representatives that while the Government was quite willing to consider new information on fees charged by general practitioners and specialists, it was firmly committed to the principle that patients should receive medical benefit rebates based on the fees which were in fact most commonly charged by doctors. 
He added: 'This principle stems from the Government's resolve to provide adequate financial coverage for patients against the cost of all, and not just a section of, medical charges'. 
I believe that statement confirms my point that both the AMA and the Government are conferring to assist the people. 
The Australian Labor Party realises that this Navigation Bill is an emergency measure. I support the point of view that the Senate should give temporary authority to the Government to deal with this emergency and that the Bill should be referred back to the Parliament to evaluate the whole situation which this type of emergency poses to the people of the Commonwealth who are concerned with the waters adjacent to our shores. The purpose of the Bill is to amend the Navigation Act 1912-68 for the purpose of preventing the pollution of the coast, coastal waters and Australian reefs by oil. The Bill has quite a wide, sweeping title and one that should be given consideration at length and in depth. Although introduced under the guise of an emergency measure, I think it should be more specific, lt should specifically deal with the critical situation which the 'Oceanic Grandeur' has posed for Australia because of the vast amount of oil that still remains in her. We have had good fortune so far with tide and winds which have dispersed, to a considerable extent, the oil that was floating around on the surface of Torres Strait waters. I believe the purpose of the Bill should be to prevent the pollution of the Australian coast, coastal waters and Australian reefs. 

 Senator Lawrie spoke of territorial waters. In 6 months time when we review the situation we should consider whether Australia is not embarking into an area in which the States have established their supremacy for the purpose of collecting royalties and then have passed on to the Commonwealth the responsibility of clearing up the muck. 
I want this Bill to be properly discussed and I want people to know the significance of this legislation. I feel that honourable senators should apply their minds to this aspect. This amendment of the Navigation Act has a very wide purpose and it can go on in perpetuity, whereas the idea behind the introduction of this amendment was that it should be quickly passed as an emergency measure. I have had enough experience to know that anything can happen when one is dealing with oil companies and oil tankers. Two hundred years ago Captain Cook went on a reef and the oil companies have not learned the lesson yet. They send over reef-strewn waters ships which they know are going to draw a certain draft. They take these risks for a miserable economic purpose and they are going to pollute these waters off our coast. The oil companies ought to be indicted for one of the greatest crimes against this country; that is the pollution of our coastal areas. These oil companies in the pursuit of profit have polluted the coast of Santa Barbara and other places where we have seen these huge tankers, such as the Torrey Canyon' and other 100,000 tonners, sailing the oceans without any thought of the consequences of taking this type of cargo over the oceans of the world. No provision exists in this legislation for that type of thing. This is just a cover-up, really, for a very grave error and, perhaps, for the obtaining of some compensation. I would like to refer to the Minister's second reading speech, lt states: 
This urgent Bill is for the purpose of providing the legislative power necessary to deal wilh vessels and their cargoes in cases where there is pollution or threat of pollution to the Australian coast or coastal waters by oil. 
We have not seen one action to prevent this by the Queensland Government which is very proud and conscious of its rights over the coast.  Senator Georges  even had to threaten the Queensland Government with certain action - 1 think we should be thankful to him for doing so - if it persisted with certain plans that it had to drill in the Barrier Reef areas. If it did so  Senator Georges  threatened that it would have to take the consequences. We have reached the stage now where the Queensland Government has been prevented to a degree from carrying out its policy. What responsibility did the company concerned have to the Australian people, to the Australian tourist industry or to the Barrier Reef? None whatsoever. Apparently the company was allowed to move in and exploit an area of our coastal waters. Even the Queensland Premier allegedly had shares in the operation. This is the kind of thing that is before our eyes but no legislation is coming here in a hurry to deal with it. The legislation before us is designed to cover up one of the inevitable consequences of the exploitation of Australian waters by people who want to bring oil from Indonesia. 
It is exploitation of our Barrier Reef. They should be obliged to go right around the areas of shallow water which prevent their free passage, but here they took a risk and they failed. The consequence is that under this legislation the taxpayers of Australia are being asked to pay the bill. The Minister's second reading speech goes on: 
During the last 2 weeks there have been various references in the Senate to the tanker 'Oceanic Grandeur' which struck a submerged object . . .  lt was not a submerged object. According to the Press reports which have been received it was part of the Reef. The Reef was surveyed as having a set draught, I understand, of 37 feet - I cannot recall the exact figure - and when fully laden the ves sel concerned drew 4 feet more than the depth of the passage. The Navigation Act should cover that kind of thing but either it does nol or, if it does, it is not policed properly. The Minister told us about our good fortune in that the north westerly monsoon moved the oil out to sea. He continued: 
Further minor oil spills have occurred since, particularly during the transfer of oil from the tanker. These have been treated in the vicinity of the ship with detergents which have been flown into the area by Royal Australian Air Force aircraft. 
The Commonwealth has had to come to the vessel's aid in territorial waters at the request of the Department of Shipping and Transport. Here is the Commonwealth being called on to assert authority in a State matter within territorial waters. 1 had not realised the proximity to territorial waters until  Senator Lawrie  reminded me so forcefully. This is something that Queensland guards very closely. It is most interested in maintaining the borderline of territorial waters. He made a claim which (. believe should be tested now and for good. Wilh such a test coming up, this legislation should be temporary until many of these matters are resolved. 
Queensland has been notably silent, like the 'p' in psychosis'. The Minister then went on: 
The tanker 'Leslie J. Thompson* was in the immediate area and in ballast, but the transfer of oil from the 'Oceanic Grandeur' did not commence for several days. 
In my view the 'Leslie J. Thompson' should have gone immediately to the assistance of this stricken vessel for two reasons - firstly, in case assistance was needed on the personal level, that is, for the crew and other people, and secondly, to try to avert the escape of this vast quantity of oil which is causing such a problem. Since then a period of 7 days has elapsed during which no transfer operations have taken place. Why? For economic reasons. It does not pay someone to go and get it. There is only a little bit of oil left, only 30,000 or 40,000 tons, which can float willy nilly along our coastal waters with its consequent effects on the coral. 
 f am reminded that Insurance will cover it. But what damage can the oil do to the coral which is such a sensitive growth and to the little polyp which is responsible for the build-up of the coral? What will happen when it has a coating of oil? I suppose no-one cares until trouble has been caused. What happens to the marine life, the sea gulls and so on? We have seen what has happened to them following the 'Torrey Canyon' affair and the disaster on the Santa Barbara coast. Apparently this is no-one's business, but it is my business. I am interested in this. I believe that the urgency of this legislation is only temporary. I agree with my colleague,  Senator Bishop,  who presented a recommendation from our Transport Committee that we give the Government this legislation for 6 months and that we then have another look at it. Continuing his second reading speech the Minister said: 
It does not appear that another relief tanker will be in the area for several days. As a result Oceanic Grandeur' still has 30,000 tons of oil on board and unless early action is taken to provide further tankers to take oil from the vessel it may remain in the area as a potential danger to the islands of the Great Barrier Reef and the fishing and pearl beds in the area for some time. 
Will the Department of Shipping and Transport command the responsible people to send a ship there? That is what it should be doing. In fact it should have been done before this. 
 Thirteen days have passed. 
-- I want to make it so that the Commonwealth has no doubt about its responsibilities. That is why we want to give the Commonwealth this temporary authority, but we want it written irrevocably into the constitutional responsibilities of the Commonwealth that we can take action when an emergency such as this arises. The Minister went on: 
This incident has highlighted the fact that under existing legislation the Commonwealth lacks the necessary power which would enable it to deal effectively with such an incident. 
Why was not this matter taken up between the Commonwealth and the States when they were carving up the areas for the granting of off-shore and similar concessions? I will deal with that aspect on some other day. The Minister then said: 
It has demonstrated the need to provide the Minister with powers to take urgent and effective action to ensure there is no delay in the removal of a potential hazard. 
I agree entirely. I am prepared and anxious to support this measure so that it will get a speedy passage to deal with this specific situation. But giving an all-embracing authority under the guise of an emergency Bill such as this is something which should have the very close attention of the Senate. 
As the Minister has said, the Bill provides the Minister with the necessary legislative power to do these things. What things? The Bill allows the Minister quite a wide power. It defines Australian coastal waters and the Australian reef. These are things that are new. In emergency legislation we find the Department of Shipping and Transport prepared to make definitions that we have not seen. The Bill refers to oil that is polluting, or is likely to pollute, any part of the Australian coast. This Bill gives the Minister authority in relation to likely pollution. That opens the door very widely because the oil industry is a likely cause of pollution of the Australian coast. Even in our harbours our local authorities and marine boards arc having difficulties. They are finding slicks floating in the harbour. They cannot find the persons responsible because bilges are opened, the slick is released and the ships sail off into the night. The local people - the ratepayers and the taxpayers of Australia - are left carrying the slick - a very slick trick. 
Finally, the powers of the Minister in the case of non-compliance with the notice are set out in the Bill. I believe that they may serve the purpose here but that penalties should be provided for careless people if, in the pursuit of profits, they are going to destroy our inheritance - the adjacent areas of sea and their marine life, reefs and islands. These people should have to carry sufficient insurance to be able to make good any damage they cause. So, I support the Bill and I hope that during the Committee stage we will bc able to continue to express our belief that this should be a temporary measure; that it should have a limit of 6 months on it; and that it should be reviewed after that time. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Sir Magnus Cormack)  - Order! Before I call  Senator Davidson  I point out to the Senate that there is far too much audible conversation. The proceedings of the Senate are being broadcast, and the speakers who are addressing the Senate are finding difficulty in commanding the attention of the Senate. 
I support the Bill. I also support the amendment, which reads: 
But the Senate is of opinion that the Government has failed to give positive leadership to overcome the crisis in the wheat industry. 
I realise that we have no alternative but to support the Bill to meet the Commonwealth's obligations under the guarantee made to repay the advance to the Australian Wheat Board from the Reserve Bank in respect of the 1968-69 wheat crop. The time for final repayment, 31st March, is drawing near. It is 12 months since the drawings were made; so it is obligatory for us to comply with our responsibility, to ensure that the amount of $250m is repaid. Arrangements were made for the Australian Wheat Board to borrow up to a certain amount. The amendment highlights our view as to the lack of leadership by the Government. The matter did not come upon us suddenly. 
Sitting suspended from 12.45 to 2.15 p.m. 
 Prior to the suspension of the sitting I briefly drew the attention of the Senate to the problem facing the Australian Wheat Board arising from the repayment of $250m to the Reserve &gt;Bank of Australia by the end of this month of certain borrowings by the Board in relation to the 1968-69 wheat crop. Arrangements were made for the Board to borrow up to S624m from the Reserve Bank in respect of the 1968-69 pool. Section 57 of the Reserve Bank Act provides that loans of this type shall be for not more than 1 year. So a time limit is associated with the passage of this legislation through the Parliament. 
The Bill gives honourable senators an opportunity to examine not only the situation in which the wheat industry finds itself at present but also, as I have indicated in relation to the Opposition's amendment, to determine whether the Government has failed to give positive leadership to overcome the crisis in the wheat industry. The present crisis is the result of a situation which has been building up over a number of years. The wheat stabilisation scheme was intended to provide some sort of future and continuity in the wheat growing section of our rural community. The idea of a wheat stabilisation scheme is a very good one inasmuch as it guarantees that people who are engaged in this most important industry will be able to not only pay their way but also to get what could be termed a reasonable return on their investment. 
We have seen dramatic changes in the wheat industry in the last decade. The average harvest has increased by 50% as a result of improved techniques and good seasons. Production has increased to such an extent that the total harvest in Australia last year was in excess of 500 million bushels. But at the same time there has been increased production in other parts of the world. India and Pakistan have increased their wheat production in order to overcome their poverty and hunger problems. After a period of uncertain seasons owing to drought and the other disabilities which confront wheat growers, these countries have reached a position where they are virtually self sufficient in wheat. I understand that Pakistan has reached the stage where it is able to export some of its surplus wheat. Another important factor which has some bearing on the legislation we are considering is the decline in the world wheat trade. Countries which were previously relatively large flour users have found alternative types of basic foods. The world wheat trade has declined from the maximum level it reached of 2,300 million bushels to 1,700 million bushels in 1968-69. It is expected to drop further to 1,500 million bushels in the present financial year. In other words, there has been a decline of about 800 million bushels in the wheat sold on the world market, which accounts for some of the present surplus. 
I mentioned earlier that Pakistan had reached the stage where it was self sufficient in wheat. I wish to correct that statement. 
I should have said that India expects to be self sufficient by 1972. Pakistan has exported some wheat. The fact that a traditional customer like India expects to be self sufficient in wheat production by 1972 adds to the critical situation facing the Australian wheat industry. New Zealand was once a good market for Australian wheat, but it is now a competitor, as it is an exporting country. Another factor is that there is in storage at present sufficient wheat to meet the world's requirements for 1 year. In fact, the carry over is more than 1 year's supply. It is logical to ask the Government what plans it has in regard to the future of the wheat industry. The wheat grower has been traditionally a master of the art of growing wheat. He has understood the difficulties of contending with drought, disease and the other hazards which confront the industry. 
The increased cost of production is something for which he can blame the Government. It has allowed a policy of inflation to prevail to such an extent that growers are in a critical situation in two ways - firstly, as a result of the increased interest charged on bank overdrafts and, secondly, because of the declining possibility of meeting these commitments since there is no guarantee that they will be able to dispose of their production in the future. One of the worst features of the whole thing is the fact that in recent years farmers have been able to switch from other branches of primary industry to wheat growing without any direction by the Government in regard to its policy. Over the years the Government has been content to have some degree of discipline in the industry with the wheat stabilisation scheme regulating to a certain extent the stream of wheat from the  farms to the  storage and onto the domestic and overseas markets. 
I believe it is essential to have a stable industry. But the Government has overlooked two important areas in which a degree of regulation is also necessary. Whether or not one likes the word 'regulation', it is a fact of life that unless one has orderly marketing and an orderly industry one will have to face recurrent crises. I make the charge that the Government has failed to give leadership along these lines and, as a result, the grower has to carry the baby - and it is a very unwelcome baby, the product of inflation. It is a lusty and virile baby and is growing rapidly. It is thriving on itself. The Government has not produced any long range plan. It has used plenty of political gimmicks, but it has not produced anything constructive in the way of a policy which will halt this very serious inflationary process and make the industry stable. 
As a result of this legislation an amount of $250m will be put into circulation. This is only one example of the many injections into the community of financial aid. But the commodities which are being produced with such aid are not being sold. The Senate is not being informed whether the Government has plans to dispose of this wheat to underprivileged countries. I can assure members on the Government side that the people of Australia in particular and people generally throughout the world today will not tolerate the precedents of the past. In Canada and the United States of America foodstuff is being burnt. Potatoes are being burnt in parts of the United States and wheat is being destroyed in Canada. As to disposing of Australia's wheat crop in such a way, I assure the Government that it wants to give very serious consideration before adopting any policy as negative as that. Campaigns are being conducted for the supplying of food to underprivileged and starving people. Pictures have been displayed showing Biafran people who are just skin and bone. We know of the extent of starvation and the appalling hunger and poverty which exist in India and Pakistan despite the fact that those countries have reached their present level of wheat production. The understanding of this problem is not beyond the wit of decent men. Of course, in a capitalist system one finds the worst in man, the greed, the acquisitiveness and the avarice of self-seekers. One will always find these anomalies and contradictions. This brings me to the very crunch, that the crisis which is facing this country is the inevitable result of a cycle of boom and bust. This Government is always bleating about the so-called private entrepreneurs, and giving the small man opportunity. Now the small man is getting it right where the chicken got the axe. There is about as much sorrow in some of the 
Australian Country Party members' hearts and minds about the small man getting it in the neck as there would be in the heart of a bulk production chicken producer. 
The Australian Labor Party feels that a crisis such as this could have been avoided with some planning. No proper planning has been done in this industry. We know of the reticence and the shuffling that went on about even discussing the matter of quotas. We know how eyes have been closed to the intrusion of big powerful financial people who have gone into the wheat industry and helped kill the goose that laid the golden egg for the legitimate wheat growers. This has been going on apace without any constructive action being taken by the Government. For the first time in 20 years it has been necessary to bridge the gap between sales of wheat and the amount we are obliged to repay to the Reserve Bank. Of course, the nation has to meet this obligation. The Government has come before the Senate with an application to the Senate to approve a loan of this extent without having put a proposition, not just to the Parliament but to the people of Australia, on what it intends to do in the future. This is a stop-gap and a temporary measure. A panic phase has been reached in this industry, but nothing at all has been heard from the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  or from the responsible people in this chamber as to the future that is possible for that very conscientious and hardworking section of our community, the traditional wheat growers. 
The Labor Party realises that there is a time limit and it realises the extent of the problem. It knows that the situation involves all sorts of international obligations such as the International Wheat Agreement, price fixing and the like which have been going on over a period of years. But we still come back to the very human problem that here we are with plenty while half the world's population is poverty stricken. It is a sign of decadence rather than progress when a nation is unable to find a way to dispose of and distribute its products by extending credit to nations in need. I believe that the Australian people themselves are looking for much more positive leadership in relation to this matter than they have had in the past. The wheat industry is not the only industry which has come up against a crisis such as this. Practically every one of our primary industries face this kind of crisis in one form or another. Representatives of other sections of primary industry have been telling us about crises in the meat industry, the wool industry, the dried fruits industry, and any other section of primary industry you like to take. Our good friend  Senator Lillico,  by way of interjection, mentioned peas and beans. 
Yes, and potatoes. Practically right throughout the whole gamut of primary production there have been crises of this nature, but perhaps not as great because the capacity of our wheat lands to produce in good seasons to such an extent can result in tremendous surpluses. But in relative degrees, the whole of Australia's primary industry complex faces similar crises in distribution, in financing the sale and dispersal of surpluses. I can only hope for the sake of the stability of our standard of living that farmers, who are the backbone of the country and who supply the food requirements of the country, will be given a degree of stability such that they can plan ahead for next year's crop and the following year's crops with a degree of security which will give them incentive and the assistance which they need because of the other hazards that confront them. lt seems a terrible thing to say, but it is quite likely that some people are hoping that a famine or drought will stalk some of the lands which are at present having plentiful harvests, so that Australia's problem may be solved. This is a short term view to take and one which I hope will never be taken here. On the other hand, observations are made and remarks passed such as the Senate heard from  Senator McManus  who would rather see a situation such as this than the selling of wheat to Red China, even though Red China is one customer of ours which has been able to pay its way, according to the Wheat Board. No report has been made to show that China is not a very good customer of ours. The arrangements which have been made with it have been satisfactory. 
The point is that the Wheat Board has the prerogative of fixing the price. That is its business. If the Government does not see fit to divulge those figures, the honourable senator can attack it about that. The Labor Party realises that this commitment of 250m has to be met to repay the Reserve Bank advances. The credit which has been extended to the Wheat Board has to be met. But the Labor Party also believes that the critical situation which is being faced has been brought about by inadequacy in leadership and by inefficiency. It was inevitable that these surpluses would occur but the Government has done little to try to relieve the situation. 
Will the Minister for Air acquaint the Senate of the authenticity of a report that the Australian Government will be required to pay rental to the Government of Malaysia for the use by the Royal Australian Air Force of the Butterworth base and its facilities? If so, has any reciprocal arrangement been made by the Australian Government to charge the Malaysian Government for the services of the manpower and material used at Butterworth? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Since the farmers' historic marches in Melbourne and Perth which drew attention to their plight and achieved the result that they are to have concessions in interest rates on their overdrafts and concessions in estate duties, will the Minister consider granting similar concessions to home builders who will be asked to pay the increased interest rates currently being prepared by the banking institutions of this country? 
My question is  directed to the Leader of the Government as Minister representing the Minister for External Affairs. What guarantees has the Australian Government from the Japanese Government that it will not abandon Article 9 of its Constitution and rearm to Japan's former level? In view of the fact that Pakistan, South Vietnam, Cambodia and Indonesia all have military governments as a result of coups d'etat, does not the Australian Government have concern at the growing number of military coup governments in the South East Asian area with which Australia has been cultivating closer co-operation? Does the Government believe that under the domino theory military governments could come to power through the whole of the South East Asian area? 
 Senator Greenwood,  who is known as tha Canberra conscript commando, should be eligible for a war service home after tha fight he put up on such a poor case. It  is  rather interesting to note that since we commenced the debate- 
Our job is to draw to the attention of the Senate and of the people of Australia the fact that the Government ls breaching its trust to exservicemen who are eligible for war service homes and is breaching the trust reposed in it temporarily to carry out the promises that it made over a period of years to exservicemen.  We  believe that the reintroduction of a waiting period for war service finance is  a  breach of that trust. While all the fuss was being made by the previous  speaker,  we asked him to give the reasons for not providing extra finance. Not one constructive thought came from him as to why the gap could not be bridged. It is rather interesting to note that during the course of the debate tonight the Minister for Housing  (Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin)  left the chamber and that a call was made over the public address system for members of the Government Housing Committee to attend a Committee meeting. They were called together hurriedly. Perhaps the Government realises at this very late stage that there are ways of providing extra finance. Members of that Committee are rechecking their economics to see whether this gap can be bridged. On 11th March 1970, during the course of her speech on the Address-in-Reply to the Governor-General's Speech, the Minister made a statement to which I shall refer. 
-The Minister should have been. Her colleagues have called  a  meeting. That announcement was put over the public address system. The Minister said: More than 35,000 persons are eligible  for  war service homes assistance under the special  conditions  introduced in  1963. In  order  to  meet the increased demand the Government has provided this year for war service homes S55m as against last year's provision of $50m. 
The Minister admitted an increasing demand and increasing housing costs. Therefore, to meet the Government's obligations, some kind of provision should have been made for this increase. Instead of that, a gap has been created.  We  have heard denials from the Minister in reply to questions. I would like to mention some factual cases. I will not mention any names. These incidents happened in the last couple of months. 1 will quote one case. On 26th February- 
They are authentic. I do not need to quote from my papers because I can recall the cases from memory. Until 2 months ago the Department of Housing consistently assured people that they could obtain finance. Now the correspondence going out to the various people is to the effect that the period of waiting will be anything up to 6 months. 
I am very pleased that the honourable senator raised that matter. The ex-servicemen are being made the bunnies. 
Yes, in the credit squeeze. They are the most vulnerable. They have a very fine Minister who speaks about the things that have been done and about the 300,000 houses that were built. She receives a great amount of respect and sympathy. If any other Minister were involved, we would tear him to pieces. We have such great respect for the Minister that we are being gentle with her. Nevertheless these people are being deprived of finance because of this squeeze, because of the Government's mistaken ideas and because of the ruthlessness of Government policy. The Government does not care where the hammer falls as long as it does not fall on the people who are exploiting the public through manipulation of the stock exchange or on the people who are selling out Australia's resources. No pressure is being applied for the introduction of a capital gains tax. The Government is putting an imposition on the exservicemen. The case 1 was about to cite earlier is that of a Victorian. The letter he received stated: 
There is no waiting period al present for finance under the War Service Homes Act and it should be possible to make a loan available to you as soon as the listed conditions have been met. 
That letter was dated 12th March - not 1 month ago. 
A capital gains tax should be imposed on your colleagues. We are trying to defend the battler - the man who has come home from Vietnam at the agc of 21.  Senator Greenwood  and other honourable senators said that these young people do not need homes. They are just at the age when they do need homes. The letter to which I referred was from the War Service Homes Division in Victoria. It continued: 
However, this cannot be regarded as a commitment.  it also staled:  lt is particularly mentioned that should you complete the purchase of the property with finance from any other source it would be necessary to refuse your application. 
This is wickedry. I had intended to use another word that is fashionable out at Duntroon, but 1 will settle for wickedry 
-Wickedisation, which is in line with the term used at Duntroon. Government policy in regard to these people and to their houses is such that they have to get bridging finance; and if ever there was a bunch of usurers it is the people in lawyers' offices- 
Yes, they are. The lawyers are helping to provide this bridging finance. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - Order! There is no substance in the point of order. 
If the leader of the Opposition.  Senator Murphy  were guilty of lending money for bridging finance at 12i% or 16% interest, I would disown him. I am quite certain that he would not be guilty of such action. I shall return to the point that I was making. I am talking about the lawyers who lend money at this exorbitant rate and who arrange this usurious bridging finance. Bridging finance is another ploy used to get these people sucked in and to give the procurement, search and conveyancing fees to their colleagues while keeping the people needing finance waiting for periods of up to 6 months. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - Order! The point of order is not upheld. 
1 have been asked to withdraw an offensive remark. 1 did not point at the honourable senator. 1 pointed somewhere else. He is very thin skinned. He wanted to take up my time. He knows that I am the leader of the Tasmanian Labor Party team at the next Senate election. He knows that I am coming up for re-election. He is sensitive about the whole matter. However, the point I was making is that the Minister stood in her place in this chamber and denied the charges that we were making. I am proving now, with documentary evidence from her own Department, that, first of all, the Department gave permission, in the first correspondence on 12th March, for this person to proceed, saying that at present there was no waiting period for finance, and then on 3rd April the regional director wrote to this person and said: 
I am writing to advise you that as matters stand it will be impracticable to make your loan available before September 1970. 
This gives -the lie direct to the refutation made by the Minister that what we are saying about the re-introduction of a waiting period for war service homes finance is not correct. In case some newly elected senators have lost sight of the purpose of the War Service Homes Act, I shall refer to what was said by  Senator Millen  of New South Wales, the then Minister for Repatriation, in introducing the War Service Homes Bill. 
He was not a Tasmanian; he was from New South Wales. When introducing the Bill he said, amongst other things: 
This shortage exists today, and will undoubtedly become accentuated with the return of the men who are still at the Front. I want honourable senators to recollect that, apart from what we owe to these mcn, there is a social side to this problem which, I believe, will influence them in the decision which they arrive at in regard to  this  Bill. The purpose of the measure is to enable members of the Australian Imperial Force, and certain of their dependants, to secure homes. I want to stress the word 'homes', because the whole of the provisions of the Bill are conditioned by it. Those conditions provide that a man may borrow for the purpose of erecting a home which he will occupy as such. 
This Government is recreant to its responsibility to carry out the purposes of the Act. Further on, the Minister went on to say: 
The second set of powers intrusted to the Commissioner are those which will enable him to build in anticipation of the receipt of applications. 
Now we find that ex-servicemen who are eligible, acceptable and who comply with all of the other conditions laid down for war service homes finance have to wait for finance for a period of up to 6 months. Previously, reference was made to the fact that these men are being made the bunnies of the inflationary squeeze that is being imposed on people, unjustly, because so many other sectors of the community are escaping their responsibilities. According to the Auditor-General's report, an amount of $50m was made available for war service homes in the last financial year, and repayments of principal and interest on war service loans amounted to $72,395,398. That money goes into Consolidated Revenue. When  Senator Greenwood  was searching his own mind and trying to find an excuse for the policy which the Government is pursuing, surely he could have suggested that Treasury could make an amount available from this money which is going into Consolidated Revenue, which is the difference between the amount of $72m for the repayment of principal and interest on war service homes finance in the last financial year and the amount of $50m which was provided for war service homes finance in the last financial year. 
Then there is the Insurance Fund which has been in operation for 50 years. Money has been paid into this Fund to cover insurance on war service homes. No adjustment has been made. No interest has been paid into the Insurance Fund. The amount of that interest could have been sufficient to provide finance to cover this time lag of 6 months or whatever it is which is facing these people at the present time. But no fear; ex-servicemen and the people on whose behalf we are speaking tonight are being made the bunnies. They are being made the scapegoats. They have to bear the burden of the foolish financial policies which this Government has followed It is said that the economy is becoming overheated. Certainly it will become overheated. The system itself is breaking down under its own policy because the Government has this permissive society- 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
 My question is directed to the Minister-in-Charge of Tourist Activities. I refer to the sub-leading article in the 'Sydney Morning Herald' which reported that the Minister, having returned from his study tour, was convinced that Alice Springs could bloom like Las Vegas and that the Great Barrier Reef could become a second Honolulu. I refer to the battle being waged to save the Barrier Reef. I ask: What part has the Australian Tourist Commission played in withholding approval for drilling operations in that area? What planning authority is presently set up or envisaged by the Minister or by the Commonwealth to ensure that Alice Springs and the Barrier Reef will not be despoiled, polluted and exploited as so many glorious pleasure resorts in the past have been at the hands of private entrepreneurs? 
My remarks will be very brief. I too commend the Government for introducing this measure which, as the Minister for Housing  (Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin)  has said in the second reading speech provides another opportunity for voluntary organisations and other bodies to participate in the programme of caring for people in need of community support. I have acted as chauffeur in driving my wife around and I suggest that Meals on Wheels has opened up a completely new and interesting field of community work and Commonwealth Government responsibility. Often, to a person who comes into the scope of Meals on Wheels, the organisation's representative is the only visitor they ever have. There is a great amount of comfort in this, particularly for the type of people who engage in these community activities which should be encouraged because they give that little bit of extra brightness to the lives of the people who are in the twilight of their lives. 
Looking through the explanatory material one can see that the number of meals on wheels delivered annually is in the order of 2 million. The approximate cost for the first year was $200,000. It is expected that something like 5 million meals a year may be necessary before the situation is reached where the needs of those requiring this service are being adequately met. As that is  2i  times $200,000 it seems that somewhere or other along the line those responsible for this service, whoever they may be, are being subsidised with very efficient catering because the type of meal which is delivered to these people is, in most cases, a very substantial one. In my State we have a different arrangement. From what I can gather one can never really find out who provides the meat, the vegetables and the other physical things which are in the meals on wheels. I know the organisation in Tasmania which cooks them and I know the organisations which distribute them, but somewhere along the line a much more substantial subsidy than 10c a meal is going into this. At some time in the near future I believe that the State governments or whatever organisations are concerned will have to be compensated for the expenditure in which they are involved. After all, the States have only a partial responsibility in the field of social welfare. It is the responsibility of the Commonwealth to look after aged people. The facilities of the State governments in this field will be strained to the utmost when the number of delivered meals is increased from 2 million a year to 5 million a year. 
There is another point. The aged people whom I have seen receiving these meals are very careful about hygiene. They wash the crockery and the little containers in which the meals are delivered, but those items still have to be taken to a central place and washed. Sometimes replacements are necessary. As the scheme develops all of these activities will need to be coordinated more efficiently than is the case at present. I think that  Senator Mulvihill  had that aspect in mind when he spoke about this as being a fragmentary piece of legislation. It is designed to assist something which has grown up and which has a very great potential if the fullest benefit is to be gained in the ultimate. 
The classification of certain organisations as suitable organisations for subsidy purposes was done in different circumstances. It is possible that those same organisations are responsible for the care of aged people. I have in mind those which provide housekeeping, home nursing and other services. I think this aspect should be looked at very carefully. The Red Cross might be operating in some of the larger cities but in other areas there are service organisations which I believe could be encouraged to adopt this as a project if they understood how to go about obtaining meals. In a small community you would not have available the hospital facilities which often are used in the larger cities for the bulk preparation of the meals, so the meals would have to be sent from a larger centre in heaters or cooked locally. These are all problems which would have to be solved. 
I should like to have on record that I advocate that the whole proposal of expanding this really wonderful facility which is available to old people should be examined in greater depth with a view to more funds being made available so that the work of distribution could be bandied by charitable organisations although the cost of the food provided under the scheme should be borne by the Commonwealth. This is a wonderful innovation. It has had a magnificent response from social welfare organisations which feel that they are really doing something worthwhile when they visit aged people and supply them with something that they need so badly. I know that some of the recipients of these meals were suffering virtually from malnutrition because of their sheer physical inability to cook a meal. I have seen the difference in their appearance. The fact that substantial meals are being delivered to them has given them a new lease of life. It was a really wonderful experience for me to see what is being done. 
The subsidy of 10c a meal is a good start but in this day and age with inflation, the high cost of food and so on, I hope that the subsidy will be increased, particularly as it is proposed to multiply by  2i  times the number of meals delivered. I hope that there will be a change in the present system whereby so much of what is being done is voluntary and being subsidised at different stages along the line. It would be of interest to me to know the actual cost to State governments to prepare the food. 
Yes, but I think that is added to the hospital costs. 
No, but I believe that whatever organisation supplied the food would be hard pressed to pay its way. The chef has to be paid and the food and vegetables have to be bought. 
In some places it is voluntary and in other places it is not. This scheme must be an overall Commonwealth responsibility. It should not be fragmented as at present. Now that the Commonwealth has become involved to this extent it necessarily will become completely involved because the wider the field of application the greater the worth that will be found in it. I should like the Minister, if she can do so, to give a brief outline of how the Government intends to deal with these problems as the plan develops to the stage at which 5 million meals will be delivered. I think the number will be even greater than that because a lot of people would like to be able to obtain the meals. Even though they submit their names to the organisation concerned they are subjected to something like a means test. They have to be graded to see whether they really are eligible to receive the meals. It would be well to have the Minister's views on these aspects when legislation like this is before the Senate. 
In principle this is a splendid measure and I am very glad that the Commonwealth is entering the field. I only hope that on the next occasion when similar legislation is before the Parliament the whole idea will have been expanded and that many more people than are at present receiving this excellent service will be receiving it. I commend the legislation. 
My remarks will be very brief. 1 wish to make a few reflections on what I have gleaned from the verbosity of  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack. He reminded me of the old Raj, the old colonialist, a tatty old remnant of the old order that is in its death throes. 1 was reminded of Casablanca, of the boy who stood on the burning deck. The honourable senator evoked a vision of the flames of the new order that he sees as inevitable. It will come in Africa. 
It will come in Biafra and it will come in Papua and New Guinea. Despite the shibboleths and the froth and bubble released in this chamber it is inevitable that the people of Papua and 
New Guinea will attain their estate and eventually will have their independence. They will overthrow the second order of colonialism. The Germans imposed upon them one system of colonialism. They stupidly taught them what is called pidgin English in order to distinguish them from any other people on earth. English is not a bad international language, but it is not really widely spoken when considered in relation to the size of the world's population. Our administration has lasted for 2 generations. That is nearly long enough to be able to liberate the people of Papua and New Guinea from colonialism. 
I am not speaking about that. In the eyes of some people, noone is ever ready for anything.  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack referred to an elite and the highly divisive elements, ethnic, cultural and economic, in the Territory community. Of course they are there. It is part of the ethic of colonialism to divide and rule. On 4th March 1970 the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  said: 
In harmony with the Government's approach indicated in the Governor-General's Speech the Government intends to introduce some immediate changes within the provisions of the present Papua and New Guinea Act which will give Ministerial Members drawn from the Papua and New Guinea House of Assembly increased powers both individually in relation to the functions of their departments and collectively as members of the Administrator's Executive Council. 
These concessions are being given by the Government are very generous, but why are they given? It is because the people in Papua and New Guinea have seen the light. They have been kept so far behind by Australia's colonial policy that they are now breaking through this crusty old colonialism and saying that they are going to have a share in running their own country, lt is for this reason that the Government is giving these magnificent concessions. The Minister for Works is reported to have said at page 55 of Hansard: 
The Act sets out that the functions of ministerial office holders are generally to assist in the administration of the Government of the Territory to the extent and in the manner provided by arrangements approved by the Minister for External Territories under section 25.  lt is about time that we made some concessions to these people, lt must be remembered that we appear in a rather bad light because of the way that we handled our own Aboriginals in Australia. It took 68 years even to write into the Constitution that our Aboriginals were human beings. Yet here we are setting ourselves up as the great administrators of another indigenous people, our near neighbours. But now, reluctantly, we are giving them a few concessions. 
 As a matter of fact in some countries they would like to do what was done in Tasmania - run over the bastards. 
That is right. It was the policy in Tasmania to shoot them, poison them and to get rid of them. They want now to desegregate the few who remain on Cape Barren Island because the mining interests believe that it would be better if they could get rid of these few poor unfortunate remnants of the coloured people who originally inhabited Tasmania. But the Papuans and New Guineans have some supporters outside their own country. They have support from people like those in the Australian Labor Party. They have the help of Socialists throughout the world who believe in the brotherhood of man, that all men are God's creatures and that there is an equality of man. These are people who believe that merely because their skins are black they are not necessarily to be regarded as servants, creatures or beasts of burden. In Papua and New Guinea they are not being sold as people are being sold in Africa today into South Africa and into Rhodesia - to the raj. This is still happening in this day and age in Africa, just as it happened in New Guinea in the last generation when the Germans had colonial authority. 
No, brother, I am trying to hold the torch that will give a little light to the narrow minded selfish people who have destroyed under the old system of exploitation of man by man. The Stock Exchange has now shown up this system for what it is worth. Selfishness and greed is destroying the system supported by honourable senators opposite. All your institutional establishments are crashing around your ears. 
Today we are trying to find a race of people and to emancipate them from the Establishment. The Government is trying to pick out a few stooges, an elite, in New Guinea who will co-operate and perpetuate this discrimination between one section of Papuans and New Guineans and another section. The intention is to select a few people, put them among the others with their wealth or privileges and allow them to exploit the others. But this will not wash. This has been exposed. The United Nations is finding out what the Government is doing in New Guinea and what is being done under the Australian system. We are finding now that Government supporters are so minded that they have to protect their fellow exploiters throughout the world. Even in this country they are trying to break down the normal democratic processes of Parliament and are trying to implement in this country the jack boot and Fascist ideas of the world in order to keep their system going. But tonight we are discussing the rights of simple, honest, decent people who have lived for thousands of years as happy people. I have seen the people of New Guinea walking along their little soft leafcovered paths. They will meet at the crossroads, hold hands and kiss one another. These are simple, humble people. 
Like the devil you do! You say: 'How can we do others before they do us?' That is the motto today, to do others before they do you, and the numbers count. We see today the most ruthless unethical society the world has ever known, and here we are trying to impose this system on these simple, humble people of Papua and New Guinea. 
My purpose in speaking was to say a few words about what I think of our administration in Papua and New Guinea. Our administration in the Territory will not last long. The Government might pick out a few stooges and keep it going for a while, but the people of New Guinea will get independence. They are entitled to it and they deserve it. We have no right to impose our system on them. We must see that they get independence as quickly as possible and we must provide them with the machinery to enable them to become independent, to take their place under the sun as equals in the community. The longer we delay in giving independence the longer we will have to suffer for the sins that we have imposed on them. 
I hope the Government will take the view that it can no longer impose this system. The whole of South East Asia is fed up with colonialism and it is being pushed out everywhere. There is no room for the idea that we can exploit people who are less fortunate than ourselves. We have been talking in this place about defence. The only reason that we think it is economic to be in Papua and New Guinea is for the purposes of defence. We are not so charitable that we want to give anything to the people of Papua and New Guinea. We want to be there also for economic purposes to help the elite group that we have set up. We have gone into the Territory and taken the land from the people. We have attempted to detribalise them. But we have reached the stage now where we have not been so successful in this aim as we were during the last generation because the people of the Territory now are looking for independence. But we do not like that because it does not conform with the old order. 
I am talking about the policy of this Government in Papua and New Guinea. We must face up to the situation that the days of colonialism in the Territory are numbered. We cannot impose on these people something that they will not have. Incidents in Bougainville showed that as people they have as much steel as any other human beings, that they will protect their rights. 
Yes, coppers. We put coppers in New Guinea to deprive people of their rights. If this Government was worth its salt it would be setting up administrative machinery to allow the people of Papua and New Guinea to exploit their own natura) resources and in Bougainville would be helping the people to gain the advantage of their great copper resources. lt should be putting in educational facilities, schools, hospitals, roads and other aids to development. Every dollar that comes out of Bougainville should go back to help the people. If we took a. Christian approach that is what we would be aiming to do. But what are we doing? We. are allowing one of the world's greatest monopolies into Bougainville to exploit those people. The people whom we are allowing in to Bougainville are only a little better than those who were selling people in slavery in the United States and are selling people in slavery today. That is what could happen to the natives of New Guinea. 
I have seen this exploitation in the Markham Valley and at Bulolo. When they had finished with the gold mines they went into the timber industry. Working for them were young natives who were as capable as you would find anywhere. They were working on tractors or as loggers, tailerouters and doing all sorts of jobs in the timber industry. But do honourable senators realise how much pay they- were receiving? They were getting the equivalent of $5 a week plus a bellyful of rice for luch. It was beautiful rice and they filled their tummies at luch time. To them the wages were good and they regarded the employers in the company - the Bulolo gold mine company, or its subsidiary - as wonderful people because they kept their bellies full and gave them some money. As timbermen these people are just as capable as anybody you would find in Western Australia, Tasmania or anywhere else in Australia where timber is felled. 
They trained themselves. They are intelligent young people. There is a university in the Territory. There are schools all over New Guinea. 
Does the honourable senator think that we discovered education? Do we have specific rights in regard to education? 
They did so themselves. 
I suppose members of the Building Workers Union built them. 
The honourable senator did not, anyway. I do not know whether the expenditure was met by the Australian Government. The excuse of Australia for doing certain things is that it does them for defence purposes. We are obliged to do them. Our mandate requires us to do them. But Australia has not done anything  to  ensure that these people are provided with a suitable education so that they will know that they are not inferior to other people in the world, that they have equal rights to other people, that the law protects them and that there are people outside of Australia who protect their interests. The United Nations should ensure that there is no repetition of the events which occurred in the early days when colonial minded people in Australia like Carpenter and the other exploiters who went up there under the guise and protection of the Australian Government and took the land from the people there by using trickery in order to establish their own coffee, tea and copra plantations. These exploiters have been living off the backs of the indigenous people ever since Australia received the League of Nations mandate to look after this country. 
I think it is necessary to reconsider what we are doing  in  the Territory. Australia is trying to build up an elite group in the Territory which will fit in wilh its policies. I warn the Government that it should take a long term view. Its present policies may last a little while, but they will not last very long. The Government should take notice of the policy of the Australian Labor Party. The Leader of the Opposition in the other place  (Mr Whitlam)  would be able to show the Government the way in which these people should be brought into the brotherhood of man and the friendship of nations. The policies we are discussing tonight are only short term expedients; they will not last very long. We do not want to have hatred on our borders. These people are our next door neighbours and we must make friends with them. They must be continuing friends. 
If  Senator Sim  had been in the Highlands of New Guinea he would have been able to appreciate the story I was trying to convey earlier, which is that these people are able to live together because they do not have any great needs, are not ambitious, are not cheer chasers and are not status seekers. They have their own position in their society and they live humbly. I think they would have been a lot better off if we had never gone amongst them. But we have sought to impose our standards and our systems upon them. We want to do so only because we feel that there is an opportunity to make a profit and for no other reason. 
 As many people have been exploited by the Placer Development Co., of which the Commonwealth Government is a partner, as would have been exploited by any other international company. They are not better off nor any worse off. Placer's shares are probably the most stable shares of any on the unstable stock market today. I suppose it is because Placer has other interests, including the Bulolo timber project, which was given to it as a result of the skulduggery which took place in 1949. 
I wish to make the point that in Papua and New Guinea today - both are our responsibility and there is no difference between the two - we have to do our best to raise the standard of living of the indigenous people and allow them to participate in the great technological and scientific development which is occurring throughout the world. We should show them the way not for the purpose of exploiting them and not for the purpose of creating an elite group but for the end purpose of showing them by proper treatment that the earth belongs to everybody. But if we antagonise these people, which the Government's policies will do in the long run, we will make a rod for own backs. I ask the Government to give thought to my remarks. It will not get anywhere simply by creating an elite group and playing one New Guinean off against another. The Government has to make the New Guineans feel that they are part of an advancing and forward looking movement and that they should be looking for the same things that we are all looking for - a better way of life, opportunities for ourselves and opportunities for the next generation. By way of education we will be able to open up the divine objective of man which he can achieve only if the restrictions imposed on him are lifted. The Government has to assist these people towards their great objective. The Australian Labor Party will do so as soon as it is able to get the present Government out of power. 

 Senator YOUNG (South Australia) [8.47) -  Senator Keeffe  has taken us on a quick fact-finding trip around the Territory of Papua and New Guinea. Actually, he seemed to move from spot to spot so quickly that we did not have much time to find out many of the facts. Therefore, 1 suggest that we should discuss the situation at this stage. Firstly, 1 want to say that it should be remembered that it is only a very short time since the type of sophisticated development which we see in New Guinea today first commenced. 

 Senator O" Byrne has been very critical of the manner in which the type of development which has taken place has been administered. I am sure he will agree with me that it is a country of many variations. Papua and New Guinea is a country of geographical extremes. In the Highlands there is a temperate climate with high rainfall, but when one goes down to the coastal areas one experiences a hot and steamy environment with heavy monsoonal rains during certain periods. Coupled with this we have, because of the difficult terrain and the peculiarity of the country, a great variation in the degree of sophistication of the indigenous people. In the coastal areas the people have had contact with Europeans for quite a number of years, but in the Highland areas there are some indigenous people who have yet to see a white man. I am certain  Senator O'Byrne  will agree with my statement if he looks closer at the logic of it. He must appreciate that because of the great variations there are many problems. The indigenous people vary from what may be classified as sophisticated to basic primitive and primitive. 
In these vast areas there are great extremes in the environment and sophistication. But coupled with this is the fact that one half of the population of the Territory of Papua and New Guinea live in the Highlands, which is an area which has not had contact with Europeans for very long. 
This fact causes problems and imposes a lot of responsibility upon the Administration. It is all very well for  Senator O'Byrne  or the Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Whitlam,  to go to places like Rabaul, Gazelle Peninsula and Bougainville where the people have known the western way of life for a long time and to start criticising.  Senator O'Byrne  himself has made the point that we cannot afford to play one group of people against another. Yet tonight he has discarded that proposition because he has supported his own leader, who has set about to do that very thing. 
The speech that we have just heard from  Senator Greenwood  illustrates how hysterical he has become. 1 wish to refer to the way in which the speech of his colleague in another place, the Attorney-General  (Mr Hughes),  was described this morning. A leading article in the 'Australian' stated: 
. the Government and  Mr Hughes-  and 1 can include  Senator Greenwood  -   . . succeeded only In discrediting themselves.  Mr Hughes'  speech- and I can include  Senator Greenwood's  speech -   . . was an extraordinary tissue of conjecture, smear, insinuation and double-thinking, unworthy of the official imprimatur of either the Government or the Attorney-General. 

 Senator Greenwood's speech could have been part of a general debate, but the Government has not initiated a debate on this matter. Why have not the Ministers spoken about this important issue? Why has a backbencher, an office boy, been given the job?  His  speech tonight was full of hysteria. He spoke to us as a classical storm trooper would speak. He tried to spread fear. 
Of course. He advocates the continuation of this filthy and immoral war.  His  speech illustrates that at long last we who have a conscience about the Vietnam war have penetrated the political veneer of  Senator Greenwood.  He now realises that the cards are stacked against him and against the things that he has advocated over the years. The rest of the world is turning against his views and against the Government's policy. Today, whenever one picks up a paper, one finds that the Press of the world is unanimous that this war must be concluded and that our invading troops and the United States invading troops must be withdrawn from IndoChina. Not only must the troops be withdrawn but also this madness on a grand scale, as it has been described, must be stopped, lt certainly is madness when innocent women and children are burned and bombed under whatever guise it is called. The Government has been given no right to enter this country and it has been unable to justify the tactics that it has employed in Vietnam through its policy of burning and murdering, lt is quite easy for  Senator Greenwood  to rant and rave here tonight, but he is supporting a war that has cost 40,000 American lives, 350 Australian lives and $ 100,000m that could have been spent on the alleviation of hunger, suffering and hardship in other parts of the world. 
They have been maimed and burned by napalm and the like. The tactics used are the worst ever used in warfare by so-called civilised people. The war has lasted longer than any other war in which we have fought. Yet tonight we heard  Senator Greenwood,  speaking on the adjournment motion instead of having the courage to organise his own colleagues into having a full dress debate, claim that he will debate this matter on any platform. He is the only one on the Government side who has ever said that. The others have all run away into their funkholes when they have been challenged to debate this matter on television or on a public platform. 

 - Senator Rae is one of those people who likes to feast off what was described as the 'hoariest, hardiest and most indestructible myth of them all' - the myth of international Communist conspiracy. The people of Vietnam have fought this type of invasion of their country for 100 years or more. Firstly the French invaded their country. Then Australia was included when the British came into Vietnam. Later, taking over the shoes of the French, came the Americans. To our great discredit, Australia has joined in this carnage. The Government has tried to destroy, to decimate and to commit genocide on a race of proud people whose only wish is that they should be given independence. They want their independence. They have every right to have their independence without the inteference of other people. 
The policy that the Government is carrying out today is the same policy that the German Fascists carried out against the Jews, the Poles and other races in Germany. The Government is taking on the role of the Herrenvolk, the master race, lt believes we can destroy this whole race of people yet still have the hide to consider ourselves as Christians, people commanded not to kill and people who are commanded to do unto others as they would that others should do unto them. Daily we are breaking the great Christian beliefs that we are supposed to be upholding. No wonder the Government is getting this reaction whereby people want to go into the streets and demonstrate. No wonder the youth of this country believes that the older generation is a generation of confounded hypocrites who have one rule for Sunday and another rule for every other day of the week. The only way that young people can express their views today is to go out into the streets and demonstrate against the depravity and immorality of Government policy that perpetuates a war such as the one in Vietnam. 
Violence will be encouraged and provoked by the very attitude that the Attorney-General took yesterday and that  Senator Greenwood  took tonight. I believe that  Senator Rae  would support that attitude. If both  Senator Greenwood  and  Senator Rae  were to claim any right at all to offer an alternative to a protest against this war and if they were to do the right thing, they would be in Vietnam supporting our troops. They are young enough and physically fit enough to be there. If they have the type of attitude towards their fellow men that they want to burn and kill them, they should be in Vietnam. 
I shall not take up much more time, but I want to get on record something which I would like  Senator Little  to read and to digest inwardly. I refer to an article by Douglas Brass, Editorial Director of the 'Australian'. The article reads: 
How much longer can we Australians stomach this filthy war that the hapless Americans have got us into? 
How much longer is our glib Government going to turn a blind eye to the terrible things that are being done, in this mad crusade, to miserable wretches in primitive villages? 
When are we going to hear the voice of humane Australia raised in anger over war crimes which have now been officially acknowledged - and projected in blood-red slides to sickened congressmen in Washington? 
In my hand I have a photograph showing an American soldier holding up the dismembered head of a human being - one of God's creatures. What will that soldier say to his child if ever the child recognises the father in the photograph? Will the child say: Daddy, is that what you did in the war? Is that the culmination of 2,000 years of Christianity? Is this what we have come to?' Yet honourable senators opposite have the temerity and the audacity to condemn people who protest against this type of conduct. Douglas Brass's article went on to say: 
When are we going to drop the cowardly role of silence, the callous parade of everything America does, the lies about treaty obligations when only mean self-interest is in mind? Or are we so  brutalised  . . . 
This is the point. As a nation of people, we have become brutalised by the Press and by people such as  Senator Greenwood  making others afraid to go out and protest openly against the atrocities that are being perpetuated. The article continues: 
Or are we so  brutalised  by the cruel and phoney years, so atrophied by our crushing communal non-thought, that we prefer to close our ears indefinitely to the cries of outrage that are deafening our friends and enemies alike? 
I say to  Senator Greenwood  that we are prepared to debate in any place this issue with him or with anyone else. We believe that the troops should be withdrawn from Vietnam. We believe that the National Service Act should be repealed.  Senator Greenwood  and  Senator Rae  should persuade their colleagues to have a full dress debate in the Senate. The Opposition is willing to meet the Government and to mix it with the Government to any extent it likes at any time. In parts of the United States people have turned out in their hundreds to protest. They had success because they appealed to the conscience of  President  Johnson. He realised that his policy was false and wrong. He resigned from his job to go back to his farm in Texas and repent. The man who took his place will have done so under false pretences unless he carries out the policy of withdrawal of troops from Vietnam that he promised the American people. I understand that  President  Nixon is to make a statement on that subject tomorrow. During his campaign for election he said: 'We do not want a wider war. But what about Laos and Cambodia? The war is widening there, so what sort of leadership is the world getting? 
I do not know where the troops came from but the war certainly is widening. I am saying that a challenge faces  President  Nixon to be able to justify the claims he made during the American presidential campaign, including the claim that he would withdraw American troops from Vietnam, which helped to gain his election. The eyes of the world are upon him. He is concerned not only as an individual.  His  reputation and the prestige of the United States are on the world's chopping block at present.  President  Nixon must honour his responsibility to withdraw his troops from Vietnam and to bring about there a settlement and a cessation of the carnage. Tonight  Senator Greenwood  has shown that he is fearful of the consequences of his own Government's policy. At last his conscience is pricking him and be is showing it by the hysteria with which he addressed the Senate tonight. 

 Senator RAE (Tasmania) fi 1.421  -  I hope I will be able to address the Senate without the hysteria alleged against  Senator Greenwood  and displayed by  Senator O'Byrne.  We are discussing a matter of great moment to the community. The war in Vietnam is of great importance to our community, but so also is a call to anarchy within the community. Let us study for a moment the stated aims of the so-called Vietnam Moratorium Campaign for 8th, 9th and 1 0th May. 
1 direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, ls the statement appearing in today's Press correct that Phantom aircraft would be available on a least- or a reimbursement basis and that such a lease would cost in the vicinity of $850,000 for each Phantom aircraft for 2 years? Should not the replacement be made in default of the delivery of the FI 1 1 aircraft ordered in L963? Will the Minister for Defence, during his time in the United States, shop around the American discount houses or used plane yards to see whether he can get a trade-in on the $200m equity that we have in the FI 11C aircraft? 
I move: 
That the Senate, at ils rising, adjourn till tomorrow al 2.30 p.m. 
Our purpose in moving this motion is to stress again the desirability of maintaining an embargo on the export of merino rams until a majority of those persons affected shall decide by referendum or other fair means in favour of removing or relaxing the embargo. Over the last 12 months we have been drawing this matter to the attention of the Senate and, after succeeding in having a majority of the Senate decide that the embargo should not be lifted until a referendum was held among wool growers throughout Australia, we feel not only that the Senate has been held in contempt but also that the majority of merino wool growers in Australia and the majority of the electors in Australia are being held in contempt. Perhaps it is a bit egotistical to quote one's own words, but in the light of circumstances that have developed in the last 12 months I think it would be of interest to the Senate if I were to quote what I said on 22nd April last year  -  a year ago tomorrow. At that time I said: 
Generally the Australian wool industry is facing the most serious crisis in its history. The crisis can be averted only if we, responsible members of this Parliament, accept our responsibility to try to help the industry resolve its major problems. The wool industry  is  perilously close to an economic crisis caused by this very cost price squeeze. 
There were some interjections, after which 1 said: 
It does not matter how much honourable senators opposite snigger and try lo pull the wool over other people's eyes, they cannot escape the fact that the wool industry has become one of the worst fields of investment in this nation. The return that the grower gets from his investment in his property is down as low as  1%  or  li%  if he is lucky enough to be outside the drought area. Other people can invest in oil companies and in the mineral industries and other profitable business ventures, but the grazier cannot share in that wealth. He has to ask his bank manager for a loan to erect some extra fencing or to buy  a  new car. He cannot invest in the same way that other people do. His return on his initial investment is very poor indeed, lt will get worse because of the increasing cost factor all the time that this inflation is continuing. 
I would challenge any honourable senator on the Government side of the chamber to refute at present not only the truth of that statement but also the grounds on which the prediction was made. Throughout Australia today on all sides we see meetings of graziers and wool growers, and we have seen even dramatic demonstrations in the streets of Melbourne where 10,000 people associated with the various primary industries gathered. A great number of them were wool growers who were trying to attract the attention of the Government. The Government has become complacent about their difficulties and arrogant with the power that it wields in Australia. There is more and more government by the Executive, which is completely out of touch with the hopes, feelings and wishes of the people of the electorate, lt has come to the stage where the farmers are prepared to take direct action. That is only a taste of what this Government will have to expect unless something more constructive is done on its behalf. 
As I have said, the wool industry is not facing only an economic crisis. The cost squeeze is having a bad effect on the whole of its economy. We must bear in mind the fact that the wool industry is still one of the greatest contributors towards our foreign exchange earnings. Despite the fact that soaring results are being achieved from the discovery of new mineral fields and that the export overseas of our basic ores is bridging temporarily a gap that would have been most serious to the nation's economy, nevertheless, we will overlook at our peril the importance which the wool industry generally has for Australia today. There should be no need to stress the fact that the wool industry is earning 30% of our export revenue, although only in the last few days it has been announced that revenue from the export of our minerals is equalling the revenue earned from the export of wool. Nevertheless, as I have said previously, Australia is still largely riding on the sheep's back. 
Tt also should be unnecessary to keep reminding honourable senators of the fact that the wool which is produced in Australia is of a unique quality. There are people who have a vested interest in wanting to exploit the present situation. I believe that the Australian Wool Industry Conference has been giving the wrong impression to the Government on this very important issue because of interests within the Conference. I believe that the stud breeders themselves are. weilding undue influence and that this advice has  been  given to the Government as a result  of  their pressures. Because of Australia's ability to produce merino wool of a unique quality, I ask the most important question whether we are morally entitled to place at. a disadvantage those growers throughout the Commonwealth who produce the bulk of this wool, by exporting to overseas countries the basis of their good quality wool, which is the merino ram. 
We know that a sale was held in Sydney at which 50 merino rams were sold to overseas buyers. 1 read in one report that 48 rams were sold, but in another report 1 read that 50 rams were sold. Of course, these rams were sold against the wishes of many wool growing organisations throughout Australia. The buyers who were present at this sale of 50 rams came from South Africa, the Argentine, China, Haly and Rumania. The sale took place despite the Senate's resolution, despite the opposition of the Governments of Victoria and Western Australia, and despite the opposition of the Graziers Association of New South Wales, the Victorian Farmers Union, and the United Farmers and Woolgrowers Association of New South Wales. This brings roe to the question: Who was in favour of lifting the ban? When the whole situation is examined, it seems that there has been a determination on the part of a selected few stud growers throughout Australia, who saw the opportunity to cash in on a demand throughout the world and, of course- 
 The ownership of many things could be questioned. We could question whether any of the things that people use are owned exclusively by certain people. 
One might ask: Who owns the land in Australia? 1 know that titles are given, but one might ask that question. Who owns the Australian transport system? 
The sheep are owned by all the Australian stud breeders and by all the Australian wool growers. Three or four studs had the advantage of selling sheep at a sale which attracted buyers from all parts of the world. Some of the sheep sold there are to be dispersed throughout the world. Wherever there is a market for the sheep, they will be sold. 
I have no doubt that there is a ready market for them. Later I will produce figures showing the prices paid for the sheep. That will prove my point. Compared with Ihe large number of people who will be disadvantaged by the sale of these sheep, very few people will gain from the sale of these sheep. That is one matter to which the Parliament should pay very close attention. 
(. am not begging the question at all. The ban was imposed in the first place because 5,000 rams were exported to Russia'. 
I meant to say that merino sheep were exported when the ban was imposed. From those sheep the bulk of the Russian merino flock was formed. The progeny of those sheep that were exported have formed the nucleus of Russia's fine wool industry. 
We know it from statistics. I have the proof here. We do not want to repeat the mistakes of the past. The proposition that we put is that when the ban was imposed there was a very good reason for its imposition. Those who favour the lifting of this ban have never advanced an argument to counter the one advanced when it was imposed. The sale of' these rams was against very strong public opinion and against the wish of the Senate and the organisations that 1 have mentioned. I think that the advice given to the Government by the Australian Wool Industry Conference should be examined very closely. Similarly, the Wool Industry Conference itself should be examined very closely. Perhaps it would be of interest to the Senate to know that the man who advised the Government,  Mr Vines,  the  Chairman  of the Conference, for some reason or other found it necessary to retire from the Conference. Perhaps  Mr Vines  has realised his great mistake in tendering to the Australian Government the advice that was tendered. By a vote of 37 to 16 the Wool Industry Conference advised on the floor scheme for wool selling, yet when a referendum was held the Conference's advice was defeated overwhelmingly. The same thing would apply to the advice that  Mr Vines  gave to the Government about the lifting of the ban on the export of merino rams, if ever a referendum were held. 
Government senators advance the argument - and it is a very weak argument, in my view - that it would be difficult to classify a merino sheep breeder or wool grower. A classification can be made at various levels. A man who runs a certain number of sheep could be classified as a merino wool grower. A man who produces a certain number of bales of merino wool could be classified similarly. I do not think it is terribly important how the classification of a merino wool grower is made so long as the bulk of the growers participate in the proceedings that decide the destiny of their industry. I believe that their industry is vitally concerned as to whether the ban should be lifted. 
The argument is advanced that wool is fighting fierce competition from artificial fibres. Of course it is fighting competition. But most natural products with man made competitors meet the same competition. The challenge is to the industry to improve its product, to reduce its costs and to meet the competition. If the wool growers do not do that they will just go out of business altogether. The argument that we can export our best quality sheep and help to improve the quality of the product of our competitors so that, in turn, the sales of our wool on the world market can be increased is one of the most specious arguments one could possibly hear. 
If people intend to follow that line of argument, why is it that we can sell all our merino wool on the world market? We have ready markets for it. There is no carryover of merino wool or any other type of wool, such as there is of wheat. 
That is the point 1 am making. We are giving our wool away. Yet honourable senators, such as the one who has just interjected, will stand up and say: 'Let us send our best quality merino rams overseas. Let us sell them at the best prices wc can get for them. That, in turn, will improve the quality of wool which will compete with ours, and then that will improve the demand for wool'. Within  12  months their words have come back and struck in their throats, because the price of wool has never in the last  20  years been as low as it is now. 
The argument put forward by honourable senators opposite is that we should send our rams overseas so that the quality of merino sheep in other parts of the world can be improved and in  10  or  15  years  wool  from those countries will come on to the market and supply a demand for medium to fine wools - the equivalent of merino wool - and that, in turn, will keep the demand for the natural fibre, the merino wool, going. Despite the fact that we are producing wool under our environmental conditions, with the genetic and other favourable factors that go to make up our merino breed, the price of wool on the world market is dropping. 
We should have a government with the intestinal fortitude to go into the matter that has been mentioned in the last few days, namely, that the majority of Australia's wool is sold on - futures before it is auctioned. That  proves to me that undoubtedly the whole of the merino wool selling system is a racket which should be examined right through to the very end by the Australian Government and those responsible for this very important industry. Another factor that has been advanced by the Government as an argument in favour of the lifting of the ban is that merino stud breeders would be given an incentive to improve their breeds if they had this extra market. But, as events have turned out, the merino industry has become so depressed that the breeders will not even maintain their Australian market. 
Many people have decided that there is no future in growing wool, and they are looking for alternative industries. This is a very serious matter. The people who have been producing our best wool - the medium to fine quality wools which have found ready markets throughout the world down the long years - are deciding to turn to beef production or wheat production. They are finding that the gates are closed against them in many of these alternative industries. At the same time this means the breaking up of some of the very fine breeding lines that have been giving the quantity and the quality to our wool, which has been playing such an important part in our balance of payments. 
We come back again to the policy of the Government in supporting an unknown section of the Wool Industry Conference. It is unknown for the simple reason that many knowledgeable people will give their view that this Conference is stacked in favour of a certain section of the wool growing industry. 
Ah, but it is very hard to obtain information because of the various vested interests involved in the wool industry. It is a very old established interest. It is around the Sydney waterfront that one can see the big rake-off from wool. It goes to the people involved in the auction system for the selling of wool. The big profits are not made by the men who undergo all the hazards associated with wool growing. The big shipping interests, the top makers and other people along the line before the wool gets to the manufacturer - they are the ones who are getting a cosy little cut. 
I can sustain my argument on this one. Our own merino wool industry will have to be given every possible protection necessary. We must start at the base of the industry. Firstly, the economy has been allowed to become inflated. This has to be paid for somewhere along the line. The cost of wool production has now reached the stage at which the wool growers are losing faith in the economic policy of the Government, they are losing faith in the Government, and they are showing this by their open demonstrations against the Government. That is the No.  1  issue. The inability of the Government to face up to the problems of primary producers is being shown more and more graphically in the returns received by primary producers. The wheat grower is in a critical situation with the imposition of quotas and with over production. The inability of the Government to dispose of the wheat surplus is a grave reflection on the Government's capacity. Then we come to the dairy industry. I suppose there is a no more unsettled industry than the dairy industry. The Government has failed the people in that industry. Then there are the fresh fruit growers and the dried fruit growers. In all branches of primary industries crises are arising. The Australian Labor Party believes that the Government is condoning an added burden by allowing a small and interested section of the Wool Industry Conference to influence Government policy with something which does not carry the full accord of the people concerned. The Australian Labor Party believes in this respect the Government has evaded and avoided its responsibility for the sake of expediency. We on this side of the chamber are still of the opinion that the Senate is being held in contempt by the policy of not continuing the ban, despite the fact that the majority of honourable senators carried a resolution which said in effect that this ban should not be lifted until a referendum was held amongst merino wool growers. How is the Government going to face up to its claim that it is democratic government mindful of the importance of the Senate as a House of review of legislation? It has been the very proud claim of the rump Party, which has kept the Government in power over so many years, that it represents the primary producers of this country. How is that Party going to face the primary producers honestly in this critical time and say that it is carrying out its job in this Parliament as it promised when it knows very well that the majority of honourable senators voted against the lifting of this ban? Some honourable senators may have friends or pressure groups behind them and helping them, but that does not relieve them of their responsibility to the whole of the wool industry. lt is on those grounds that the Australian Labor Party believes that the Australian wool grower has been let down in so many directions. The final and crushing blow is that this Government, by its policy of lifting this merino ban, is aiding and abetting Australian competitors overseas. There is no shadow of doubt about that, lt is shown by the very fact that on (he first sale such a keen interest was shown by buyers from the various countries I have named to obtain the Australian merino strain. These buyers were prepared to pay such high prices for the Australian merino strain because they know the great advantages they will gain for their own wool industries, ft is a specious argument to say that these sales are going to help the world-wide wool industry  10  produce more wool, so creating a greater demand. This is some of the most muddled thinking I have ever heard presented in support of the case. We have reached the unfortunate situation where the final responsibility has come down on the industrial workers of this country. They have decided that if the Government is going to be so recreant to its trust they are going to take direct action similar to that taken by the farmers in Victoria the other day. They are going to show their disappointment and disapproval of the Government's policy. They have issued an ultimatum to the Government that until a referendum is held and the wishes of the wool growers are carried out the rams are not going to get out of the country. I understand that by some nefarious means 2 rams were smuggled out of Australia. But what a Pyrrhic victory that was. The airline which carried the rams ran the grave risk of having its airliners throughout the world grounded. That airline wants to be very careful in future not to take a similar attitude to that which it took in allowing these rams to be exported after the Senate had insisted that a referendum should be held among the woolgrowers before rams were allowed to be exported. 
The Australian Labor Parly stands firm. The embargo on the export of merino rams must be maintained. The imposition of a ban on the export of rams by one section of the community, the Transport Workers Union, is only the first of many actions that could be taken if the Government is going lo persist in its attitude of defying the Senate and defying what the Australian Labor Party believes is the wish of the majority of woolgrowers in this country. The only fair means of deciding this is to proceed as rapidly as possible to organise a referendum. This could be done on a basis which is quite fair. If voting in the referendum is to be limited to producers of a reasonable amount we could set the lower production limit at 10 bales, which is quite a reasonable clip for a small wool grower. Those producing 10 bales or more would be eligible to vote in such a referendum. Whichever way the result went it would clear this matter up. A decision would be obtained. There will be no decision and. no finality in this matter, and no continuity of policy for the wool growers, and particularly for stud breeders, unless such a decision is made by referendum. If the Government tries to find ways and means of getting around the export ban it will find itself in serious trouble. To relieve the breeders of that, responsibility I believe that the Government should move in and have the matter decided. Not only would that bring a lot more peace to the industry, it would also allow the wool growers to direct their energies and their minds towards the solution of a great problem which faces them - the imminent bankruptcy of their industry. 1 commend this to the Senate. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Laucke)  - Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for External Territories. Will the Minister immediately cancel the corrective institution ordinance that permits the use of leg irons on New Guinea citizens? Will he make a statement to the Senate as to why 2 indigenes have been kept in gaol for periods during which leg irons were placed on one of them from 2nd December to 18th February and from 5th March to 17th March? A doctor's report stated that this man was suffering from cellulosis, a skin infection of the right foot and leg and that this could have resulted from abrasions to the skin caused by the leg irons. Will the Minister make a report on the 2 natives who have been kept in leg irons in gaol in New Guinea? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Health aware of a crisis situation in the nursing section of hospitals throughout Australia as indicated by a reduction in the recruiting rate, an increasing drop-out rate, a growing shortage of nursing staff which results in vacant beds, and a dissatisfaction among nurses in relation to their terms and conditions of employment, their salaries and their status? Will the Minister for Health call a meeting of all State Ministers for Health and the heads of health departments in the Commonwealth and the States to examine ways and means of arresting the decline in morale in this most important but neglected segment of the health services of the nation? 
Because of the importance of this great profession and because of the great service that it gives both in Australia and overseas, I will certainly put the points raised by the honourable senator before the Minister for Health. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Civil Aviation. Is it a fact that there is no protective radar screen covering Bass Strait and the northern approaches to Tasmania? If this is so, and in view of the increase in air and sea activity in the waters of Bass Strait, will the Minister give high priority to the installation of such a protective radar screen? 
Is the Leader of the Government in the Senate aware that due to lack of funds there is a lag of from 9 to 12 months in satisfying applicants for homes under the Commonwealth-State housing scheme in Tasmania? is it a fact thai mortgages on housing contracted in the past and still in operation will be subject to  increased interest rates, thus adding a further burden on the shoulders of the family man? Is not Treasury policy of high interest rates and lack of provision of adequate finance for housing belting the family man where it hurts most? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National development the following question, upon notice: 
In view of the widespread interest by the people of northern Tasmania in the future of the woodchip industry and the dispute between the Japanese traders and the Department of National Development over the price of wood-chips, will the Minister give consideration to setting up an industry in Tasmania under the Industrial Research and Development Grants Act to provide for the full development of the manufacture of the end products of this industry both in Tasmania and throughout the rest of the Commonwealth so as to promote Australian primary industry and decentralisation. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for External Affairs, upon notice: 
What guarantees has Australia that the Japanese Government will not abandon Article 9 of the Japanese Constitution and re-arm Japan to its former level. 
As Pakistan, South Viet-Nam, Cambodia and Indonesia all have military governments, as the result of coups d'etat, is the Australian Government concerned at the growing number of such military governments in the South-East Asian area with whom Australia has been cultivating closer co-operation. 
Docs the Government believe that the domino' theory could be applied to the proliferation of military governments in the whole SouthEast Asian region. 
I understand that was one of the factors, but there is an inherent difficulty for all branches of shipping in Tasmania. The Department of Transport in Tasmania has given a promise to the people of Tasmania, similar to many promises that have been made in the past, that everything possible will be done to overcome shipping difficulties. The Department has asked for close liaison and prompt reporting of difficulties by Tasmanian exporters and importers. It is my view that these problems have been brought constantly before the Federal Minister for Shipping and Transport and before the State Department of Transport. If they still need further information it is difficult to know how long they will be seeking information and when some sort of action will result. A very important part of the inadequacy of the plans that are under way relates to the selection of a suitable port for the marshalling of Tasmanian produce. In view of the assistance that has been given to other parts of the Commonwealth in the way of assistance for railway and road construction, I consider that Tasmania is justified in asking for assistance of a scale that would allow for the construction of a connecting rail link between Launceston and Bell Bay. I consider that Bell Bay, the port of Launceston, would have a strong claim for becoming the main marshalling port for products for export from Tasmania because they are at a central point in the north of Tasmania, are closest to the port of Melbourne and are relatively equidistant from the north west, north east and south of Tasmania. However, Bell Bay starts a long way behind scratch because there is no rail link between Launceston and Bell Bay, a distance of about 30 miles. 
If we have an attitude such as the one displayed by  Senator Marriott  we will continue to experience the shambles that we have seen through jealousies between one end of the island and the other. I hope that for the sake of Tasmania the attitude expressed by  Senator Marriott  will be overlooked and that the authorities in Tasmania will grasp the situation and ask the Commonwealth to provide sufficient funds to finance the railway. At least that will put Tasmania in a position where it can compete. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
Does theLeader of the Government in the Senate know of any protests against or violence associated with a recent mass demonstration of Victorian farmers against Liberal Government farm policy? As the right to demonstrate has been accepted in our day and age, why are Government supporters not so disturbed about Government foreign policy in carrying on an illegal, immoral and undeclared war against women and children in a foreign country? 
I ask the Leader of the Government whether he has seen a copy of last night's Melbourne 'Herald' and an article headed: 'Pledge on Cambodia: 8 Weeks Then We'll Quit- Nixon', which stated: 

 President Nixon promised Leaders of Congress today that all US combat troops in Cambodia would be withdrawn by June 30. 
Will the Leader of the Government prevail on our Prime Minister to make this Parliament a promise that all Australian troops will be withdrawn from Vietnam by the same date? 
In addressing my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health 1 remind her that on 23rd April I asked whether she was aware of a crisis situation in the nursing profession because of a reduction in the recruiting rate, an increase in the drop-out rate and a shortage of nursing staff resulting in vacant beds. 
I asked my question on 23rd April. I would like to add that I drew attention to the dissatisfaction among nurses in relation to their terms and conditions of employment. I now ask again, on 12th May, whether the Minister for Health will call a meeting of State Ministers for Health with a view to conducting u thorough examination of the critical situation in the nursing profession. I repeat that I first asked this question on 23rd April. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Social Services aware that the cost of 400 commodities in every day use - food and clothing lines - increased during April? Is the Minister aware that this trend has robbed age and invalid pensioners of still more of their pension pittance? What does the Government intend to do to stop the galloping inflation that is hurting those in the community who are defenceless against such inflation? 
This debate has touched on the matter of a number of Vietcong flags being produced at the Moratorium demonstrations last Friday. But that is only a side issue that could be likened to the production by somebody of a Japanese or German flag. The other day a German flag bearing a swastika was raised outside this House. We cannot control the people who do that and who display similar idiosyncrasies at demonstrations. It is their own business if they want to express their freedom to raise some sort of flag. We are not responsible for those persons. In my home town the other day young people were jumping up and down on the footpaths and shouting out slogans as we marched by. They were exercising a prerogative just as we were, but the difference was that we had the permission of the police to march. We had a police escort and were orderly. 
Those young people chose their way to demonstrate against us. We did not get hot under the collar because they displayed offensive slogans. I do not know whether they carried particular flags such as the green flag of Ireland, or flags bearing such emblems as the Italian bundle of slicks, the German swastika, or the rising sun of the Japanese. All those were symbols in the past. There is no need to get hot under the collar when the words 'patriotism' and 'nationalism' or similar words arc used to make people get excited. 
The issue that we might well discuss today involves statements made in this Parliament before last Friday that have been proved by time to have been completely false and misleading.  Senator Webster  today referred to  'Senator Cavanagh  and other subversive senators'. He was made to withdraw that particular statement.  Senator Webster  might choose to carry a Chinese flag, as he really should as a member of the Australian Country Party. He should carry a Chinese flag in the streets in order to honour the people who are maintaining many of his Country Party farming colleagues in a state of solvency. But for the wheat being sold by Australia to China our wheat stabilisation scheme would be in a very sorry plight. We would excuse  Senator Webster  if he and the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr McEwen)  and other members of the Austraiian Country Party were to hold a special celebration day to pay honour to the people who are purchasing so much of our wheat. 
Indirectly, of course, those people are assisting North Vietnam and people who could be classified under the present standards by which war is not declared. If it suits you, and if you do not like another nation's philosophy, and if you have control of the industrial and military complex that is astride the world today, centred in the United States, you just go to war. I am certain that the presidents of the United States, such as former  President  Johnson and present  President  Nixon, are not in control of the machinery of government in that nation.  1  believe that the military and industrial leaders of the United States are the only people who can gain physically and financially from the war. They have a vested interest in the continuation of wars. There would be no war if the United States Government was influenced by peace seeking people, but there would be an enormous repercussion on the United States economy, which would bc thrown into a state almost of major depression. Present unemployment in the United States stands at about  4  million. Throughout the world millions of United Slates troops are scattered. This is a very expensive charge on the taxpayers of the United Stales. 
United States industries are engaged in the- manufacture of aircraft, tanks and armaments. lt is the greatest armament manufacturing complex ever known in the history of the world, operating at full blast. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to K p.m. 
At the suspension of the sitting I was pointing out that it had appeared as though the United States of America had become severely divided within itself. Although  President  Nixon claims that the United States is the strongest, the greatest and the most powerful nation in the world, a nation which is divided to the extent that the United States is divided, I would suggest, creates a precedent the like of which has never been understood or realised before in a nation of such strength. If we look down the history of countries which have embarked upon a policy simitar to that of the United Slates we see that they have had a united purpose behind them which has taken them to a point where either they have met total destruction, as happened to the dictatorships of Germany and Italy or. wilh the support of their own people and their allies who have been prepared to go to the last ditch, to fight to the last man on the beaches, and so on, have become victorious. But here we see a situation in which the United States is fast losing its credibility in the light of what is claimed by the  President. 
The amazing thing is, as the honourable senator who has just interjected reminds me, that we see this spirit prevailing not only in the streets of Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart but also in Berlin, Paris and Milan. 
Yes, in Launceston. The flag of protest has been carried through the world. The United States Administration must realise that every time there is a demonstration against the United Slates in the national capital of that country, throughout the world United States credibility and status is reduced. We heard the news only a few moments ago that a committee of the United Slates Senate has voted 9 to I against the supply of funds for United Stales troops fighting in Cambodia after 1st. July. That must humiliate the  President  of the United Stales. If we suggest that the United States Hag is losing some of its popularity throughout the world we are accused of being subversive and of being all kinds of nasty people. Yet in the United Stales the defence committee of the Senate did not arrive at its decision with a small majority of perhaps 6 to 4 but arrived at it with a majority of 9 to I - almost  a  unanimous decision. That highly esteemed committee of the Senate deemed fit to vole against the supply of finance for American troops. This is a fantatsic situation, us a result of which surely the Administration of Australia must realise that within the United Stales there is something very much amiss. 
This brings me back to the point that I was making before the suspension of the sitting. The situation has become out of hand because the industrial and military people of the United States have taken the administration out of the hands of the Parliament and virtually out of the President's hands. The  President  is a prisoner of a system more pernicious, more subtle, more insidious, more undemocratic and more suicidal nationally than any system that has been evolved in the Western world. The military industrial complex of Germany had as a background the Krupp empire with all the militarism of the Prussians, lt had as the ideal historical background this long training of the German people towards the belief thai they were a superior race, the Herrenvolk. 
There was the brainwashing, over generations that they were the superior race. They were brainwashed to believe that the Jews must be annihilated so that they could get back to that beautiful, clear Aryan strain of people who would lead the world. This was the philosophy of the Nazi Germans. 
All the tricks and techniques of the Germans have been followed holus-bolus by this complex in the United States and there is no doubt that it has lost nothing in its interpretation of the philosophy. Many millions of dollars profit are being made through the perpetuation of war and wherever it is occurring throughout the world the smutty finger of the industrialists and militarists of the United States can be found. They are pouring troops into other countries for the profits that can be gained, but they are doing it under the guise of stopping the thrust of Communism. 
The United States is not supplying the Russians with arms. 
There is no profit there. 
No. 
I do not know how much you make out of the wheat when you sell that to China. I have spoken about the wheat before and the importance to our economy of China purchasing our wheat. 
I wish to get back to the point that I was making. Wherever we look throughout the world we find this hoary old myth of Communism which has absolutely hypnotised people everywhere. It is likened to the great octopus, the tentacles of which will suck people into Communism. This great bogey has been built up, but why? Wherever it exists the power of the United States can be directed towards it. This helps the military and industrial economy of the United States to get rid of its surplus arms. It is a means of settling unemployment in the United States. Without the need for vast industrial armament industries, the like of which the world has never known, not only would there be the present rate of unemployment in the United States but also there would be an unemployment rate more than twice the existing rate. But because of the number engaged in these industries to supply countries, not only where the United States has military representation and a substantial number of troops but also other countries, their unemployment rate is reduced. They would have enormous problems if they were not able to export armaments. They have reached the stage now where they are putting up to the Australian Government that our inspection of mutton is insufficient. There has been some suggestion of lymphonitis or some other complaint with our mutton, but this is just another American hypocrisy prompted by the mutton lobby in the United States. 
It is a fact that they import our bulls because hamburgers in the United States are almost the staple diet of the average American. Because of the inflation in the United States the average American cannot afford to buy the choice cuts of beef. As an alternative the Americans buy all our old boners, our old drought stricken stock and our old bulls. This is a fact. American people have told me that the demand for Australian second and third grade beef is fantastic in the United States. 
I want to get back to the subject which illustrates the hypocrisy of the propaganda machine. It comes back again to the question of how big is the lie. This is the Hitlerian philosophy: Tell them the big lie and repeat it and you will get people to believe it. This is why we have been sucked into this war in Vietnam. In the first place we were lied to about the agreements that had been made. The Vietnamese people were doublecrossed over the Geneva Convention. I do not think the United States ever wanted to see that agreement work so that there would be an election, within 2 years. At that time President Eisenhower of the United States said that if an election were to be held within 2 years 80% of Ho Chi Minh's supporters would vote for unification and would vote for a government suitable to them. Then there have been other incidents along the way. and the propaganda machine has been directed at the Australian people through our own news media. There was the Gulf of Tonkin incident. When history is written this will prove to have been the greatest doublecross that was ever put over in the war of propaganda. In the Gulf of Tonkin incident people with sampans - and we have never seen or heard of any North Vietnamese war vessel which is bigger than a sampan- 
They fired on the American Navy to the extent not only that the Navy had to shoot the sampans out of the water, but also that the armed forces of the United States had to be committed to Vietnam. If we ever survive the present trend in world affairs, when the history of this war is written we will find that the Gulf of Tonkin incident was the focal point on which the United States was talked into being committed to the Vietnam war by the military and industrial complex advisers and also by the secret organisation, the Central Intelligence Agency, which is a supranational organisation, which combines the American military, spy and intelligence systems. There is not one honourable senator opposite who would not believe and would not understand what I am saying when I speak of the power of the CIA throughout the world. Wherever people assemble there is this subtle, insidious influence of the CIA. Bat, nevertheless, this is the nature of modern affairs and modern warfare. 
Then we come to the next phase of the big lie and the big doublecross. We saw the withdrawal of  President  Johnson to Texas, the subsequent Presidential election and then the propaganda machine which said: 'We will not widen this war. We will withdraw our troops.' The United States has withdrawn its troops, but into Cambodia. What a doublecross that has turned out to be. They have withdrawn their troops into Cambodia instead of withdrawing them back to America, which was the promise made to the people of the United States. Throughout the length and breadth of the United States people are so frustrated and annoyed at having been told this great lie and given this great doublecross, that they are coming out into the streets to demonstrate. Students are demonstrating on their campuses. This is making the American Administration so bewildered that it is starting to panic. It is starting to turn gunfire on to the students in the universities. This is an indication of a nation divided within itself, a nation in panic. We are trying to show honourable senators opposite that they have been caught up in this. 
This is an example of the old phoney practice of trying to smear anyone who is prepared to front up to the realities of life. We are living in a fools paradise if we do not face the facts to which I have referred tonight. History alone will prove whether what I have said is right or wrong, because the mass media are censored at their very source of information. There is a screening of information coming through to us, and one can see this by reading some of the American magazines. One will see articles in American magazines which will give part of the truth. On the other hand one will see unanimity amongst practically the whole of the Australian Press which gives people a one-sided, biased line which, in my view, is biased for the purpose of keeping the Australian people under a cloud and ill-informed. 
Because of the fact that the Vietnam Moratorium Campaign has been given quite an airing tonight, I should like to refer back to the debate which took place recently, in which  Senator Greenwood  raised this matter. 
It is not a current debate. It took place on the motion for the adjournment of the Senate on 15th and 16th April. While I have the page of Hansard open in front of me, I should like to refer to what  Senator McManus  said on that occasion. This was when he was so confident, and hopeful that he would be able to preen himself in the Senate today and say: I told you so. I knew there would be violence.' He said: 
Let nobody be in any doubt. This is a definite call to violence and disorder. Of course, Monash University would not be behind it by any means. 
How disappointed the old senator is. Would he not have loved to think that this would be right. He also said: 
The demonstrators are to be grouped in  3  battalions of  20 to 40  students and will link arms and progress along the streets in a snake dance pattern which is modelled on the methods of Japanese student groups. 
We have the honourable senator on record. We know his form now. Earlier in the debate we heard  Senator Greenwood  trying to paint the great picture. He said: 
I say that (he Vietnam Moratorium Campaign is not being adopted  for  democratic purposes  nor  as part  of  democratic processes.It is an invitation to lawlessness; it is an invitation to mob rule. I believe that it is unnecessary. 
He went on to quote a Press headline which referred to a 'Bomb plan for South Australia'. He said: 
Violent demonstrations were being planned and Molotov cocktails being made for the Vietnam moratorium' campaign to be held in Adelaide on May  8, 9  and  10,  the  DLP's  State secretary  (Mr 
J. Posa) claimed yesterday. 

 Senator Toohey interjected and said: Sensational nonsense'. It certainly was.  Senator Greenwood  continued: 
Still referring to  Mr  Posa, this report states: 
He said he had evidence that Molotov cocktails were being made. 
They might not be used but there will be violence in Adelaide and it will be deliberately fostered' he said. 
I can say to the Senate that violence was deliberately fostered. It was attempted to be fostered everywhere by people who were also present here in Canberra, who displayed the Nazi swastika symbol and who distributed National Socialist Party literature. 
And in Adelaide members of the Army were taken off the streets. In the demonstration outside the Senate we saw these National Socialists openly parading themselves, supporting the Government policy. I saw them with a Vietcong flag.I do not know where they got it from. One of the demonstrators took it over, exploded a cracker inside of it and carried it along burning. The point I am making is that if he had a Vietcong flag, why did not honourable senators opposite accuse him of being subversive? It  is  because anyone, I suggest, can obtain a Vietcong flag. Then there is another point about the word 'Vietcong'. This word seems to be exclusively for Australians, because I saw a film recently which showed an American soldier who had captured a Vietcong, and the soldier had the Vietcong quivering in a corner while he was saying: You VC, you VC, you VC. He was not saying 'Vietcong'. The poor devil had never heard an American speak before let alone know what a VC meant. He probably thought it meant the Victoria Cross. 
Yes, or Vince Gair. He got the V.C. at Wee Waa. The point I make is that the flags which honourable members opposite said were so subversive were home made flags. Anybody could display them if they wanted to. This is the very point that honourable senators opposite forget. Why should not people go out in the streets and demonstrate? The Ustashi have demonstrated. I am sorry  Senator Mulvihill  is not here to tell us about the little dissident groups who wave their flags any time they want to. I remember having a rather heated discussion with the late, respected and esteemed  Senator Sir Shane  Paltridge about a Gestapo group leading the Returned Services League march on Anzac Day in Western Australia. I objected strongly. 

 - Senator Sim was  there. He was leading them. 
I withdraw and apologise. I believe the whole debate will be a continuing one because the future of this nation is involved. The war is one of the thresholds and one of the watersheds of history. In my view, it will be the last of the brush fire wars. China has the thermonuclear bomb and guided missiles. The Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, Great Britain, the United States of America and France have a proliferation of thermonuclear weapons. They are coming to a flashpoint and the final war could quite easily come out of this. I believe that the Moratorium, or whatever honourable senators opposite like to call it, showed that now is a time for peace, a time for withdrawal, a time for contemplation and a time to reconsider where man is headed. If man is heading towards the final war, it will bring about not only his own destruction but the destruction of the fabric of the earth's surface, which is within man's control at present. I believe that time is shorter than we think. We will be making this decision sooner than we think. We should not go on willy-nilly widening the war or thinking of entering a new country to go through the whole process of murdering and burning innocent people because one fellow has a particular ideology and we have to get rid of it. This is the method on which the Government works. Wherever an opposing ideology raises its head, the Government has to break the head even if it kills 9 innocent people9 civilians to get the one. The 9 are expendable. That is the attitude that we, as a Christian nation, are supporting in South East Asia. Whatever the enemy does and whatever the Nuremberg trials found in their final analyses the responsibility for the actions of a government fall back not only on the individual who has to make the decision but also on the men who directed such action. In the past judgment has been passed on those who directed such operations. 
If the war continues in the way in which it is going, it is my firm belief that the hopes of the world that, through the United Nations, some measure of compromise to stop this mad rush towards oblivion can be reached will be dashed. I believe that the more the war is expanded and the more examples we give of entering new countries, whatever the excuse may be, the closer comes that day of retribution for all of us. I hope that debates such as this will make Government senators and people outside the Parliament realise that all is not as bright as it looks. The Government is following a line of brute force because it has control temporarily of the military machine. It has tried all the subterfuges through its 20 years of government. It has used every ploy or trick to retain power. It has used fear always fear and the big lie. If such actions have been successful, the Government can crow about the result. The Government has followed a policy which, in my view, is a disastrous one for the future not only of Australia and South East Asia but of the rest of the world. Prior to our involvement in Vietnam and in the South East Asian conflict we held a position of esteem in the eyes of small countries and we helped them get around the table to thrash our their problems. Instead of having that position we have been reduced now to being one of the participants in one of the worst and one of the ugliest wars recorded in modern history. I believe that the sooner the Government answers this world-wide move, this great upsurge of dissent and protest that is increasing throughout the world, and realises before it is too late that it has been following the wrong path a destructive one from a psychological point of view the better it will be for mankind. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Civil Aviation. By way of preface, I remind him that one of his predecessors had considerable difficulty in persuading the Senate that the IPEC company, under the chairmanship of  Mr Gordon  Barton, should not have a licence to import aircraft to operate on intercapital air routes. Has the Minister seen a report in 'Rydges Business Journal' dealing with plans by the directors of the Jetair company, including the notorious Alexander Barton- 
Who is not related to Gordon Barton, to float a company depending on Government approval of the grant of a public transport licence, permission to operate intercapital routes and permission to import new Nord 262 aircraft? Has this company received any assurances or undertakings from the Minister? How would such a company operate while the present Airlines Agreement remains in force? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Civil Aviation, follows a previous question. Is the Minister aware that a recently floated company known as Jetair has acquired a number of DC3 aircraft and, in rather unusual circumstances, 2 Viscount aircraft? 
Could the Minister supply information as to whether these Viscount aircraft were purchased from the Commonwealth Department of Supply? If they were, does he know the conditions of sale? If he does, are the conditions of sale being fulfilled? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. In view of the arbitrary action of the United States authorities in banning the import of certain Australian beef, veal and mutton on technical grounds, the motive for which could be open to grave doubt, will the Government give consideration to refusing the import of United States automobiles, crude oil and other commodities in which there are technical faults, particularly the Fill? 
Has the Leader of the Government in the Senate seen a report attributed to  Dandridge  M. Colli of the General Electric Company's missile and space vehicle department in the United States of America who referred to a huge and powerful super rocket which could be exploded behind an asteroid as it orbited between planets and would hit the earth with the force of several million megaton type hydrogen bombs; or has he seen a report by W. H. Clark, a physicist and explosives expert of the Utah Research and Development Company of the United States of America, in which he speaks of a bomb  containing 1,000 tons of heavy water equipped with a nuclear detonator and a boron blanket? What measures has the Australian Government taken to inform the people of this country that such weapons of annihilation exist? What measures are being taken to protect the people of Australia against such weapons? 
I also wish to refer to airline agreements and recent developments in which the airlines, as the Minister mentioned, have under-estimated the need for equipment to deal with the ever-growing volume of air traffic. This is a very important matter to many people who make arrangements to travel by air from one point to another in the Commonwealth. They make business arrangements closely aligned with arrival and departure times of aircraft. Transport to and from airports is involved, together with many other factors in the lives of individuals who travel by air. In most other methods of transport one can make allowances for occasional variations in scheduled times, but it appears to .me that not only are the last minute alterations in aircraft schedules becoming more frequent, but also that the capacity of the staff of the various airlines to explain to the public what is happening has diminished. Stock phrases such as 'the exigencies of the service', or DCA requirements', or some such expression are used by way of explanation. But it boils down to the fact that there are not sufficient reserve aircraft. The debate this afternoon cannot have failed to impress upon the Minister the fact that something has to be done by the airlines to grapple with this problem. 
A company was floated in Sydney the other day and was able to obtain, by backdoor methods,  6  Viscount aircraft. 
Their deployment is  a  matter of policy for the airlines. I would  say  that there should be at least one reserve aircraft, which could be chartered by either airline, at the main central points, namely, Sydney, Melbourne and Adelaide. 
Yes. 
Perhaps; but what about the time that is lost by executives in business, the time that I lose on numerous occasions on which all the arrangements that have been made have to be cancelled at the last minute, and the inability of the staff itself to give a reason why the schedules have been altered? 
Another point is what are called the terms and conditions subject to which this ticket is issued to and accepted by the passenger on the back of the airline ticket. They are all onesided. The passenger has become a number on a computer. We have lost the great advantages that the Australian airlines, especially Trans-Australia Airlines, had in earlier years. Before TAA was set up after the Second World War we had 1 major airline, lt had a monopoly of air transport. Then TAA came into the field and provided strong competition. It had young people who were being discharged from the Services, including capable pilots who were coming out of the Royal Australian Air Force and men who wanted to make a success of this enterprise. The standards that were achieved at that time were absolutely phenomenal. People throughout the world remarked about the high standards that the Australian airlines had reached. 
-This is on the Department, of Civil Aviation. I am speaking about the standards that were achieved when these people came into the industry and injected competition into our airlines. But unfortunately it seems as though the Airlines Agreement has broken down that spirit of competition, particularly in TAA, because every time that airline reaches a point at which it has more than 50% of the traffic an arrangement is made under which the surplus is granted to the other airline in order to keep the 2 airlines round about stable all the time. So the incentive for TAA is being reduced. The overall picture is that this has resulted in the 2 airlines becoming very complacent about the service they render to the public. 
The first term and condition to which the passenger is subject is as follows: 
The Companies reserve the right without notice to substitute any aircraft or other means of transport either before the departure of the flight or at any intermediate airport . . . 
A person can make a booking and expect to go from one point to another in a comfortable aircraft, and then find that a Friendship is substituted for that aircraft 
No-one can tell me .that in this day and age a Friendship is a suitable substitute for a Boeing or a Douglas. A Friendship is third class transport. Yet the airlines are saying: 'The public be damned. That is all we have to give them: that is all they will get'. I believe that this is completely wrong as a policy. We are allowing the airlines to take that attitude. If they are unable to provide the extra aircraft about which  Senator Marriott  spoke, something should be done by the Government to see that the system of long range purchasing is reviewed in order to give members of the public the proper service to which they are entitled. 
 I suppose- 
I do not want to extend this into a general debate.  Senator Turnbull  has raised the point - and  Senator Cant  has supported it- that the debate on the appropriation Bills is the only time when we can really come to grips with these detailed matters of administration of government departments. Because the departments can shelter behind the protective skirts of their Ministers, we cannot get at them; so the Ministers have to face the barrage that comes at this time. 
I believe that this is our opportunity to tell the Minister for Civil Aviation that we, on behalf of the people who send us here, have to complain about the standard of the service given by the 2 airlines operating in Australia. The standard has decreased over the years, but particularly in recent times. The duplication of times of departure is the subject of criticism because if people happen to just miss an aircraft they find that the aircraft of both airlines have gone at the same time to the same destination. Many things like that annoy the passengers. They have no redress. They have paid their fare. AH the terms and conditions are onesided. They favour the airlines. The passenger is left there as though he is the last person to be considered. 
Speaking on the administration of the Department of Civil Aviation, we believe that this matter should be reviewed very closely and that the airlines should try to achieve, to maintain and even to excel the very high standards that existed before the Airlines Agreement came into operation, when there was some semblance of competition and when the airlines and the staff all along the line were trying to give the public service rather than to take the attitude: 'The public be damned. We are driving the coach and the other people will have to get on or stay off it as they see fit'. That attitude is not good enough. 
 I am speaking of both of the airlines. My speech is an objective one. It is directed at the situation generally. I do not attack any particular member of the staff. Members of the staff themselves will say- 
 Yes, I will say that they have lost interest through frustration. I have been advised on several occasions of the frustration that is caused when an airline repeatedly goes out and pioneers new areas and then, when it has built up custom in those areas, finds that instead of that resulting in additional figures and higher standards for it a share of that custom is handed over to its opponent. This happens after a period of time and it frustrates the personnel of that airline. This should be looked into in order to see whether this statement is true. I am raising the matter because people on the staff of the airlines have mentioned it to me at different times. I believe that this is a matter of great importance. I have taken this opportunity to raise it. 
I should like to raise a matter with the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton).  It follows on a matter that was raised yesterday by  Senator Cavanagh  relating to the practice of requesting that air transport be provided by aircraft of the Department of Civil Aviation instead of by the Royal Australian Air Force VIP Flight, as is the normal custom. The Minister, in reply to  Senator Cavanagh,  said that there had been several requests lately in special cases in which the Department of Civil Aviation had supplied air transport. Is the Department of Civil Aviation building up a flight of transport aircraft which would be supplementary to the RAAF VIP Flight? Is the number of requests being made for this special type of transport greater than can bc covered by the RAAF VIP Flight? Has the Minister any idea of the difference in cost involved in transporting passengers on flights by Department of Civil Aviation aircraft and on flights by VIP aircraft? 
Pilots employed by the Department receive a considerably higher salary range than do RAAF pilots. That could have a significant influence on the loss rale through resignation of RAAF pilots going to airlines. I have no doubt that the higher salary range in the Department of Civil Aviation would encourage pilots to leave the RAAF if the Department built up the practice of providing special transport to supplement the VIP Flight. Does this follow from the replies the Minister gave yesterday? ls this just a temporary expedient to provide transport on request or will the Department of Civil Aviation set up a separate section to provide VIP transport? 
I should like to get some information, if it is available, about Australian Capital Territory services under the Department of the Interior for which $ 1 60,000 is to be appropriated. Will the amount proposed to be expended under this Bill bring to some conclusion the plans for extending the water supply to provide for Canberra's future? The water supply for Canberra is a problem which has developed down through the years. It has been a problem to have plans far enough in advance to make certain that the reservoirs supplying one of the most rapidly growing cities in the Commonwealth is assured of a future supply of water. I should like to know whether this proposed expenditure will be devoted to rinding additional sources of supply outside the Australian Capital Territory, whether other supplies are being developed and whether or not any finality has been reached with regard to long range plans for the future supply of water. 
I ask the Minister a question concerning a patient who is referred to an ophthalmologist by a general practitioner for specialist treatment for the eyes. If the specialist treated the eye condition and suggested to the general practitioner who referred the patient that the patient needed spectacles, would this prevent the patient from receiving the full medical benefit? Spectacles were not provided. An optometrist was not consulted. The ophthalmologist suggested to the referring general practitioner that the patient needed spectacles. Would that prevent the specialist from receiving his fee and the patient from receiving the Government benefit? 

 Senator Dame ANNABELLE RANKIN (Queensland - Minister for Housing) [3.24] - I understand that the ophthalmologist himself would have to prescribe the spectacles before the Commonwealth benefit would not be paid. 
I am not going to delay the passage of the Bill. However, I wish to express the view I hold that ophthalmologists are quite entitled to put up a case to the Parliament for the inclusion of their services in this legislation. I have been impressed by the strength and the justice of their case. I believe that the amendment which has been moved on behalf of the Opposition covers the case which the ophthalmologists have put up. I am most strongly in favour of patients having the advantage of receiving specialist treatment, which they can receive after being referred to an ophthalmologist by a general practitioner. I believe that patients are entitled to have their eyes thoroughly examined. 
If, as a result of his investigation of a patient's eye condition the ophthalmologist with his skill and wisdom determines that the eye condition is such that it is necessary to prescribe spectacles, it is only half-baking the provisions of the national health scheme not to include a provision for a payment by the Commonwealth of the cost of the service provided by the ophthalmologist. I am unable to understand how any person could support the passage of legislation through this Parliament which does not include such a provision. It is an injustice. It is an injustice to not only the patient but also the ophthalmologist. In effect, an ophthalmologist is making a great mistake by treating the patient so thoroughly that, among other things, he has to prescribe spectacles. I believe that there is an irrefutable case for the adoption of the Opposition's amendment. 
People who find themselves in this situation are in need of assistance. This should be the prime consideration of the legislation. The Parliament should make provision for them to be able to receive treatment at the highest level by a specialist. It is not a matter of providing spectacles for these patients. Once the prescription has been written it is up to the patient to decide whether he will obtain spectacles. A patient does not have to obtain spectacles although they have been prescribed by an ophthalmologist, but it would be better for his health and comfort to do so. Regardless of the state of a person's eyes, if an ophthalmologist prescribes glasses he should be paid the proper fee for doing so.  I  think that the chamber should put the amendment to a vote without further delay.  I  hope that  Senator Young  will support his words by taking action. He could do so by voting in support of the Opposition's amendment. 
The Government's new proposed section 9b states: 9b. The Minister may provide, or arrange for the provision of, vaccine for the purpose of immunising persons against any of the following diseases: 
poliomyelitis; 
measles; and 
rubella. 
I ask the Minister for Housing  (Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin),  who in this chamber represents the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes),  whether the Government will, when this legislation is being reviewed, include what I believe was omitted on this occasion through an oversight. I believe small-pox should be included as one of the diseases against which a person may be immunised. With communications the way they are today and with rapid transport, particularly from Indonesia, where there is practically a continuous epidemic of smallpox, I had my children vaccinated or immunised against small-pox because I felt that at any time Australia could be subjected to an outbreak of that disease. I think provision should be made in this legislation for an Australian wide campaign to persuade people of the possible dangers not only of small-pox but also of some of these other exotic diseases which are so close to Australia because of the daily- 
That is true, why name them? 
Yes, eliminate all the names and have immunisation against disease. The Government has specified measles and rubella. 
I do not know whether I wish to move an amendment but I would like the Minister to consult with her advisers as to the efficacy of leaving out the disease names, and of having a general campaign throughout Australia to advise people of the possibility of a sudden outbreak of some of these diseases which come from countries such as India, Pakistan, Indonesia, and other parts of South East Asia because of the growing contact between those countries and Australia. The Australian people are vulnerable to disease because they have not been exposed to massive outbreaks of such diseases as cholera, small-pox and the like. I believe provision should be made in a Bill such as this for a wider scope of immunisation to be provided under the health scheme. I would like to hear the Minister's views on this matter. 
I should like to revert to the definition of 'oral surgeon', lt is stated specifically in the Minister's second reading speech that oral surgeons should have recognition, yet in the definitions and in the Bill that aspect is not mentioned. The Bill speaks of dental practitioners and legally qualified dentists. The Minister should be able to assure the Committee that legally qualified dentists, dental practitioners, orthodontists and oral surgeons are one and the same person for purposes of recognition. If the Government cannot make that definition clearly, the Committee is being misled. In addition it seems that the Government is exhibiting an obsession against certain parts of the human anatomy - teeth, eyes, ears, bones and muscles. The man who looks after anything to do with the eyes is in a grey area and we are told to exclude him. He is beyond the pale even though he may be an ophthalmologist, a very highly qualified medical graduate. 
Of great importance. The ayes had it on a couple of occasions tonight. The teeth are also very important. Where will you draw the line of demarcation if a man has a fractured jaw and an orthodontist or an oral surgeon or a dental practitioner or a legally qualified dentist has to delineate between the extraction of teeth from a fractured jaw and making repairs to a fractured jaw? We have come up against other problems too. The point is that the Government is backing away from this important issue, lt docs not want to recognise the highly qualified dentist or the ophthalmologist or the physiotherapist or the chiropractor. We want the Government, to realise that these are medical services. They are requirements that should be provided for in any national health legislation. 
In the second reading speech the Minister referred to an oral surgeon and then forgot him. It sounds all right in a second reading speech, but in the Bill on which posterity and the Department have to operate we have regard only to legally qualified dentists or dental practitioners operating in a theatre of an approved hospital. The whole thing is so restrictive that I believe it needs a lot more definition and widening so that the Committee will know what the Minister, the Government and the Bill mean with regard to services given by highly qualified people. 
I rise for the purpose of allowing  Senator McClelland  to continue his remarks on the proposed amendment. 

 Senator MCCLELLAND (New Smith Wales) (4.23)- I thank the Senate for its indulgence. The tables to which 1 have referred relating to hospital insurance are set out on page 28 of the Wedgwood Committee's report. In order to cover himself for a refund of the public ward charge, which in New South Wales is of the order of SIO a day. the family weekly contribution would be 70c which returns a total benefit of $10.40. He paying one-third of that would have to pay his medical fee plus one-third of 70c, namely 24c, which means that be would have to pay 49c a week whereas a man earning between $45.50 and $48.50 would have to pay twice as much, namely of the order of 98c to $1 a week. We rhetorically ask: How are people expected to live on such an income and still find such a sum each week for insurance purposes? Il is beyond our comprehension. If a man in such an income bracket has as dependants a wife and 6 children he still would have to pay $1 a week for medical and hospital insurance, and at the same time he would be obliged to bridge the gap between the common fee specified and the refund received. Of course, if he visited a doctor who was not adhering to the common fee he would have to pay more than the excess appearing in the Schedules to the Bill. 
We say that the present situation is fraught with anomalies. Whilst this Bill is not our cup of tea, nonetheless we believe that the amendments we have proposed will substantially reduce the intolerable burden imposed on low income earners. We say that a man earning the minimum wage of $42.50 a week or less should receive the Commonwealth benefit, the fund benefit and the excess specified in the Schedules. We suggest that people covered by the Class B determination should be paid the Commonwealth benefit and the fund benefit plus two-thirds of any specified excess detailed in the Schedules. As to Class C, we say that people in that category should receive the Commonwealth benefit and the fund benefit plus one-third of any specified excess detailed in the Schedules. 
We believe that the amendments we propose will substantially assist low income earners in the 3 categories that have been decided upon by the Government. If accepted, they will ameliorate the hardships that are being imposed on a great number of low income earners. We say that it is in the interests of the Australian community that these people be protected and I have therefore moved the amendments proposed by the Opposition. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Does the Minister recall that recently I drew attention to a thermonuclear weapon of such magnitude that it could cause tidal waves or earthquakes? In view of the after effects of 2 separate nuclear testings by the French Government in the Pacific, resulting in the massive tragedy of earthquakes in South America, will the Australian Government launch a strong protest to the United Nations Security Council against further testing of nuclear weapons and press for the initiation of an inquiry in depth into the relationship between nuclear testing and earthquakes? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. In view of  President  Nixon's announcement that 50,000 United States troops will be withdrawn from South Vietnam by 15th October can the Government now take this Parliament and the people of Australia into its confidence and tell us when Australian troops will be withdrawn from this futile and costly conflict? 
My question, which  is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate, follows along the lines of the one asked by  Senator Murphy.  I ask the Minister whether he is aware of widespread criticism of the grossly inadequate contribution of $15,000 by the Commonwealth Government for the relief of the tragic distress in earthquake-stricken Peru. Will he, on behalf of the people of Australia, make plans to fly volunteer doctors and nurses as well as medical supplies, blankets, clothing and children's food into Peru? Is the Government thoroughly acquainted with the massive destruction that has taken place there and the call to humanity to assist the people there in their hour of need? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Health whether she recalls the recent desperation which prompted nurses to demonstrate as a body to the Prime Minister here at 
Parliament House? Can she confirm the announcement made over the radio that nurses in repatriation hospitals and in the Australian Capital Territory are to have their claims for improved terms and conditions of employment approved? If so, can the Minister say what are the actual improvements granted? 
Has the Leader of the Government in the Senate seen a statement by  Mr Averell  Hardman, former chief United States negotiator at the Paris talks, to the effect that the Nixon Administration's Vietnamisation policy was a programme for the perpetuation of the war and that the concept was dependent on an unpopular and unrepresentative government in Saigon? Does not the Minister agree with Mt Averell Harriman that the way to save lives is to get them out of combat by putting an end to the fighting in Vietnam instead of expanding or prolonging it? 
The honourable senator was the last  speaker  when this matter last came  before  the Senate and I thought he was one  of  the leaders of the rebels who said that this anomaly between the House of Representatives and the Senate should be altered. I admired his stand because it is very rarely that we see senators on the Government side bucking the machine. We are now discussing a matter of importance to individual senators but here we have this great anomaly where the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Willesee)  and the  deputy  leader on the Government side - if there was one - in the Senate do not receive proper facilities and amenities. There has not been provision made for a  deputy  leader on the Government side of the Senate. I would like to find out who is the  deputy  leader on the Government side of the Senate. 
No, there is not one al all. 
Of course there should be one. The Government has overworked ils Leader, a leader who has given everything he has to the nation. He could not leave the place  for  5 minutes because there is no provision made for an official deputy, lt is a ridiculous situation for the Government not to have a deputy leader. Not only should the Government have u deputy leader, but he should be provided with the facilities and amenities which would be provided in any other democratic parliament in the world. 
There is one thing certain,  Senator Sir Magnus,  and that is that you would never fill the position. But I do not want to enter a debate on that level. The Opposition has a  Deputy  Leader who is practically unrecognised. The arrangements that are made for his electorate allowance and for the facilities in his office in his own State are negligible. I believe that this is a matter that the Senate should look to. For too long. I believe, the Senate has been playing second fiddle and it is time that it had a look into these matters. I look to people like  Senator Greenwood, Senator Wright  - one of the great protagonists of the Senate -  Senator  Cotton  and others who should sustain the very strong belief of the people of Australia that the Senate has a very great role to perform in the democratic government of this country. This difference between the 2 Houses should be closed as rapidly as possible, and for such a parsimonious gesture as is being made in this legislation- 
We should. As a matter of fact, if this Senate had any intestinal fortitude it would be knocking back this legislation because it is only the smallest tribute to try to pacify what was previously a strong protest against this anomaly. Here we find the Government making all this great hoo-hah about what it is doing to change the electorates in- the House of Representatives and making the parsimonious concession of $2 a week to keep the senators quiet. Shame on the senators for allowing this legislation to go through without putting up a strong case to bring about equality of the Houses that 1 believe the Senate justifiably deserves. 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry inform me whether any further consultation between the Australian authorities and the United Stales authorities has been held at to the reasons advanced by the United States administration for banning the importation of Australian mutton into the United States? Is it not a reflection on Commonwealth and State health authorities that a charge of uncleanliness is made against a section of our food producing industry? What steps are being taken by the Commonwealth health authorities to investigate the charge of uncleanliness in mutton for home consumption? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry and follows along the lines of previous questions asked by  Senator Prowse  and  Senator Young.  Is the Minister aware that caseaus lymph adenitis, the organism that the United States authorities complained about, .has been known to be present in Australian mutton for 30 years and has not been considered harmful to humans, but is now classified as harmful to the American consumer? Is it to be taken that the presence of this organism in Australian mutton will now debar our mutton from domestic markets as well as other markets of the world? Would the Minister have an investigation made as to whether this damaging image being created by the United States authorities is not the result of interested United States meat lobbyists seeking protection for their own products? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate as the representative of the Treasurer. Have any measures been taken by the Commonwealth Treasury to meet the growth of hire purchase company repossessions which will be the sequel of the Government's policy of increasing bank interest charges to such a high level? Also will the Minister consult the Treasurer with a view to introducing a moratorium on repossessions and bankruptcy during the period of the current economic squeeze? 
Has the Leader of the Government in the Senate seen a statement by the National Appeals Director of Austcare that an emergency appeal has been launched to assist the 200,000 victims of the earthquakes in Peru and his reference to the miseries and privations with the Peruvian winter at its height? As immediate donations to buy blankets, tents and food are being asked for, will the Government give urgent consideration to the making of a Commonwealth contribution to the Austcare appeal? 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior because I understand that this matter would be handled by the Department of the Interior through the Public Service Board. Is the Minister fully conversant with the crisis that exists in the Canberra Community Hospital where unprecedented action has been taken by nurses to get home to a complacent community and a stubborn Government the message concerning their conditions of service and the recognition of their status and wage justice? Has the Government any explanation to make to the nation as to why it has allowed this situation to assume crisis proportions? What immediate action does the Government propose to resolve the impasse? 
The Australian Labor Party supports the marginal dairy farms reconstruction scheme provided for in the measure because it brings some glimmer of relief for a certain section of the dairy industry. But I say at the outset that the Opposition criticises many aspects of the scheme. The Australian Country Party, to which  Senator Webster,  who has just resumed his seat, belongs, can be blamed for the situation this industry is facing today. 
Well, for 10 years the Australian Country Party has been influencing the Government, and the honourable senator has been acting as a very smooth and very polished advocate for the policy of vacillation. He has been virtually selling bis own industry down the drain. He said that not one dairy product had been overproduced until the last year or so. Later I will quote in that regard some words of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony).  The dairy industry has had a direct hand-out of S27m plus the equivalent of about $30m in indirect subsidies through home price support schemes for butter and the very generous $17m a year devaluation compensation which is continuing 3 years after sterling was devalued. Austraiian dairy farmers are guaranteed 34c per lb average return on exports. 
lt is costing the consumer- 
You have had your say. I am saying that the Australian consumer has to pay this amount. 
Yes. He has to subsidise the whole industry. It is a subsidised industry. The Minister for Primary Industry, who is a member of another place is reported to have said: 
The Commonwealth Equalisation Committee, which gives us a forecast of the new year so we can determine what the interim payment will be, has told us we must start thinking in terms of 230,000 tons, and if this happens it will mean at the end of the year 1970-71 we will have a surplus of 20,000 tons of butter. 
 It is the year we are approaching now. 1970-71. This is the important point. I will touch on it in a moment. The Minister is reported to have said: 
This is a crazy situation and 1 do not think a Government can be expected to continue to guarantee an underwriting of 34c when one calculates what the Government's commitment would be under these circumstances. 
The report continues: 

 Mr Anthony claimed that if the 34c was maintained' in 1970-71 then an additional S20m would be required in excess of the bounty. 
I remind  Senator Webster  that the Minister said in his second reading speech thai the Bill will give effect to the Government's plan to make available S25m over a period of 4 years which means that an amount of S6.25ra a year will have to be divided among the various States. No provision is made here as to what proportion the various States will receive. 
Yes, but in his second reading speech the Minister said: 
The industry's problems are aggravated by the fact that there are concentrations of low income producers in certain dairying regions, notably in south-eastern Queensland, northern New South Wales and the south-west of Western Australia, and to a lesser extent, in the south-east of South Australia. There is thus a regional problem as well as an industrial problem. 

 Senator Webster has not mentioned this problem at all, because he comes from Victoria, and the Victorian Branch of the Australian Country Party and the Leader of the Country Party  (Mr McEwen)  in my view have exercised an undue influence on Government policy. This has resulted in this long period of vacillation in implementing a scheme similar to the McCarthy scheme for the industry. What has actually happened over this period of time is that inefficient farmers have been encouraged to stay in the industry, and they, and the industry generally, have been encouraged to expand production. This is a very serious indictment of any political party which exercises the balance of power in a Government as the Country Party does. For 10 years it has allowed this situation to exist, knowing the position in Victoria and knowing that, even up to this last year, new blocks at Hytesbury were being made available for dairying. 
 I am certainly blaming the Country Party for this situation being acceptable to any Government and its policy. The Australian Labor Party believes that not only has the Government been completely unaware of the consequences of encouraging the inefficient to stay and produce, but also it is expanding the amount of dairy land which is available for production. There are some very serious aspects of this scheme of which I think we should remind ourselves. 
Most of them are outlined in the second reading speech of the Minister. When the world situation in dairying shows, as he says an overwhelming payment of production surpluses, how are we to justify the telescoping of farms and the introduction of  mors  efficient methods of production and to follow these things in turn- 
 A proportion of them must be inefficient, otherwise we would not be implementing the scheme. It means that 40% or so of the industry can bc classified as inefficient because of the existence of smaller units. From what I can gather, amongst dairy farmers 20 lactating cows are not classified as a unit; there have to be 70 or 80 cows for a profitable proposition with the cost of production and the other factors associated with the industry in this day and age. Butter stocks in 10 major producing countries have risen for the fifth year in succession. This is a situation to which we have to face up, because our main exports have been to the European market and particularly the British market. The European Economic Community alone has a butter surplus of around 300,000 tons or little short of half the world's annual trade in butter. The Six have accumulated this surplus through beggar-my-neighbour policies, such as high export subsidies, despite continued representations by Australia and other countries for moderation. 
We are preparing to subsidise the industry lo the extent of S25m over 4 years and to telescope the inefficient farms. I belive that if wc introduce a policy such as this those people who are encouraged to leave the land should realise their equity to transfer into some other form of employment. I also believe there should be some method of rehabilitation of the displaced persons. There should be either some retraining scheme or some payment for redundancy, such as occurs in other industries on the insistence of the trade union movement. This type of thing could quite well apply to the dairy industry. I believe that in justice such a provision should be included in the overall plan. What we are doing is putting a slicking plaster over an infected wound, so to speak. On the one hand the industry is really being encouraged to use all the modern techniques, all the latest developments in dairy production and on the other hand we are finding that our capacity to export to our traditional customers is declining. This has a cumulative effect which will rebound very strongly against us and will impose a tremendous burden on the consumer in Australia. 
The only other point to which I draw attention is the open ended policy that is inherent. We are trying to make the whole of the industry more efficient. By telescoping the inefficient properties with bigger dairying properies and increasing the production from the previously inefficient area by the use of more efficient equipment, better management and the like, we will have surpluses with which we cannot cope. Immediately facing the industry is a possibility, if not a certainly, of a quota system in which the amount of production per farm will have to be very carefully watched and, in my view, policed. These are consequences of the plan thai we have before us tonight. 
The whole of our economy today is patched up. lt is an economy of expediency and we are finding more and more that it is running into dead ends. Our cost structure is forcing up our prices. We arc automatically excluding ourselves from our traditional markets. On the other hand, wc have a complete inability to cope wilh the terrible situation in which there is poverty amidst plenty. We have shares in milk processing factories in Manila, Thailand and Indonesia, and I understand that wc have plans for extending this policy of assistance into other parts of South East Asia. We can only hope that an expansion of this policy will alleviate the pressure which will inevitably come onto the dairying industry in Australia. The overall purpose of the Bill, which is an attempt to improvise as a temporary measure to relieve the pressure on the inefficient farmer and to get him off the land or into some other form of production or employment is commendable, but it will create many more difficulties. 1 should like to mention the subject raised by  Senator Webster  who referred to the control and production of cooking margarine. The dairying industry has applied pressure to the margarine industry, which has every right to expand production and to promote its product. The butter factories have been very afraid of increased sales of margarine and particularly of coloured or cooking margarine. Even the cooking margarine is being promoted very strongly. Yet in this situation the price of butter was increased last year by 4c per lb. It is difficult to explain how an industry can continue to increase the price of its commodity and yet be able to put enough pressure on State governments to induce them to prohibit the promotion of margarine. 1 believe that not only is this an injustice to a certain section of the community but also it is only a makeshift measure. Some doctors recommend the use of margarine because of certain ingredients in it and if people wish to purchase margarine they should be able to do so. There should not be restrictions on the sale of margarine in whichever form it is presented. The points that I have mentioned are among the complications that 1 see arising from this whole plan. 
The dairying industry has wailed a long time for this plan to come lo fruition. We believe that it will provide some temporary respite. 1 do not know whether other circumstances will arise to give further relief to the dairying industry, but so far as I can see the plan has been delayed for so long that the industry has been built on a false foundation for a number of years when it was inevitable that a complete reorganisation of this type had to take place. I can only hope that the relief that is to be given will be of some help, but 1 cannot see how $6.25m a year will alford much relief. At present prices of land there will be some very worrying times for some people who may try to pay off their mortgages through the distribution of $6. 25m a year over 4 years making a total of J25m. We have an amendment to move later on. Whether this legislation can bring the relief to the industry that the Country Party is telling the farmers it will, we believe the farmers have been let down very badly by the Government's policy over the last 10 years or more. Now their own chickens are coming home to roost. 
I am talking about the Country Party chickens that are coming home to roost. I started off laying the blame on the Government for this vacillation and the false foundations on which the industry has been built over the last 10 years or so. lt was inevitable that the coming of the European Economic Community, the restriction of other markets and our rising costs in this country would have been against the interests of the dairy man. For that reason the people of Australia should know that they will be called on to subsidise this industry continuously and that the whole cost structure of the industry is such that there will be a growing charge on the consumer in this country. A commodity such as dairy produce is essential, particularly for children, and the family man will be asked to pay more not only in prices but also in taxation. All the time the Government's policy of imposing these extra charges to pay for the subsidy is increasing the cost of living and so we have a vicious cycle in the community today. It is a worrying situation for everyone. 
I am sure the Government would not admit that it has itself to blame. If this country had taken a reasonable path in the early days after the last World War and had been prepared to have a measure of control of wages and prices we would have been far ahead of any other country wilh our rich natural resources and we would have been able to make the best use of the gifts this country has. Instead of that we are nol only behind many other parts of the world but the struggle we will have to maintain our standard of living will be greater, particularly for those sections of the community involved in primary production. The exchange rate has been to the farmers' advantage. Many other attempts, such as subsidisation over the years have been made to bolster the primary industries. As  Senator Lillico  mentioned eather, the wool people are realising their difficulties. We are finding that the man on the land is facing a future of very great uncertainty. All I can hope is that this allocation of S25m will in some way give a bit of hope to the dairying industry. Those honest farmers work hard and have a 7 days a week job. Keeping a dairy farm going is a very exacting task and I hope that this measure will give them the degree of support they deserve. The Government's policy has been imposed on them and has been to their great disadvantage. 
Having outlined the Opposition's case during the course of the second reading debate against the retention of Schedule 13 and in view of the fact that there is a time element in the debate tonight, I formally move: 
That the House of Representatives be requested to leave out Schedule 13. 
Question put: 
That the House of Representatives be requested to leave outthe Thirteenth Schedule. 
 My question is directed to the Minister for Air. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to an article in today's 'Australian' regarding a statement by the Secretary of Defence in the United States of America,  Mr Laird,  to the effect that he was not committed to buying another 40 Fill aircraft and a statement by  Senator Charles  Percy of the United States in which he described the FI 1 1 project as a disaster aud said that the money involved should not be added as another strain on the economy? In view of the fact that an evaluation team was set up by the Commonwealth Government to make a report to the Cabinet, will the Minister draw its attention to these statements before preparation of its report? 
The Customs Tariff Bill covers a wide range of items in which changes have been made. This measure validates those changes. The changes were made over a period of several months last year and earlier this year. To the extent that this Bill validates these changes we on this side of the chamber have no opposition to it. There is a section of this legislation about which we are critical. I refer to the Thirteenth Schedule, which is one of the 14 schedules that comprise this Bill. The amendments that are proposed by the legislation follow recommendations contained in reports of the Tariff Board and Special Advisory Authority. As 1 have said, the Tariff Board has recommended alterations in a number of items. The First Schedule deals with floor and wall coverings, gloves and mittens and secateurs. The Second Schedule deals with the admission of new commodities agreed to by the Australian and New Zealand Governments. The Third Schedule deals with cherries preserved in sugar, crystallised or glazed cherries. In the Fourth Schedule the tariff is removed from urea imported for use as fertiliser. The Fifth Schedule implements the report of the Tariff Board on slitting machines and also on wooden articles and cutlery forks and spoons. The Sixth Schedule implements a report on metal working machine tools. This is a Special Advisory Authority's recommendation which deals with general purpose lathes. 
The Seventh Schedule implements Tariff Board reports on such diversified things as almonds, compressed gas cylinders, flexible metal tubing, piping and transmission shafts, taxi meters, time switches, movements and parts and the like. We in the broad support these recommendations of the Tariff Board. But in the Thirteenth Schedule the Board has recommended a substantial reduction in the tariffs of a very important industry. I will refer to this in depth in a few moments. The policy of the Government relating to tariffs has presented a great challenge to the whole economy of this country. The Tariff Board has examined the position as it exists on evidence placed before it. 
I would like to refer to the Tariff Board's report on man-made fibres and yarn, which is the item that we wish the Government to review. It is the Opposition's intention to move in the Committee stage that the whole of the Thirteenth Schedule be omitted. The report of the Tariff Board on man-made fibres and yarns, dated 18th December 1969, contains a table which shows that for the year 1967-68 there was an estimated Australian demand for 105 million lb of cellulosic - acetate and viscose - and non-cellulosic material. The Board pointed out that the Australian supply is produced by 2 companies which have a combined capacity of 63 million lb per annum. Therefore, at the time of this report there was a considerable leeway to be made up before the Australian industry could meet local demand. The capacity here was in the hands of 2 main companies. The first company was Courtaulds (Aust.) Ltd, which is controlled by a British company. It has been producing acetate continuous filament apparel yarn since 1953 and also high tenacity yarn and tyre cord fabric since 1954. This company supplies most of the Australian demand for these products but does not produce viscose apparel yarn or cellulosic staple fibres. The second company is Fibremakers Ltd, which is a wholly owned subsidiary of Imperial Chemical Industries of Australia and New Zealand Limited which is controlled by Imperial Chemical Industries. This company has been producing nylon 66 since 1958 and polyester since 1964. Its range of production of both fibres includes staple fibre, tow and continuous filament yarn for apparel and industrial purposes. The local industry has been supplying a high proportion of the growing market for nylon and polyester fibres and yarns. 
The conditions of supply from overseas is a matter of great importance because world demand and supply of man-made fibres has changed dramatically over the period from 1958 to 1968 which is covered by this Tariff Board report. The report brings into very sharp relief the problem that the wool industry has in presenting Australian natural fibres and competing with the great and growing demand and supply of synthetic fibres. Table 4 of the Tariff Board's report on man-made fibres and yarns, which is contained on page 9, shows that in 1958 the production of manmade fibres was 5,938 million lb. This was 19.4% of all fibres. The total amount of man-made fibres increased in 1968 to 16,066 million lb, which was 35.9% of the total of textile fibres. The table also shows that the total amount of other fibres, which is made up of our wool, cotton and other natural fibres, could increase only from 24,594 million lb in 1958 to 28,665 million lb in 1968. World production of man-made fibres has increased from 5,000 million lb to 16,000 million lb, while production of natural fibres has increased from 24,000 million lb to 28,000 million lb. Those figures indicate the enormous increase in the production of synthetic fibres. 
The man-made fibre industry put forward quite a strong case to the Tariff Board. The producers referred to their cost disadvantages compared with overseas competitors and the factors contributing to them. They said that generally Australian costs of labour, installations, power and services are higher than those of overseas competitors. They said that the smaller size of the Australian market in comparison with domestic markets in the principal sources of competition also tends to result in higher unit overhead costs for Australian manufacturers. Reference is made in the report to the economic worth and efficiency of the industry and to the measures that have been taken by one firm, Fibremakers Ltd, to improve productivity. This was given as evidence of improvement in efficiency since the previous inquiry. Fibremakers claimed that the efficiency of its operations compared more than favourably with that of its parent company and with Austraiian manufacturing industry generally. 
The Board had requested information on the economic worth of the industry. Both Courtaulds (Aust.) Ltd and Fibremakers gave evidence relating to the cost and benefits of protection. They said that the importance of the Australian synthetic fibre industry was shown by the fact that it produces essential raw materials used in the manufacture of textiles for apparel and in domestic, defence and industrial applications: it employs about 3,000 persons and pays almost $10m annually in salaries and wages; it uses fixed assets, that is. land buildings, plant and machinery valued in 1967 at $30m and working capital amounting to $20m: its total value of output was approaching $45m in 1967; its value of production, that is, value added in the process of manufacture per employee is exceptionally high in comparison with other sectors of manufacturing industry - in the case of one manufacturer it exceeded $10,000 per employee; it is an important part of the Australian industrial complex as it is an outlet for many other sectors of Australian industry - Fibremakers alone purchased $6m of local goods and services; and it provides benefits to using industries by way of technical and commercial assistance. lt can be seen now that the synthetic fibre industry is of great and growing importance to Australia, lt can be classified as one of the test cases to be used in determining the whole of our tariff policy. During the course of his remarks in another place, the honourable member for '..alor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  referred to the importance of the industry and outlined the Opposition's attitude to it. He said that the Australian Labor Party stood for a number of principles in this matter. He continued: 
The first is that we wit] guarantee protection to Australian industries that are efficient and economic. The second is that we do nol consider that protection can be solved by abstract theories of free trade or protection that often assume conditions of competition thai do not and never have existed in real life. Next, we believe that a correct decision can be made about protection only if we know the facts. We do not know the facts now, as the Tariff Board is noi equipped to ascertain them. 
During the course of a debate that ranged over a very wide field in another place the point was stressed that although the Tariff 
Board had done a magnificent job over the years, it has not available to it the physical capacity to examine all the factors associated with the effect of tariffs and duties on imports in the balancing up of our economy. The facilities of computerisation and automation should be made available to the Tariff Board when it is involved in an inquiry. In that way it coul'd work out closer to reality the degrees of protection or increases or decreases in tariff that should be imposed. 
I should like to refer to the definition of an economic and efficient industry which is contained in the report of the Committee of Economic inquiry - commonly referred to as the Vernon Committee. At page 372, paragraph 14.1.1, it is stated: 
The term "efficient', when used in the context of the Tariff, normally refers lo technical efficiency. lt cannot be  distinguished  clearly from  questions  of economic efficiency, although there ure significant differences between the two concepts. An uneconomic industry may be as efficient in a technical sense as an economic one. The latter may enjoy marker opportunities and economies of scale nol available to the former. Frequently, technical efficiency is judged in terms of maximising output in relation to a given input (output per man-hour would be an example) . . . 
That definition introduces a new concept of differentiating between economic efficiency and technical efficiency, lt is not the Tariff Board's purpose or responsibility lo dictate economic policy to any government. Its job is to make recommendations to government. But traditionally the Tariff Board has marshalled all the information that has been available from the various industries and it has made certain recommendations on that basis. It is the Opposition's view that this approach has to be improved and that the complexities of tariff have to be examined in greater depth. 
The Vernon Committee's report referred to the role of the tariff in Australian economic growth. I think that the Senate should take note of the importance that has been attached to this section of the report relating to the tariff. Amongst other things it states: 
We gave some attention to particular aspects of tariff-making: The complexity of the Tariff Schedule, the scope for anticipatory duties, the nature of existing international obligations and, nut least important, the problems created by the attitude, somewhat too prevalent, that once an industry exists it should receive all the protection it needs. We suggest thai the Board should feel  free to recommend that structural adjustments be undertaken when an industry has ceased to be, or shows no promise of becoming, economic and efficient. We strongly suggested that references to the Board should be more frequently in terms which enable it to examine entire industries. We believe that a more rational tariff structure can be evolved in this way because it affords the Board and the industry an opportunity to devise a system more conducive to economic and efficient growth. 
This recommendation suggests a completely new approach to the activities of the Tariff Board and its traditional practice of recommending to the Government the imposition of or a reduction in tariffs.  1  have taken particular notice of the remarks which were made in the other place by the honourable member for Lalor, who said that without effective tariffs we would have little secondary industry in this country. Similarly, without effective subsidies we would have many thousand fewer farmers in Australia. As a matter of fact, there would be very few people in Australia. Australia's tariff policy over the years has been a matter of great concern.  1  recall the great battles which were fought between advocates of free trade and of protectionism. Australia is relatively distant from the larger countries of Europe in which industrial development occurred so much earlier and more quickly. These countries have the capacity to produce in large quantities. We have had to provide for the future by protecting our infant industries. We are now reaching the stage where a review has to be made of the level of protection given. In Australia an industrial structure has been built up which is changing continuously. 
Honourable senators on this side of the House believe that the tariff reductions proposed in the Thirteenth Schedule are below the recommendations which were made as a bench mark. The reductions are from 10% to 20%. This is a low tariff. It is a threat to an industry which, as I have previously pointed out, employs a considerable number of people and in which a large amount of capital is involved. This industry is a most important segment in our economy. The Opposition opposes the Thirteenth Schedule because a technically developed industry which has grown up under the protection of tariffs and which has taken its place in the economy should not be disturbed to the extent that it will be as a result of this Thirteenth Schedule. 
The comments which have been made regarding the splendid and conscientious work which has been done by the members of the Tariff Board over the years should impress people in this Parliament with the need for the imposition of tariff charges on imports in order to sustain our industry and level of employment. Australian industries which are efficient and economic must be guaranteed protection. The Opposition does not believe that the protection should be given on the basis of abstract theory, but that it should be worked out in such a way that it does not give undue advantage to Australian industries insofar as prices are concerned but gives every opportunity for Australian industries to expand. An inquiry has not been conducted in width and depth into Australian industries generally which are protected by tariffs. Our tariff policy has been a patchwork one in that, individual industries have had to make application to have their cases reviewed by the Tariff Board. ( believe that a complete review should be made of the incidence of tariffs throughout the whole of our manufacturing and other secondary industries. 
The Australian Labor Party will continue to support tariff making and also a widening of the field of reference of that activity. The Labor Party will assist the Tariff Board and equip it in such a way that it will be able to obtain the fullest possible knowledge of the facts which are necessary in the conducting of such a review. I formally give notice that in the Committee stage the Opposition proposes to request the House of Representatives to omit the Thirteenth Schedule from the Bill. If this move is unsuccessful the Opposition intends to vote against the Bill. 
Can the Leader of the Government in the Senate give an assurance that the questions remaining on the notice paper - about 150 of them - will be answered during the recess and the answers forwarded to senators? 
It is rather significant that we should be discussing this important clause of the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill at this time, in view of the association of 2 dates. We are discussing the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill 1970, and in 1907 the workers of Australia were committeed to a system of arbitration which, in their view, was something that would emancipate them from the feudal system of history. This Government has evolved a system of so-called arbitration which has continuously tried to hold back the course of industrial history and the history of the emancipation of the ordinary working man. 
Earlier tonight I heard  Senator Greenwood  talking about how the Communists would introduce all sorts of disruption into industry and how they would make attacks on the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. He was exaggerating the importance of the Communists in Australia. He was just giving expression in this Parliament to a fact of life, namely, that the workers of Australia have 'had' the arbitration system because it is weighted against them. The working man of today has the opportunities of compulsory education; he is able to get away from the continuous grind of poverty; he is able to see the light on the hill; he believes that after all is said and done he has certain basic rights and certain basic civil liberties; and he is looking for a place in the sun. The only asset that he has to sell - his labour - is constrained and circumscribed by the Court by the force of law and by the use of the old traditions under which the sledge hammer of penalties, fines and goal sentences is used against a man who is standing up only for his rights. 
The responsibility rests with us all. We have never watched carefully enough how this insidious instrument of the exploitation of man by man has been able to become part of the citadel of the system. That is what this Court is. It is a way of perpetuating the subservience of the working man. It is a way of imposing the hammer of law on the working man to the advantage of the profit seeker and the owner of the means of production, distribution and exchange. 
No, I am not ranting. I am telling the honourable senator a few facts of life. 
Well, we are discussing the powers of the Court. Normally a court would be described as a place of justice. This Conciliation and Arbitration Bill deals with a court. The powers of that Court, over the period of history that we know, have been built up on a different set of standards. Arbitration in terms of conditions of employment is not applicable to a court in the true sense of the word. Yet. the way in which the rights of the worker are defined to the Court is different from the way in which a criminal offender is treated. But this latter idea has pervaded the Commonwealth Industrial Court where the working man has been looked on as the enemy of the profit seeker. 
I am speaking to clause 15, lines 5 to 21, on page 5 of the Bill. 
1 am trying to remind the Committee of the situation lo which  Senator Greenwood  referred when he said that a move is under way to overthrow the arbitration system.  Senator Greenwood  was given full permission to develop this ridiculous attitude that the Communists were under the bed plotting to overthrow the arbitration system. History shows that the present Australian arbitration system is out of date. The rank and file people in the industrial movement today look on the arbitration system in the same way as the man with a Mercedes Benz looks on the horse and buggy, lt is old fashioned. 
 They have been emancipated too. Look at the ones we have appointed and raised out of the rank and file. Look at them all. Look at what they have done to the workers of this country, f will not apologise for some of the people we appointed. Some of those who have been appointed by the present Government have not even measured up those standards. Nevertheless. 1 wish to say a few words on the effect of the Court. 1 am referring again to the powers of the Court. 
A little while ago, someone said that we could yet see the greatest turmoil that this country has ever seen. Of course we will see the greatest turmoil that this country has ever seen because this very institution is a basic part of the unjust system which forces a man virtually to be a slave and to surrender the rights that he has to sell the only commodity that he can offer - his labour. If he fails to give up that right to work willingly he will have the club of the Court used against him. The penal provisions will be inflicted upon him and his right to sell his commodity will be taken away from him. Yet every other section of the community has the right to put its own price on its commodities. The working man is circumscribed by the provisions of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act and he is required to sell at the price at which the boss wants him to sell. If the worker does not comply he may be sent to gaol. That is the situation which we face today. 
The matter we are discussing tonight is very important. As long as we have people who will sit quietly by and watch the Government introduce more and more amendments, more and more circumscription and place more and more chains around the neck of the working man the better it will be for the owners of the means of production - the exploiters. They are the ones who have been able to get all the rights and privileges in relation to our iron ore, our bauxite and our oil. They have driven the wool grower into the ground. They have exploited the wheal growers. They have brought those in primary industry to their knees. The same people who exploit this country are using the Court and its powers to discipline the people who have the best commodity of all - the capacity to produce. With the inflation that exists today we find that the man who is contributing to industry is less and less able to buy the goods he -produces. The increases in interest rates, the inflation and all these other influences that are present today are decreasing the share of the cake the working man should get out of his production. 
The powers of the Court make it legal for the owners of industry to force the working man to receive less and less of what he produces, ls it any wonder that everyone on this side of the chamber wants lo oppose this clause? We know what its significance is. We know what its incidence is We know very well that honourable senators on the Government side are only too pleased to be able to smooth off a debate on such an important clause as this is. We are all aware of the facts relating to this great man O'Shea who was condemned by  Senator Greenwood.  O'Shea is a martyr of our time, whatever his politics are. The fact that he was of Irish descent does not mean a thing except that he had guts. He had the intestinal fortitude to go to gaol on behalf of his fellow men and to say: I am the symbol of dissent against these unjust laws which take from men the right to decent terms and conditions of employment. When a man has a commodity to sell he should be able to bargain about the value of that commodity.' 
What happened when O'Shea challenged the penal provisions? The Government ran to water; industry ran to water. Millions of people went out into the streets and said that this man O'Shea was right. Why should we be in bondage in 1969 and 1970? These people challenged the thin veneer of the system under which we live. The system is one of exploitation. It is a stock exchange system, an inflationary system and a vindictive system. The young people of this country are being prevented from obtaining an ideal to work towards because in our society today everything is so circumscribed that if a person does not conform he is held to be in contempt of court. Therefore, I say to you gentlemen of the Senate- 

 - Mr Temporary Chairman,I bow to your reminder of your control of this Committee but I have placed before you a point of view that all is not as quiet as it would seem on the surface. There is an undercurrent throughout the community and throughout the world and this undercurrent is against the views that have been expressed by  Senator Greenwood  tonight, that is, that there is a great plot to try to undermine the arbitration system. But the flow of history is such that this undercurrent will sweep away injustices and sweep away court authority if it is unjust and if it does not allow a man to be able to aspire towards the great principles of the expression of his desire to be able to improve his own position in the community, to widen his environment, to widen his beliefs and to be able to aspire towards a better life and a higher quality of life. These are the things that are in the soul of the ordinary working man and the powers of the court are the things that are restraining him.  Senator Gair  knows what I am saying is true. He is putting up a weak defence because he has run away from the things I have been talking about. I have supported our amendment with a belief that whatever the numbers here tonight in the long run - in the final analysis - this amendment that we have moved is basically in the interests of the working people of Australia. I hope that our amendment is carried. 
Motion (by  Senator Wright)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
 Has the Minister for Air seen the 'Australian' of 17th August 1970 in which the Government's policy on flying pay and conditions of service in the Royal Australian Air Force and in the other armed forces comes under strong criticism from the Returned Services League and others? In view of the action of 200 members of the Navy who, according to the Minister for Defence,  Mr Malcolm  Fraser, have waited too long already for pay adjustments, can the Minister inform the Senate when adjustments will be made, acknowledging the principle that the RAAF air crew salaries should be adjusted to match movements in the civil aviation industry? Will the Minister make an early statement to the Senate with a view to propping up what is known as the sagging morale in the Services and to stem the flow of officer resignations which is plaguing all 3 Services? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. In view of the serious dislocation facing the Tasmanian economy as a result of the increase of 12^% in freight rates by all shipping lines trading to and from Tasmania, the inevitable impact on the cost of exporting primary products from Tasmania to the mainland and the increase in the cost of living to consumers in that Slate, will the Minister consult with the Treasurer with a view to giving urgent consideration to the granting of a special freight subsidy to Tasmania until some meaningful solution can be found to allay the deep concern of all Tasmanians over this steep freight increase? 
asked the Minister  representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
In view of  President  Nixon's announcement that 50,000 United States troops will be withdrawn from South Vietnam by 15th October, can the Government now take this Parliament and the people of Australia into its confidence and announce when Australian troops will be withdrawn from this costly conflict. 
The position remains as outlined in my statement of 22nd April 1970 (Hansard, Senate, pages 1011-1013). 
I move: 
That the Senate, at its rising, adjourn until tomorrow at 10.40 a.m. 
I do so for the purpose of debating a matter of urgency, namely: 
The urgent need for the reconstruction of the rural economy including a constructive national drought policy.  ] should like to say at the outset that because we have chosen this matter of urgency for debate it does not mean that we are not well aware also of the pitiful state of the aged, invalided and widowed of Australia and the miserable pittance that has been given towards their welfare. We are fully aware also of the plight of the hidden poor and those who have had the value of their savings whittled away by the policy of a government which has allowed inflation to reach critical proportions. We realise that ex-servicemen whose lives have been ruined as a result of their war-caused disabilities and injuries are reduced to a common plight of securing less than the basic wage to live on in these days of galloping inflation. However, we believe that because of its urgency priority is warranted for the matter of a constructive national drought policy and a reconstruction of the rural economy. 
Today, the policy of the Government over the years is catching up with it and events have proved that the Government has failed badly. Once again Australia is faced with a drought of frightening proportions combined with a depression particularly in New South Wales, Queensland and South Australia. The depression is spreading rapidly throughout the other States because of the hopeless situation facing the primary producers as a result of Government policy. This policy has been aided and abetted by the Australian Country Party. Tn a question today  Senator Webster  referred to a catastrophic situation. That is a very strong word to use, but I believe that it describes the situation. It is catastrophic. The Government and the Country Party have let their people down. The people who have relied on them over the years have been let down. They have proved, as always, that in a critical situation they are fair weather friends. They give their supporters an umbrella on a fine day but take it away on a rainy day. In addition to that we have the cynicism of the Government in claiming prosperity for Australia. Underlining all its statements is an emphasis on our minerals and the export of our natural resources. The Government is prepared now to climb on to the new band wagon of prosperity in the mineral field and to leave the farmer to struggle with his difficulties and to face virtual bankruptcy. 
The Government seems to be incapable. The honourable senator who is interjecting does not serve himself well by trying to answer this by saying it is a lot of rubbish because the plight of the small farmer and small grazier is fast becoming hopeless as a result of the low prices for their products and the effect of the drought over vast areas of Australia. The Government cannot do anything about the weather pattern, but later I shall have something to say about how the Government has failed. It is only now that we have before the Parliament measures to complete the emasculation of the Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Authority. The Government has no vigorous policy for water conservation, irrigation and fodder conservation. lt has none of these great national objectives that any government worth its salt would have. The Government should have anticipated that this cycle would come eventually, but it is finding today that these critical things have caught up with it and it has only palliatives - little sticking plasters to put over the cancers in our society.  Senator Webster,  other members of the Country Party and other Government supporters are whistling in the dark to keep up their courage. The worst feature is that the economic conditions combined with the drought are forcing good men off the land. They are being broken in spirit as well as being broken financially. 
In the past, a farmer could withstand drought because of the price he received for his products. He had a margin over and above his living and working expenses. But now he finds that there is no margin. In many cases his credit has been stopped. Here we find the fair weather friends who were very anxious to let him have money at 8%, or at whatever Scrooge interest rates they could get when the farmer was able to pay. Now that the time has come when he really needs assistance from those great financial institutions to which the Government has given birth over a period of 20 years they are turning the farmer away from their doors. He finds that his credit has stopped. This leaves him with no alternative to leaving his property and allowing his slock to die of starvation and lack of water. 
I wonder how many Government supporters who are interjecting really know the ravages of drought. 1 have lived through many bad droughts which were similar to the ones continuing at present in Queensland and New South Wales and, according to what  Senator Young  has said, increasing in severity in South Australia. How many Government supporters know of the utter hopelessness of a drought period as stock search fruitlessly for any sort of fodder - for roots or dry grass of any kind? How many know the spectacle of the weaker stock tailing off until they fall to await their death, the sound of the crows quarking and waiting for the stock to die or to become so weak that they can finish them off? How many know the hopeless plight of the cattle waiting to die at the dried up water holes or the dying wheat crops. The wheat, cattle and sheep that many farmers see dying are their only hope to pay off the interest on their mortgages. How many people in this Parliament or in the cities have watched the recent stock and wool sales and sensed the depressed spirit of farmers who are forced to take market prices that they know very well will be insufficient to cover their costs of production? These conditions exist not only in a few localities but right throughout the length and breadth of Australia. ] ask honourable senators who, over the years, have been claiming to have the support of farmers whether they want to see our rural communities go to the wall and our rural economy crumble. By the lack of activity on their part, this is what is happening. The farmers want help and they want it now. In half of the drought stricken areas of Australia it will not be long before the farmers go to the wall because of the sheer weight of economic circumstances. Family after family is moving out of rural areas against its will to seek the bare means of existence. These people are leaving behind them family hopes and aspirations built up over a long time, even generations. Some farmers are the sons and grandsons of the pioneers. Many of them are veterans of the 2 world wars. These men are the victims of a ruthless Government that is telling them that their only choice is to get big or gel out. What a cynical approach for any government. 
Rural Australia is in the grip of a depression comparable to the depression of the 1930s. This is a very hard fact to digest but it is true. In the 1930s we were suffering from an international depression. The depression we are experiencing at the moment is caused mainly by the inflation that has been allowed to continue over the period that this Government has been in power. When a similar situation existed in the 1930s a moratorium was declared to protect the farmer from foreclosure. On this occasion the Government should be acting along those lines and should be funding the farmers' debts and making available lower interest loans from the Commonwealth Bank. 
We had today a query from  Senator Byrne  relating to farmers' debt adjustment but, according to the figures given today nothing has been done in that regard since 1943. The lime has come for us to look more deeply into these problems and to see that our national assets are not sold piecemeal for the short term benefit. We must recognise the long term benefit of having strong and virile primary industries. This is of paramount importance to the economy. So the time has come for us to look to long term loans with cheaper interest rates for the farmers. There is no doubt that they need them. They are not able to get them from the finance companies. The finance companies have closed up on them. A long term policy must be evolved to see that these people are helped over this very difficult stile that is in front of them. 
Much of the national income that is being obtained at the present time is being directed towards the ultimate profits that will flow to overseas investors. These are the ones who are gaining all the advantages of this Government's concessions while another substantial and reliable section of our community is suffering so much as a result. The Government, as I said, seems incapable of understanding the immediate and radical reconstruction policies that are required for rural industries. One would have thought that by now the Government would have learned a lesson. In the first time ever farmers have been driven into the streets of Perth, Adelaide and even conservative Melbourne to demonstrate. 
I would say that the western districts of Victoria and the Mallee district, where many of these farmers come from, could be classified as conservative. They are conservative because for so many years they fell for the 3-card trick, the sleight of hand trick, that has been put over by the Country Party. 1 have just been handed tonight's Melbourne 'Herald'. According to the headlines, the $30m grant made to farmers in the Budget is inadequate and farmers might march on Canberra. It is reported that Edenhope farmers may organise a mass march on Canberra to  protest over  the Budget. 
The Government has had its opportunity in the last 24 hours to give some glimmer of hope to these people. But what did we see in the Budget? We saw palliatives and parsimonious, temporary expedients that will do no good at all. After all, farming is not a sector in which changes can be made overnight. Farmers have to plan years ahead what they will do with their land, and to make changes rapidly is beyond most of them. Practically every field that should be open to farmers for diversification is being closed to them. Urgent and radical action is needed to avert the demoralisation of a good many honest people in the country towns and on the farms engaged in the industries of wheat, wool, dairy, export fruit and sugar. When one comes to think of it, there are very few alternatives to which farmers can turn to find any hope for the future. 
It comes back to what I said before. The primary industries are being hit from 2 directions. They are being hit by the results of inflation, which is caused by the Government's policy and which is costing farmers out of their markets. The other thing is drought. This is aggravating the serious crisis which we are facing. Today  Senator Young  asked a question relating to South 
Australia. It would appear that a crisis is facing many people in that State. The cause of this mess can be sheeted home quite clearly to the policy followed over the years by the Government. The Government has neglected the need for long term planning. It has also fooled the people in primary industry about the European Common Market. I would like to refer to the remarks that were made by the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen)  when he recently returned from his trip overseas. A newspaper report, referring to the Minister for Trade and Industry, quoted him as saying:  1 got nothing to encourage me in Brussels.  . . Our trade could be in serious jeopardy. 
Australian agricultural trade might be 'greatly endangered' if Britain joined the Common Market, he warned. 
Australians have known for years that Britain would join the Common Market. We have known that Britain could not survive as an individual island off the coast of Europe. Joining the Common Market was the only prospect it had for any sort of economic stability. According to the newspaper report  Mr McEwen  went on to say: 
If Britain joined on the same terms operating at the present time, in due course our markets for dairy products and soft wheat would disappear.' 
I put this to the Government: What sort of an administration do we have when all of a sudden we are confronted with inescapable problems relating to the primary industries which are our traditional backbone, the basic part of our economy? 
Precautions needed to be taken at the time when there was a strong prospect of Britain joining the European Economic Community. That was the time when alternative plans should have been made. For some years Australia has been finding a small outlet for its wheat by selling to China. It has been a hypocritical policy because we have failed to recognise the existence of this vast continent whose people are prepared not only to buy our wheat but to pay cash for it. There are 800 million mouths which could consume our primary products. Yet we have gone through the absolute charade of refusing to recognise these people and to send our most vigorous trading people up there to see whether China is willing to buy more of our primary products. Do honourable senators mean to say that people with a developing economy such as we see in that vast area of Asia are not seeking to improve their quality of life and their standard of living? Do honourable senators mean to say that a primary producing country such as ours could not have seen the potential for wider markets than just the supply of wheat? 
I believe the Government stands condemned for not having developed that market and markets in Indonesia, the Philippines, South East Asia, India, Pakistan and many of our other near neighbours. Surely arrangements to expand our trade could have been made. If an alternative government had been in power arrangements would have been made for longterm credits for these countries. After all, if the people in those countries are not heading towards a better standard of living, if they cannot expect some prosperity in a world where science is capable of producing plenty, not very much future exists for Australia. Whether Australia likes it or not, it is part of the Asian geography. We have to learn that these are our near neighbours and that our future depends on our trading with them and our co-existence with them. They are our natural markets. Yet what do we see as a result of 20 years of Government maladministration of the trading policy of this country? Within a period of 1 2 months we find the door closed in Europe, sanctions and embargoes put on our exports to the United States and strong lobbies in the United States Congress from the various primary producing States to exclude Australian products. The same thing applies in Canada which has found that its markets are declining, lt is in strong competition with us and it has refused to increase the quotas on our meat and other products. All the way along the line the chickens - they are ugly black chickens - are coming home to roost on this Government, lt has to face up to its responsibility for having allowed this to happen. 
The same thing applies with regard to a long range policy on drought, In 21 years the Government cannot even claim to have initiated the great concept of the Murray and Murrumbidgee water supply which comes from the diversion of the Snowy waters across the range. When one looks at that scheme in its proper perspective one can see the potential there is in it and the value of such a scheme in Queensland which has a high rainfall on the coastal areas. Yet for years and years we have heard honourable senators from Queensland who sit on this side of the chamber begging the Government to direct its attention towards bigger conservation and diversion schemes for that State. So it goes on right throughout Australia. 
Yes; promise me, Kathleen Mavourneen. lt is all fight for getting votes at election time. The Government makes great play of honouring a promise. Whenever it does it gets the headlines on radio and television and says: Look, we have honoured our promise', as though it is a wonderful occurrence - and it is too. We hear many of these promises on the eve of an election. Unfortunately we see very few of them fulfilled. Others wish to follow me in this debate so 1 conclude by saying that the Government has let the farmers of this country down. The Government has to take drastic measures to meet this critical situation. Unless a positive and imaginative scheme of economic assistance is adopted to relieve farmers of the debts which are hanging around their shoulders and which result from the depressed prices they receive, high costs of production and drought, we will have a tragedy unequalled in the history of this country. The situation is serious enough for such a strong appeal to be made in this urgency debate. In raising this matter of urgency we say that this is an urgent problem. 
The Australian Labor Party asks the Government to do whatever it can to try to retrieve the situation which it has allowed to develop. There are so many different ways in which it can be done. The whole of the industry can be reconstructed with energy. Surely it is not beyond the wit of the Government and its advisers to lift this industry which has been such a vital segment of our economy back to where the people in it can feel with confidence that they are recognised in the community. The primary producers are the backbone of our country. They put up with the lack of many of the facilities and amenities of the cities. They put up with heat, with drought, with flies and all 'the other inconveniences of living in the country areas. To feel they are practically neglected by the Government must be very heartbreaking to them. The Australian Labor Party makes this strong appeal to the Government because of the urgency of the crisis that is confronting them. We hope that the full power of Government policy will be aimed in their direction. 
by leave - I wish to make a short statement on behalf of the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy).  Education is in a state of crisis and the Budget has done nothing to meet pressing and urgent needs in many areas. For instance, studies have shown that there is a sharp increase in the retention rates; that is, the number of 16 year olds staying on will increase by 50% between now and 1975. This will make even more critical the teacher shortage. Teaching is a low status profession and large numbers of young people are refusing to enter it because of the shocking conditions, The major problems will arise, according to experts, in the senior forms of secondary schools because of the serious lack of trained teachers. This is rapidly getting worse and the proportion of teachers with tertiary qualifications is falling throughout Australia. In one State, Queensland, it is as low as 23% and even the best State in this regard, South Australia, has only 45% of teachers with tertiary qualifications. The sharply rising retention rate will greatly emphasise the lack of qualified teachers. This is also the most expensive area, with pupils in senior forms costing about twice as much to teach as primary level pupils. 
The Government is not recognising any of these pressing problems and its spokesmen still talk, in terms of class sizes instead of recognising the problem in terms of age groups. In New South Wales the Government recently offered 12,000 scholarships, but because of the depressed conditions of teaching less than 5,000 have been taken up by teacher trainees. It has been estimated that over the next 5 years Australia will need 25,000 to 30,000 more teachers. Where will they come from while these conditions persist? In Victoria, 4-day school weeks for secondary classes are under active consideration because of lack of teachers. Commonwealth aid, in the form of science grants, is being wasted because schools lack facilities to house the equipment sent blindly to the schools. Imported science teaching aids are being stored in sheds. The States are so starved of funds that the proportion of State budgets going to education is now levelling off which is a scandalous position. It is estimated that only 29% of the total revenues available to the New South Wales Government goes to educa tion. The only thing to do to meet the crisis is for the Federal Government to intervene and finance the States in a crash, programme for buildings, facilities and teacher training. 
Australia spends only 4.4% of its gross national product on education - one of the lowest percentages anywhere in the Western world. This is a national disgrace and the minor concessions to education in this Budget will have practically no effect at all in meeting the massive problems confronting this country in education. 
Will the Minister representing the Prime Minister consult with the Prime Minister with a view to negotiating with the Australian Broadcasting Commission and commercial television stations for the purpose of allowing spokesmen for the  H  million pensioners of various types to speak to the nation about the ridiculously cynical attitude of the Government in making a miserly adjustment of 50c a week or about 7c a day to pensions when at least $1.50 is required to hold the purchasing power of pensions at their existing inadequate level? 
Quite obviously the senator is asking me what we would all recognise, and what I am sure anybody listening would recognise, as a political question, and one calculated to be a political question. He expresses in the question his views. They are certainly not my views and certainly not the views of the overwhelming majority of the community in relation to what the Government has done in terms of social service benefits. He chooses to take one item out of the whole social service programme and to make play with it. I suggest that he put the question on notice if he still wants an answer, because I feel there is no need at this point of time to make the representation for which he asks. Of course, if it goes on notice it will be processed in the usual way. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Postmaster-General In view of the widespread dissatisfaction with the inadequate consideration given in the Budget to age and invalid pensioners throughout the nation will the Postmaster-General grant to pensioners a remission of the $4.20 increase in telephone rentals announced in the Budget, which equals nearly 9 weeks of the miserly increase of 50c a week in the pension? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister-in-Charge of Aboriginal Affairs. The Minister is no doubt aware of the isolated nature of Cape Barren Island in Bass Strait, lt is often cut off from shipping in bad weather, and the aerodrome is in bad shape. Is the Minister aware that the indigenous community on the Island is most concerned about the closing of the hospital and the departure of its trained nursing sister? They are concerned also at the lack of someone on the island trained in first aid, for amongst the Island people are aged and invalids as well as families with young children and babies. Will the Minister make representations to the MinisterinCharge of Aboriginal Affairs to have an inquiry made into the closing down of the hospital and the lack of a trained nursing sister on the Island? 
Has the Leader of the Government in the Senate seen the recently published reports that in the last financial year Western Mining Corporation Ltd made a profit of $14m; that the Ford Motor Company of Australia Ltd made a profit of $25m; that General MotorsHolden Pty Ltd made a profit of $30m; that Myer Emporium Ltd made a profit of $10m; that Woolworths Ltd made a profit of $10m; that G. J. Coles and Co. Ltd made a profit of more than $llm; that Australian Paper Manufacturers Ltd made a profit of more than $12m; and that the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd made- a profit of $60m? Does the Government agree that this widespread picture of giant company profits makes a disturbing contrast with the financial outlook for the average wage earner and pensioner whose hopes have been dashed by the Budget or do these rocketing profits prove where the Government's real interests lie? 
I think it is fair to mention also that in this Budget the rate of taxation on company profits has been increased. I could have mentioned this in answer to an earlier question about retrospective payment of pensions. As  Senator Webster  pointed out recently, that increased rate of tax will be an impost for the financial year 1969-70, so it will be a retrospective tax in that sense. It will mean an increase in the tax, if honourable senators want to argue the position. In any event, the revenue, the taxpayers and the people of Australia up to this Budget were receiving by way of taxation from these companies 45% of their profits. Now the companies will pay 47i%. If the other taxes that are associated with companies are taken into account, far from being critical of these big companies, I think we should hold up our hands in praise that they are providing gainful employment for our people. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Has the Minister seen a report in today's 'Australian' that evidence is mounting swiftly in the United States of America that  President  Nixon and his critics no longer disagree about even the timetable for full disengagement from Vietnam, which is to be completed by the end of next year? Is the Australian Government so obsessed with its stubbornness over Vietnam that it is unable to announce our timetable for disengagement and withdrawal in clear and positive terms? Should we not be now working  out  the extent of assistance that Australia is prepared to give South Vietnam when our military commitment is terminated? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONQuite obviously the question is tied and geared to a motion which was proposed and a debate which took place in another place several days ago. The honourable senator referred to a statement in the 'Australian' of today's date. I think the term statement' is rather deceptive. What the honourable senator referred to was an expression of view by a journalist. 
lt was a leading article. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior. The Minister is no doubt aware of the growing public consciousness of the need for plans for mitigation of the effects of natural disasters, such as floods, fires and cyclones, and the need to gather information for scientific research into the subject. Will the Minister for the Interior, as head of the Division of National Mapping, have a photographic survey made of the flood areas in Tasmania while they are flooded so that the fullest background information relating to this costly flood, and similar floods that occur in the State, could be available for study and evaluation for flood mitigation planning in the future? 
Is the Leader of the Government in the Senate aware that the Commonwealth has refused to issue a visa for entry into Australia to the famous and highly respected American negro and anti-war satirist Dick Gregory, who was coming to Australia as one of the main speakers at the Vietnam Moratorium Conference to be held in Sydney on 18th, 19th and 20th of this month? Was the Government's refusal to grant a visa to this well known American politically inspired? Will the Government state on what grounds it was refused? Will the Government give instructions immediately for a review of the refusal? 
The honourable senator has directed this question to me as the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I take it that he did so with intent. Normally such a question would be referred to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration. I am not aware of any of the circumstances associated with the refusal to grant to  Mr Gregory  a visa to enter Australia. Therefore I think the question should be directed on notice to the Minister for Immigration, who no doubt will examine it and through his representative in this place, the Minister for Housing, give a considered reply. 
My question is directed to the Minister-in-Charge of Tourist Activities. 1 draw the Minister's attention to the statement by the American negro comedian Dick Gregory that he wished to come to Australia as a sightseer, although it would appear that Government officials believed that he wished only to speak in the Vietnam Moratorium Campaign. 1 ask: Has the Minister expressed any concern to the Minister for Immigration about the refusal to grant a visa to Gregory under these conditions? What would be the implications to Australian tourism if Americans who wished to come here as sightseers were refused visas and the Government declined to give reasons for its refusals? 
I direct the attention of the Leader of the Government in the Senate to an announcement made on Australian Broadcasting Commission radio today by a spokesman of the Swiss Red Cross, which is supervising the Geneva Convention on the treatment of prisoners of war, in which he strongly criticised both the North Vietnamese and South Vietnamese military authorities for their disregard of the Geneva Convention and their failure to observe the rights and entitlements of prisoners of war. As adherence to the Geneva Convention is one of the last remnants of sanity in the barbarism of modern warfare, will the Minister reaffirm Australia's previously declared observance of the terms of the Convention and condemn the non-adherence of other countries to the terms of the Convention? 
I suppose it would be true to say that  Senator O'Byrne, Senator Branson  and I probably have more feelings about the Geneva Convention than anybody else in this chamber because we went through a period of our lives as prisoners of war. The significance and importance of the Geneva Convention is. to my knowledge, something of which all countries - all countries in the free world, al any rate - are aware. I do not think that I should enlarge at question time on this matter. It is my belief that Australia subscribes to the Convention absolutely but 1 am only going on my personal knowledge, f would prefer a statement by the Minister for External Affairs to be put down in this place. 1 can understand  Senator O'Byrne's  personal interest in and concern about this matter because we both experienced a period of time when, I regret to say, the Convention was honoured in the breach. It was only very late in the war that it was applied. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Housing. I ask this question in view of the question which was just asked by  Senator McManus  concerning the fact that most honourable senators were prepared to fight for migrants coming to Australia and the remarks which were made earlier about the disallowance of a visa to an American citizen. 
I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate whether his attention has been drawn to the leading article in today's Melbourne 'Age' under the heading 'Who is laughing?' in which the question is asked: Is the Australian society so sick that we must regard American negro Dick Gregory, a pacificist dissenter, as a threat to our national health? Will the Leader of the Government in the Senate try to salvage a shred of respect by asking Cabinet to reverse the extraordinary decision to bar  Mr Gregory? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONlt will be a sorry day for Australia if the policy of any Government is determined and judgment is made by honourable senators as a result of reading a leading article. Journalists are entitled to express a view. Honourable senators are expected to make a judgment. God help us if we accept the proposition that because some journalist writes an article in a paper, ipso facto, that should become the policy of the Government. 
The motion which is before the Senate is of great importance to Tasmania, lt seeks the Standing Committee on Primary and Secondary Industry and Trade to investigate the operation of the Australian National Line's shipping services to and from Tasmania with regard to the factors considered in establishing freight rates; the appropriateness of the current level of freight rates; and any amendments necessary or desirable to the governing legislation to enable the operation to be carried out at the lowest possible freight rate. On behalf of the Australian Labor Party,  Senator Wriedt  has moved an amendment to the effect that the Committee be also required to investigate the other legislative or administrative steps considered necessary or desirable to overcome the economic disabilities suffered by Tasmania in connection with those services. 
The problem which Tasmania is facing at present is mainly an economic one. It boils down to the fact that, as the only island State in the Commonwealth, Tasmania is suffering from disabilities which the other States do not have. Firstly, Tasmania has fewer than 400,000 people, which is in itself insufficient population to support the economic absorption of the products of industries already established in Tasmania. Tasmania relies on the mainland States and overseas markets to buy 80 per cent or more of its production. Therefore, shipping is of vital importance to it. 
I do not think anyone will contradict my allegation that the Government's policy of allowing inflation to occur in all areas of the economy has disturbed the normal economic pattern to such an extent that nobody knows where Australia is heading. The Government's policies have caused anxiety in the shipping industry. The fact that there is anxiety in the shipping industry is shown by the fact that, although a lot of criticisms has been levelled at the Australian National Line, all shipping lines operating to and from Tasmania have to some degree increased their freight rates. The inflation which the Government has allowed to occur in Australia has resulted in freight rates being increased. Inflation gathers momentum the further it goes. When shipping freight rates are increased there is a corresponding percentage increase in the price of commodities. Increased freight rates have a tendency to destroy the economy of the whole of Tasmania to a greater degree than the economy of any of the other States. 

 Senator Wriedt said earlier that a recent report indicates that Tasmania is in a very precarious position insofar as ils primary industries are concerned. The price of its wool has been depressed. Tasmania is experiencing very serious competition on the overseas market for its apples. Other difficulties have also arisen. The orchardists of Tasmania are finding themselves in a very difficult position. The producers of dairy products are, like their colleagues in other parts of Australia, having troubles, too. The same applies to Tasmania's pea growing industry. People throughout the whole of the primary industry sector of Tasmania are rinding that they are on a similar level to the one which they were on when Australia was entering the depression years of the 1930s. Tasmania has been relying on the industries which have been developed in recent, years for its economic buoyancy. I refer to such things as the massive paper, pulp and newsprint industry, the electrolytic zinc complex, the manufacture of superphosphate and the cement works at Railton. All of these things have built up the export earnings of Tasmania. To superimpose the burden of higher freight rates on these industries is countering any advantage that Tasmania was able to offer those industries to establish themselves there. They were attracted there mainly by the large timber concessions which were offered and hy electricity rates which compared more than favour ably with electricity rates on the mainland. Unfortunately, inflation and the extra charges that are being imposed from time to time are eating up all the advantages that Tasmania offered. 
Now it can be said quite fairly that the opportunities for development in Tasmania are being severely restricted. Wc have evidence of our young people leaving the State to find job opportunities in other States. As was mentioned earlier by  Senator Rae,  industries have had surveys carried out to examine the Feasibility of moving their industries out of the State. A debate such as this perhaps does not bring home forcefully enough the plight that the latest impost of the  Mi  per cent increase in freight rates has placed Tasmania in in comparison with the rest of the Commonwealth. The subject has been canvassed very widely. Deputations of State officials have met the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Sinclair).  Deputations have waited on the various Commonwealth Ministers. Every path has been followed to present Tasmania's case to the Commonwealth Government. 
No, not on this issue. The Pak Poy people are doing a study of the whole transport system in Tasmania. Perhaps the only glimmer of hope that Tasmania has is that out of the report the Minister will obtain sufficient information to prevail on Cabinet to help Tasmania. I can remember the earlier clays of shipping problems when, in the prewar and immediate post-war periods, the Postmaster-General subsidised the operation of the Taroona' and the 'Nairana' by paying special rates for carrying letters and other postal articles to Tasmania. That virtual subsidy on ships operating the Tasmanian route kept open the life-line. 1 believe that the time has come to act, despite the fact that I am speaking before the Pak Poy report has been presented. 1 think it is obvious that that report will mention the severe disadvantages caused by Tasmania having too many ports for such a small population and for a relatively small island. I think the report will recommend  -  I hope it does - an extension of the railway system to connect the main ports so that Tasmania will have the most economic form of transport to connect it to the mainland. I think the report will show that Tasmania is in such a dire position that a direct Treasury subsidy needs to be paid to whichever line is operating to Tasmania to keep down freight rates. 
In my view, the problem is this: No matter how hard the primary producers work and no matter how efficient they become, they will have to compete on the same tough markets on the mainland to sell the bulk of their production. Therefore, the extra freight rates have reduced their ability to be able to compete favourably. 1 believe the increased freight rates could have very serious consequences for Tasmania's primary industries. The matter has been canvassed so widely that I believe that those who are in a position to make decisions should be able to make decisions. The Minister for Shipping and Transport is in possession of all the facts of the case. I can quite easily understand the predicament in which he finds himself, in that he does not want to interfere with the private arrangements of the Australian National Line. The obsession with making profits out of the Commonwealth line perhaps deserves deeper examination than it has been given because shipping, like roads and railways, provides a public service. Shipping helps the flow of trade and commerce. Substantial subsidies and assistance have been granted by the Commonwealth to various States for the standardisation of railway lines and for the building of beef roads. We believe that similar massive support is warranted to help Tasmania hold its position as an equal partner in the Commonwealth. 
I support the idea of the matter being referred to the Standing Committee on Primary and Secondary Industry and Trade. The person most vitally affected is the ordinary Tasmanian consumer, the family man, who has to bear the brunt of the extra impost not only of increased freight rates but also of increases contained in the Budget. It does not matter from which direction the revenue is gathered, eventually the consumer has to pay for it. It is only now that the people are feeling each increase imposed by the last Budget. This stimulates and exacerbates the discontent that is evident throughout Australia today. The Government has a very big responsi bility to do something constructive to solve the problem. 1 do not know whether if the Standing Committee were to present a report on these lines that report would make any difference to the facts that are available already. Nevertheless, the investigation will widen the field of information available to push Tasmania's very urgent case to those who understand it best. 
I support the amendment moved by  Senator Wriedt  because it makes the motion a little more comprehensive. It will take some positive steps that will need to be taken to overcome the disabilities. It will widen the field of investigation. I hope that, in doing that, it will alleviate the very grave problem experienced by Tasmania in relation to increased shipping freight rates. 

 Senator LILLICO (Tasmania) [5. 23 J- -In my opinion, the Australian National Line would be a phenomenal organisation if it did not increase its freight rates. In its last available report, out of 28 operational items 24 have shown increases due to the inflationary spiral through which we are passing. The 4 that did not show an increase are items such as commission fees, which did not necessarily have to be increased. The Line incurred a loss of about $2.5m on other runs throughout the Commonwealth. In addition the ANL paid nearly $2m in income tax. After having paid ali that, it showed a profit of about Sim. In Tasmania that has prompted the thought: Is the run to Tasmania paying for these losses? Is it paying this income taxation? Is it paying the dividend to the Commonwealth Government which, of course, has slumped through the other operations of ANL? 
I want to say this with as much emphasis as I can:  Senator Wriedt  did not refer to one loss incurred by ANL. He could have gone on and referred to the loss of nearly $500,000 on the Europe to Australia run. In my opinion, it is absolutely intolerable that freight rates to Tasmania should be increased to cover the big losses that are incurred on ANL's operations around Australia, and more particularly by the losses that are incurred on the Europe to Australia run which has just been inaugurated. Let us suppose that next year the losses increase, as they probably will, and let us suppose that there is a loss on ANL's operations to Japan. Is it not elementary that freight rates to Tasmania must be increased to cover those losses? 
The 2 matters cannot be divorced. Is it not reasonable that it' losses are incurred on ANL's overseas ventures, those losses should be met by the whole of the Australian people, not just by the people from Tasmania who happen to use ANL's freighting service? 
I am not blaming ANL for the present position. I am blaming the system under which freight rates to Tasmania are increased in order to cover the losses incurred by the ANL's other operations. Let me refer to interstate trade on the mainland. This trade is carried on, to a fairly large extent, through the railway system. The 5 States on the mainland use the railway system as a means of conveyance of interstate freight. Last year that railway system, overall, incurred a loss of nearly $90m. That means that Australian taxpayers subsidised the railway system of Australia to the extent of nearly $90m. As I say, that system is one of the principal agencies used for the carriage of interstate goods on the mainland. Road transport has to compete with the railway system and that competition must, to a certain extent, influence the charges imposed by road transport. When we look at ANL's operations to and from Tasmania, we realise that ANL must make a profit, it must pay income taxation and it must return a dividend to the Commonwealth. 
I repeat what I said when I rose to speak: In my opinion, it is absolutely intolerable that freight rates to Tasmania should be regulated by the substantial losses which ANL incurs on other runs, more especially on its overseas operations. I do not think that the present position can be justified in any shape or form, and the sooner the overseas operations of ANL are divorced from its total operations, the sooner satisfaction will be given to the Tasmanian people. I believe that  Senator Rae's  motion is adequate. I believe that it covers the position which  Senator Wriedt  has set out to cover in the amendment which he has proposed. If it is found, after the Standing Committee on Primary and Secondary Industry and Trade has embarked upon its investigation, that it is necessary to enlarge the scope of the reference, I take it that the Committee can come back to the Senate and request that the necessary alteration be made. Furthermore, the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Sinclair)  agrees with the motion and, when all is said and done, he is the Minister who controls the operations of ANL. 
I repeat again, at the risk of being wearisome, that what Tasmanian people resent more than anything else is any suggestion that they should have to meet the considerable losses which ANL incurs in its operations around the mainland, such as the loss of $750,000 on the carriage of 8 shiploads of goods to Darwin. Tasmanian people resent the fact that their freight rales are increased to cover the losses incurred by the overseas operations of ANL. I suggest that those losses properly should be met by the people of Australia as a whole. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Postmaster-General. I advise the Minister of a recent announcement in Tasmania concerning the intention of the PostmasterGeneral to divide the State into 3 regions for dialling purposes and to issue separate telephone directories for each region. The announcement also stated that 3 directories- 
Is the Leader of the Government in the Senate aware of the public and Press outcry about the failure of the Prime Minister to speak in the debate on the Budget? Is it not usual for the Prime Minister to speak in the Budget debate in another place? If so, did the immediate public outcry after  Mr Bury's  horror budget cause  Mr Gorton  to think again about getting further publicity for budgetary measures so obviously unpopular with the electorate at large? 

 - Senator Greenwood has established himself in the Senate as the consistent apologist for and rationaliser of Government policy, but during the course of his remarks tonight on the Budget he failed completely to do what is expected of a Government member, that is, to give some indication of how the Budget would lead Australia into the 1970s and what it would do to give some faith and hope to the people of Australia to believe that this Government was not heading towards bankruptcy, not only in the financial sense but also in the moral sense. The people of Australia are listening to what spokesmen for the Government are saying to see whether there is some glimmer of hope in the situation into which this country is heading. I am afraid that listening tonight to every word that fell from  Senator Greenwood  one would have heard only a rehash of the hotch-potch that comprises this Budget. 
We have proposed an amendment which I believe suras up the Budget in the minds of the people of Australia. We have condemned it as a deceptive and negative Budget because it fails to meet the real needs of the Australian people, especially with respect to standards of social service and war pensioners, assistance to schools, hospitals and urban authorities and restructuring of stricken primary industries, and because it introduces and increases taxes and charges of a regressive and inequitable nature.  Senator Greenwood,  in his speech, did everything but touch on these very vital matters that affect the ordinary people of this country. 
I also listened to  Senator Gair.  If ever we heard a cover-up by the leader of a rump party, we heard it from him. He was trying to pull the wool over the eyes of the electors for the purpose of seeing through the time until the coming Senate election. He condemned one of the Ministers in his State for waiting to receive the plums of the receipts duty tax. We know very well that eventually we will see him cross over to the Government side and support that tax. We know very well that he is sparring for time. He is not fooling anyone. 
The time of the Senate election.  Senator Gair  has given the Government an undertaking that he will support the validation of this State tax which has been imposed illegally. The High Court of Australia has ruled against this tax being imposed by the States.  Senator Gair  knows full well that it is an illegal tax. 
Whether or not only part of it is illegal, it is (ike the curate's egg; the bad part overrules the good part. The point I am making is that  Senator Gair  knows very well that the High Court has given its decision on this tax, namely, that it is an illegal tax. lt is not allowed to be imposed on the people of the States by the State governments. But, with the assistance of  Senator Gair,  it is being validated- 
No. That is the point. That is where the cover-up comes. The honourable senator is protecting Queensland. 
Yes. It is being imposed illegally in Tasmania, the same as anywhere else. The Premier of Tasmania has said openly: 'We will continue to collect it until someone challenges us'. What sort of an attitude is it when the leader of a State or the leader of any community imposes taxes and challenges individuals in the community to take legal action to prove their invalidity, as has been done in Western Australia? 
We know very well that the validation until October is for the purpose of allowing  Senator Gair  time to go to the Queensland people and say what he has done. But we also know very well that when the whips are cracked he will cross over and vote on the side of the Government. So much for all the crocodile tears that he shed tonight in talking about his interest in the people of Queensland or the people of Australia. 
We believe that the part of the tax which is valid should be imposed by the Commonwealth and that the Commonwealth should meet its responsibility to the States. Today we are seeing one of the greatest confidence tricks ever played on the States by the Commonwealth, namely, its immigration policy. The Commonwealth is sending migrants to the various States after encouraging them to come here and work in industry, thus imposing on local government authorities the responsibility of supplying the various facilities and amenities required in the community. 
Not only are people having to pay the extra charges that are imposed by this Budget in the form of extra postal charges, extra excise duty and extra sales tax - in every field their indirect taxes are increasing - and not only are they having to meet the extra freight rates imposed on them, but they are finding that the rates that they have to pay to their local government authorities are increasing every year. This is a direct result of the action of the Federal Government in adopting a policy without providing local government authorities with the assistance that they should receive to help them to finance the consequences of that policy. This is an evasion by the Commonwealth Government of its responsibilities to both the State governments and the local government authorities. 
Great play has been made on the concessions that have been given to the lower and middle income earners. If ever a thim ble and pea trick was put over the people, this is it. The concessions mean that a man on $60 a week, which is called the average wage, receives $1 a week. But if anyone cares to go into the details of the effects of indirect taxation he will find that much more than that $1 a week will be eaten up by the increases in indirect taxation that have been imposed under this Budget. 

 Senator Greenwood spoke about the developing affluent society. But this affluent society about which so many people on the Government side talk is very thinly spread. The ordinary wage earner today is in a state of turmoil because he is finding it practically impossible to meet his commitments. The young married person, who is starting off in life today and who wants finance for a home, finds that the exorbitant and usurious rate of interest that is charged  -  81 per cent - is just too much for him to bear. Yet speakers on behalf of the Government try to justify a policy that brings about that state of affairs. 
When we were offering home ownership to people through the Commonwealth Bank the rate of interest was 31 per cent - the rate that applied to war service homes. But I will not go into that matter because it is a thing of the past and we should be dealing with the present and the future. We are supposed to be legislating for the new era of the 1970s. At this time the whole of the country is in a state of crisis and there is dissatisfaction throughout the whole community with the inflationary spiral that exists. An attempt is made to place the blame for it on the man working in industry. He goes to the arbitration court to try to prove that he is entitled to higher wages. But by the time the decision is brought down the inflationary process has eaten up any gain he makes. Is it any wonder that the whole community is disturbed? 
I believe that the situation in Australia today - this Budget does nothing to alleviate it - is that we are part of the whole Western economic system which is breaking down, and the further this Government goes the more it proves to the people its inability to cope with the inherent weaknesses in the system we are following, under which the incomes of people on superannuation or other fixed incomes are being eroded without the Government giving any consideration to the consequences of its policy on inflation. As a consequence, we are seeing a general breakdown in the institutions, the ideals and the prospects of the society in which we live. 
It all amounts to this: We are involved in a war in Vietnam which is taking a certain proportion of the revenue of this country. We are skimming off about $300m a year directly, apart from the indirect charges that we have to meet, for a war which is unjust and immoral. We are breaking down our international reputation, which we have built up over the years, by being participants in a war in which many of the things which are happening qualify as war crimes, lt has been a debacle in Vietnam. People have lost faith in our cause for the simple reason that war was never declared and it was a civil war in which we should never have become involved. Yet the Government has been stubborn and intransigent. It has tried to keep up the pressure on the people to say that we are justified in being there. 
Not only have our young people become involved in the war in Vietnam and not only have we suffered loss of life, but this very expensive commitment is depriving this nation of a share of the affluence to which  Senator Greenwood  referred. The war machine is blocking our commitments in this country to proper housing and slum abolition, a proper allocation for education, a proper attitude towards health responsibilities and hospitals and proper safety precautions on our roads. We have slaughter on our roads as a result of bad engineering and a lack of funds with which to widen the highways and provide the other facilities that should be provided by a government that is looking after its people. Many other requirements involving human welfare are not being provided because too much of our funds are being thrown into the war in Vietnam. The inflationary process that is continuing reacts most heavily on the lower and middle income earners. Their capacity to meet their commitments is being reduced at a much more rapid rate than will be admitted by any Government spokesman. 
I want to have a few words to say about the future of this country's overseas mar kets. The Government has been deceptive in the extreme in failing to advise not only our primary producers but all other people in the country of the consequences of the loss of our traditional markets in the United Kingdom after the inevitable entry of that country into the European Common Market. No alternative markets exist for our primary products. This applies in all fields, it applies to our wool, wheat, dairy products and all other primary products. In every direction we see a very grim future. What has the Government done about alternative markets? We have- the ridiculous situation in which for pure party political purposes the Government refuses to take a realistic attitude towards our near neighbours, geographically speaking, in Asia where there arc markets available. The Japanese are not missing their opportunities in this direction. There are markets available in Mainland China. We have been particularly stubborn in failing to realise the potential markets in China for many of our primary products. We can build up markets in that country for many products just as we have done in respect of wheat. In building a market we would also provide ourselves with better security for the future than we are providing at present. The Government is practising deception in its foreign policy in apparently believing that the people we are backing in Vietnam, Thailand, Cambodia and other places will be of any use to us in future. All we are doing is increasing enmity towards us amongst the people who are the potential consumers in South East Asia of our products. The Government is being deceptive in saying that it believes that the Thieus and the Kys are defending the freedom of their people for our future benefit. 
Another section of our foreign policy in which there is large scale deception is that which involves Chiang Kai Shek and the Republic of China. This country has received our support. It is my view that the recognition of this country and the influence that it has been allowed to wield in the United Nations has been one of the main causes of the weakening of that organisation as a power for peace throughout the world and as a power for international co-operation. It appears thai the Liberal Government of this country does not even yet realise the consequences of its policy, but as long as this deception continues so that this country retains a seat in the Security Council, which it was given originally - and this is my confirmed view - to weaken that body, the United Nations will be unable to function as it should. We have observed this lying attitude by governments at the very top level, designed to sustain a country which has no right to be included amongst the 5 large nations of the world. If a more realistic attitude were adopted there would be better prospects for peace throughout the world. 
Many countries are facing crises. The United Kingdom is an example. In that country there has been a period of internal disruption. The inflationary process has continued and the situation in the UK is becoming serious. There are crises also in the United States of America. We have tried to emulate that country. We have followed its line of foreign policy but the US is having its own internal dissention on such a scale that it is practically impossible to cope with. In Australia our economic system is in a critical condition. The Government cannot control galloping inflation. The people who have to carry the burden are those least able to do so. 
It is my view that the Government will never be able to resolve this problem as long as it continues to allow international financiers to dominate our economic policy. Our recently discovered natural resources of iron ore, bauxite and other minerals are falling more and more into the hands of overseas monopolists, who are being aided and abetted by this Government. They are being allowed to skim the cream of returns from these discoveries of natural resources. The Government does nothing to restrain them. The Government has failed to take advantage of these important discoveries. It has failed to reap the profits and turn them back into Australia's development. These huge profits are being inevitably siphoned off as a result of overseas investment in this country on a scale which has frustrated and sickened so many Australian people. This Government has reached the stage at which it is completely negative. There is no doubt, as  Senator Cant  has just said by interjection, that at the first chance available to them the people will show their disgust at the ballot box. The Government will get the shock of its life. 
The worst feature of current developments, as I see it, is that while young people in the community are growing up believing that they should have some useful, purposeful future, this is being denied them. This Government is giving no lead to the young people of Australia. Authoritarianism and repression are widespread here today and civil liberties are being eroded. When the youth of our country are looking for some lead, or some inspiration for the future, the Government will have to learn that it cannot control them by repressive legislation. In every institution and in every age when those with more power have met those with less power there has occurred a crisis of law and order. This is the crux of the big problem that we have to face today. How are we going to give our youth inspiration for the future? The Government, in my view, is adopting a completely wrong attitude in believing that it can achieve results by force, by the club or by the gun. This has been tried in other countries and has failed. Inevitably it will fail here. You cannot force young people to believe in a system that offers them no encouragement for the future. The taking over of industry by monopolists to satisfy stock exchange investors and such people is a negative development that does not meet with the approval of those in the community who have a responsibility for the future. 
As I said when I commenced, we are entering an era in the 1970s and beyond when science and technology can solve many of man's problems. If these great forces are directed in the proper way we can have an affluent society in this country but the policy of this Government is so negative and so encourages inflation and deprives the underprivileged people of the community that it just cannot be tolerated. 
Debate interrupted. 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service seen the result of the latest gallup poll which indicates a continued hardening of public opinion against the gaoling of people who refuse to register for national service? The poll revealed that only 4 per cent approved of the present penalty of a gaol sentence. In view of the widespread dissatisfaction with the present provisions of the National Service Act, which dissatisfaction is being expressed in protests and demonstrations which in turn create clashes with law enforcement authorities, will the Minister for Labour and National Service give urgent consideration to amending the hateful parts of the National Service Act and to providing an alternative to young men so that they may perform duties other than combat duties? 
When this debate was interrupted last night I had drawn attention to some of the critical situations with which we will have to deal in the foreseeable future. I had mentioned that we are at a watershed of history at present, that we have reached a time when we must revalue many of the old established ideas that we had in relation to Australia's position in finding markets to replace the traditional markets that we have had since we have been settled here as a white section of this part of Asia, as migrants from Europe, more so since we have been on our own with regard to dependence on the British Empire or British Commonwealth for our markets. I believe that the reevaluation of our position has not proceeded rapidly enough, as the result of which many of the critical situations to which I have referred are tumbling in, not only on the Administration of this country but also on the people who are becoming quite alarmed at the position as they see it. 
Recently a number of statements have been made by the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen)  and the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  relating to the European Common Market. Australia's situation in relation to world markets has been changing for a long time, but for party political purposes there has been a tremendous amount of covering up of the real facts relating to the European Common Market, which is a very important development in our marketing history. The time has come when those who have the responsibility must be much more candid and not only bring the people of Australia into their confidence but also tell primary producers what has happened to their traditional markets. Attention is being drawn away from these important issues by local conditions and situations such as the drought which in many places has reached proportions which have been unequalled in the past. 
According to reports 1 have received, conditions in parts of the west of Queensland, until the last weekend in areas of New South Wales, in parts of South Australia and Western Australia, have reduced virtually to ruin and bankruptcy many people who were considered to be the most substantially established people in the district. It is not as though the drought is entirely responsible for our situation. The confidence and optimism of the man on the land has always been such that he would look forward to the day when the drought would break, when he could start to build up his property again from the remnants of his flocks; but suitable conditions are not offering today for. people affected by the drought. Prices that are obtaining for the commodities which they have to sell and the values of the stock that they would be able to build up after the drought have been reduced by circumstances completely beyond their control to the stage where the future is so bleak that many of them are giving serious consideration to abandoning their properties. Although some temporary measures have been provided by the Budget, in view of the extent of the critical situation which exists the amount allocated in the Budget is completely inadequate. 
There is virtually a national disaster, with many of these people - not only those whose families have been on the land for generations but those who have taken to the land a means of livelihood - finding through a combination of seasonal conditions and economic conditions that they are deprived of any hope for the future. The markets which have yet to be developed are the ones closer to home. It is my firm view that too little has been done to develop markets in Asia. Last night I mentioned mainland China and spoke of the attitude that the Government has taken to trade with that country and to acknowledging the position of mainland China in relation to the United Nations. The Government's attitude has created in China an hostility towards Australia, even though the Chinese have been purchasing a considerable amount of our wheat. The reevaluation of which I have spoken is of very great importance not only to the Government; it is important also that the Government should take the people of Australia into its confidence and tell them the truth rather than cover up many of these grave situations which have to be faced. 1 should like to say a few words about my home State of Tasmania and mention what is happening there as a result of the Government's fiscal policy. I am quite certain that Tasmania has been overlooked by the Government when it has been formulating its overall policy. Tasmania, being an island State is experiencing conditions that cannot be equated to other States. We in Tasmania have the disadvantage of having to rely on shipping and, to a small extent, aircraft to handle our transportation to our market. The ever-increasing cost of sea and air freight charges is making very deep inroads into our capacity to compete not only on mainland markets, to which we have been able to export much of our production, . but also, and particularly, on world markets. We are finding that in many areas of production we have costed ourselves out of our markets. The value of our superfine wool has declined to a greater extent than that produced on the mainland. Our dairy producers, who have been following a long range policy aimed at developing high quality herds and high production of milk, butter and other products, are finding great difficulty in obtaining ready markets. The added cost of freighting across Bass Strait, along our only lifeline, is creating a burden that is having a really bad effect in Tasmania. 
So far as population increase in concerned, Tasmania is not able even to hold its own with the overall population increase for the Commonwealth. This is lessening Tasmania's relative significance as an equal State of the Commonwealth. In addition, we are going to find it more and more difficult to maintain our present proportion of the Commonwealth's population. 
We still have some pride left. We would have 4 or 5 other choices before we would accept ultraconservatism of the Victorians. We have to draw the line somewhere. One of the worst features of the situation facing Tasmania is the migration of young people from that State. Statistics for a 5 year period show that in the 15 to 25 years age group there was an average of 1,100 people more per year leaving Tasmania than coming into it, and that included migrants. We are faced with a similar situation with respect to migrants who come to Tasmania. We can produce a pretty attractive brochure aimed at attracting migrants to Tasmania. There is no doubt that our climate is similar to that in many European areas. Tasmania has many advantages. It has a quieter way of living. It is said that the rats do not race as hard in Tasmania as they do in other parts of the Commonwealth. There are attractions such as beautiful mountains and rivers and all sorts of sporting facilities are available. But it seems that these things will not hold the migrants that we need. 
They come to the island and find that the job opportunities do not hold as much for them as those offered in mainland States. 
These are all very serious matters affecting the future of Tasmania. Another important matter to which I have to draw attention in this Commonwealth Parliament is the great losses being suffered in our rural areas. Many of our industries, timber, dairying, fat lambs, pork and the like, are find' ing much greater difficulty in competing on mainland and overseas markets. We have to have assistance from the Commonwealth because we are unable to raise further finance with the State. Individual payments facing Tasmanian people as as high as or higher than those facing people in the other States, lt has become a great burden for our people to meet the very high and growing charges for rates in our municipal and city areas. High interest is involved in the loans required for development purposes such as housing and the like. All the facilities that have to be provided by local government result in the imposition of extra charges on the Tasmanian people and they are finding them a very irksome burden to carry. For Tasmania to hold its own as an equal State a much bigger scale of Commonwealth assistance will have to be granted in one way or another. 
It would be a great advantage if Tasmania had a proper proportion of the money diverted by the Commonwealth - and quite rightly so - for assistance for railway and other projects in other parts of Australia. I refer to such projects as the east-west railway, the railway standardisation scheme and beef roads. These have given a tremendous fillip to the other States but Tasmania has not received its proper proportion of these funds. 
The Commonwealth must give fairly early assistance for the upgrading -of our rail system and the development of our port .in the north of Tasmania. It should assist the Tasmanian Government to extend the railway from Launceston to Bell Bay. We must use our rail facilities to the fullest extent. We want to develop our transportation system so that we can bring our goods right to the seaside in order to take full advantage of the container method of handling cargo. This would help in getting our products on to the markets at competitive prices. There is a certain amount of pressure being applied by private transport operators, truck operators, in Tasmania who would like to see the activities of the railway system curtailed and confined to the carrying of freight on the more or less unpayable sections of our transport system. This pressure must be resisted because railways have a very important role to play in Tasmania. It would be a retrograde step if railway operations were reduced. 
I would say that the main problem facing our railway system at the moment, is the cost of this very important extension from Launceston to Bell Bay. We want to be able to feed goods in from other parts of the State to this port, which could be a central export port allowing us to take advantage of the container system. 
Sitting suspended from  12.45  to  2.15  p.m. 
Before the suspension of the sitting I had spoken of some of the real problems facing Tasmania. These problems are even more acute than the serious ones facing the rest of the Commonwealth. I draw the attention of the Senate to the great need that exists for sharing in correct proportion funds which have been made available to other States for the upgrading of the railway systems and the beef toads. I have pointed out that' Tasmania's only lifeline or trade line across Bass Strait is by shipping and, to a smaller extent, by air. The impact of freight increases on Tasmania's cost structure is a serious disadvantage. Two increases have occurred in air charges over the last month or so and only yesterday there was a further increase in the cost of petrol in Tasmania. All these charges are putting an undue burden on the already critical situation which exists in our State. 
There is no reason for this differential between Tasmania and the mainland States because Tasmania has products which are of a very high quality. The climate is to our advantage, because we can grow very succulent foodstuffs. Our baby beef is equal to if not better than that raised . in other parts of Australia which do not have the same type of soil and the same rainfall. In Tasmania we have early lambing and the spring lambs are equal to the famous New Zealands lambs. Not only that, but we have a climate in which, we can develop industries such as the pheasant industry which is growing and which can supply the mainland. We have an abundance of rivers and streams and a new industry there could fill the specialised markets with our inland fish - the Tasmanian trout. Tasmania should have a better share of the Australian and overseas market for its excellent Tasmania cider to give an outlet to the apple industry. 
We need as much assistance as we can get at the Federal level in trade promotion for Tasmanian products which will help to obtain an even greater share of the markets on the mainland than we have at the present time. As I have repeatedly said we have to direct our eyes towards South East Asian markets, to Indonesia and the Philippines. Japan has become a very big market for Australia and has replaced the United Kingdom as far as our exports are concerned. Tasmania has high quality goods but it needs to obtain just that extra assistance. I would like to bring quite a number of other points before the Senate to show that Tasmania, being an equal State in this federation, has a just claim to its share of the so-called affluence which has been bragged about by the Government. Tasmania is not getting its full share because of the factors I have already outlined. The situation is not only static but it is showing signs of deterioration. 
I support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  in condemning this Budget as being a Budget which would appear, on the surface, to be honouring a promise of tax concessions for the lower and middle income groups whereas, in fact, the people who really need the assistance - the family man and the person on the average wage - will be receiving in the vicinity of $1 a week concession. The other charges which have been imposed by indirect taxation will more than take away any concession which was made. The condemnation which has been widely directed at this Budget is, in the opinion of the Australian Labor Party, justified. Members of the ALP give their support to the amendment as moved. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be added'  (Senator Murphy's amendment)  be added. 
1 want to associate myself with the remarks that have already been made about this afternoon's incident. I was also involved in it. I believe that inadequate arrangements were made. I believe someone should have had the responsibility to inform the Opposition Whip of the situation so that he in turn would have been in possession of information to pass on to other senators. I went downstairs to the 3 committee rooms. 1 heard indirectly that these were the rooms in which the committees were to meet. I did this because I wanted to acquaint myself with the formalities, associated with these committees. I went along to the largest committee room in which Estimates Committee A was meeting, From the big crowd outside the door and the number of people inside the room, it appeared that if another person went into the room it would become overcrowded, so I went along to find another room in which a committee was meeting. But by this time 1 found that the doors to these rooms were closed and a messenger or an officer of the Senate was standing outside each door. 
I believe that the teething troubles facing these Estimates Committees might soon pass. But, nevertheless, I want to add my support to the protest which has been made about the inadequate arrangements which were made for those members of the Senate who have a right to participate in these committees, as observers, if they wish. I may also say that because I believe in the committee system, I would like to see it succeed now that it has commenced. But I believe that the committees will have to show a lot more signs of viability than they did today when large numbers of very highly paid public servants were standing in the corridors outside the rooms. They saw the indignity of senators walking from room to room to gain entry after having been assured that they had a right to observe and participate in the committee hearings. That was not a very nice situation which confronted senators. 
This matter has been raised tonight early in the life of the committees. I suggest to those associated with the committees that there should not be a repetition of what happened today. I regret that it happened. I think that it is one of the worst situations that 1 have seen arise in what is usually the very well ordered and intelligently administered Department of the Senate. I hope that a similar occurrence will not happen and that more satisfactory arrangements will be made in the future. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Is the Minister aware that the Prime Minister of New Zealand,  Sir Keith  Holyoake, speaking today at a reception given to  Mr Geoffrey  Rippon. the United Kingdom's Common Market negotiator, said that New Zealand is facing the most testing period in its economic life and that, without safeguards, British entry into the Common Market would be a disaster for the New Zealand economy? Will the Minister for Primary Industry or the Prime Minister make a statement to the people of Australia, particularly to the Tasmanian farmers who produce and export products similar to those exported by New Zealand and to the same market, outlining the safeguards to be built into the Australian economy to prevent a similar fate to that feared by New Zealanders befalling the primary producers of Australia? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry aware of the growing menace which faces the whole of Australia's eastern coastline and which is caused by the plague of starfish which are attacking the coastline from the coral reefs of the Great Barrier Reef in the north to the abalone shellfish grounds in southern Tasmania? Is he aware that a newly found abalone bed off the south eastern Tasmanian coast has been devastated by starfish up to 26 inches in diameter and that experienced fishing authorities consider that the starfish could exterminate the surviving abalone in Tasmanian waters? Will the Minister direct the attention of the Marine Research Division of the Australian Fisheries Council to this threat posed by the starfish with a view to extending to Tasmanian waters the eradication measures being used on the Great Barrier Reef? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the 
Minister for Primary Industry. Yesterday I asked a question concerning the fact that giant crown of thorns starfish were attacking abalone shellfish in south eastern Tasmania waters. It was with regret that 1 learned that so little was being done on the Great Barrier Reef and in other parts of Australia to prevent the devastation caused' by these predatory starfish. I ask: Will the Minister draw the attention of the Minister for Primary Industry to a report of 22nd September under a Washington dateline to the effect that a Bill authorising the expenditure of $US4.5m for research into ways of controlling the crown of thorns starfish has been passed by the Congress of the United States of America? Will the Government give consideration to the provision of a research grant to enable marine biologists or some research scientists to go to the United States to work with those engaged in devising a method of eradication of this marine menace? 
asked the Minister  representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the Commonwealth has refused to issue a visa for entry to Australia by the famous and highly respected American Negro comedian and anti-war satirist, Dick Gregory. 
As  Mr Gregory  was coming to Australia as one of the main speakers in Sydney for the Vietnam Moratorium, to be held on 18th, 19th and 20th September, is the Government's refusal to grant a visa politically inspired. 
Will the Prime Minister state on what grounds the visa was refused, and will he give instructions immediately for a review to be made of the refusal. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe Prime Minister has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Commonwealth did refuse a visa to an American named Dick Gregory. 
Yes. No non-Australian has any inalienable right to enter Australia and the Government sees no reason for granting entry to aliens with a record of agitation and arrest in their own countries in order to assist groups such as those organising the so called moratorium. 
1 will not give instructions for a review of the refusal to be made. 
This debate has developed to a stage where I think everyone will agree that the increases proposed in the Budget in the field of social services, particularly as they affect aged people, are inadequate. We have heard 

 Senator Davidson express the view that he was disappointed that the proposed increases were not greater but that he thought they were as much as the country could afford. I join issue with  Senator Davidson  and ask him why we have not had a proper, complete survey of the problem and of the plight of the section of the community to which this debate is directed. He said that he doubted that a formula could be devised which would give sufficient in the way of pension to meet the needs of the different sections of the community involved. He went on then to outline the categories. 
I approach this from an entirely different angle because it is my view that, despite other priorities, there is an obligation on the community towards our aged people to ensure that their standard of living is held at a level at which their basic requirements are provided, and that the inflationary trend which is continuing in Australia is equated periodically with the pension to allow them to share in the so-called affluent society in which we are living. When one comes in contact with people who, through no fault of their own, are living in single rooms and paying rent, and people whose lives have been trimmed to monotony, one can see that there is a great need for an expansion of their interests and for the provision of their basic requirements. 
In an article in the Melbourne 'Age' of 2nd September last David Wilson directed attention to the fact that 4,000 age pensioners in Melbourne are waiting to be admitted to 2 homes and hospitals for the aged. He said that many of the pensioners will have to wait for up to 5 years before being admitted and that, in some cases, the waiting period exceeds their life expectancy. Let me direct the attention of  Senator Davidson  and of the Government to the background of these people who are seeking admission to homes and hospitals for the aged and at present are unable to obtain entry, and to what is happening to them. What action has the Government taken in this Budget to deal with problems of this nature? The article provided details of the plight of some among the 4,000 pensioners in Melbourne to whom I have referred. David Wilson said in his article: 
Doctors last night expressed their concern at the mounting waiting lists following a report that a 77-year-old  World  War veteran could not be admitted to a public hospital. 
This may be the exception that tests the rule; but in a society such as ours -  Senator Davidson  claimed that we were the pioneers in social services - a case such as this should immediately bring an explanation. Throughout the community there are people whose cases, as far as I can see, never come to the surface. No provision is made for them to obtain the assistance that they need so badly. The article goes on to say: 
A general practitioner said last night that an 80-year-old man died after a stroke because there was no home or hospital to which he could be sent. 
People like that were not necessarily wasteful during their early lives. Many of them reach a state of poverty because they were unable to save from their salaries or wages. The point I am making is that, in view of the development of our resources and the claim that we are an affluent society, we should be able to give more thought and a higher level of priority to this section of the community. So we accuse the Government of inadequacy in allowing for an increase of only 50c a week under the Budget. That is grossly inadequate. 
A most interesting address was given by Professor Downing. In regard to this very important section of the community, he made certain points that should be enlarged upon. The Government has been very tardy in trying to find out the depth and width of the problem of the aged and the needy. Professor Downing stressed that superannuitants are being continually deprived of their equity and that there is a severe reduction in people's standard of living as soon as they give up their regular employment. We are living in a society in which there is compulsory retirement at 65 years of age for many people. 
Over the last 25 years we have seen the inflationary process go on. On the figures given by Professor Downing, the pension as a proportion of the average income has been reduced from 27 per cent to 21.2 per cent. Many of these people are unable to earn $10 a week or, if they are married couples, $17.50 a week. Although provision is made through fringe benefits to help many of these people, there is still this hard core of people who are tucked away in places where they never come to the public notice but where they need extra assistance very badly. I believe that it was on their behalf that people throughout this country were absolutely shocked by the paucity of the amount provided under this Budget. Professor Downing pointed out that people who set out to save out of their income made sacrifices in the belief that they could make provision for their old age, but they were unable to cope with the growing and continuing inflation. 
Often comparisons are made. I believe that it is a ridiculous practice to compare today's pensions with those of 20 years ago. We must remember that the people who are 60 years of age or older today were born in the first decade of this century - in the days when the first award wage, the Harvester award, provided for 2 guineas a week. The average family was much larger in those days than it is today. Educational facilities were not as readily available. These people who comprise quite a big proportion of the community today lacked many of the advantages of modern society. The economic circumstances of those days made it practically imperative that, if schooling was available to them, they leave school at the minimum age of 14 years and go out to work in order to supplement the family income. 
No. They must have been able to cope with much less food, lt was easier for them to live, according to the argument that is put up today. Those of us who remember the cost of living index, of those days realise that, after a person bought flour, meat, potatoes and a few other things that were on that index, very little was left out of the 42s a week which was the basic wage in those days. 
Yet statements are made that people who grew up in the economy of those days and in those circumstances should have been saving for their old age. There is a sort of stigma attached to them because they have reached old age now but they have not any nest egg. This is equivalent to the thinking of those days when the only alternative was the privately conducted poor house. We have come a long way from the days of the poor house in which people were asked to work and earn the amount of food they were given there. To transfer people from an institution such as the poor house to a back room in which they can spend the declining years of their lives, which many of them are doing as these reports show, is an inexcusable policy for a government which, on the other hand, claims that it has developed the economy of this country, that we have attained a high standard of living and that we have an affluent society. The fact that these extremes continue to exist is a very grave reflection on us all. 
It is my view that there should be a complete reappraisal of our whole attitude towards social services. It is necessary to realise that the people who have contributed to building up the wealth of this nation, whether they have contributed through the use of their brains or through the use of their muscles, have made a considerable contribution to the development of Australia as a viable country and should be able to expect the attitude of the rest of the community to be that they can live their lives with a modicum of comfort and with their fear of being without the necessities of life reduced to the absolute minimum. In addition, as science and technology improve and advance - and the Press, the television and the other news media have reported the enormous advances of man conquering his environment and spending countless millions to send rockets into space to explore other parts of the universe - aged people living in a world where such wealth abounds should have a little rub off on them. My view is that the standard of pensions in this country is inadequate and that there should be a complete re-appraisal of what it would cost to set a standard below which no person should fall. If that were the accepted norm, people who had saved or who had contributed to a national superannuation scheme, if one were implemented, could gather the benefits of that in their old age. I believe that a basic level should be established. It has not been established in the past. It should be an accepted thing in our society. 
We should look at this subject anew. The Government should be in the mood to accept the big challenge that confronts it. The challenge is to the whole society. During the last month or so, since the Budget was introduced, the reactions to it have been that the Government was mean in giving so little to alleviate the plight of such a substantial part of the community which needs social service assistance. Looking at the whole picture, my view is that we could afford a much more generous approach. People in other sections of the community are able to protect their interests. They are able to get a share of the country's prosperity. They are able to find avenues of entertainment. They are able to get their full slice of the cake. The less fortunate - the aged and the needy - are not able to do that because they are of an older generation. There is a tremendous gap between the modern way of living and the way in which older people were brought up. They are finding it difficult to communicate with younger people. The less they are able to communicate the more they travel in their own small circles where life can be very dull for them. The Opposition has moved an amendment that contains a series of propositions. They are: 
the increases proposed are inadequate; 
social service payments generally are inadequate to maintain ah acceptable standard of living; 
steps should be taken immediately to eliminate poverty; and 
a contributory national superannuation system should be established and the means test eliminated. 
None of the things proposed in  Senator Fitzgerald's  amendment is beyond the capacity of this country. 
Well, I am optimist enough to think- 
Even so, I still say that I am optimistic enough to think that the Government should be able to justify an increase in social service payments every time it is able to justify the expenditure of large sums in negative avenues. A lot of our national revenue is spent in negative avenues. I believe that in a society such as ours, in which the Government claims to be generous with its social service payments, to be an example to other countries and to be giving our citizens a fair go, much more emphasis should be placed on those who need government assistance. Therefore, we believe that the Government stands condemned for the paucity of the increases that have been provided in the Bill. We hope that the Government will implement as soon as possible a complete review of social service payments to give greater hope, a much improved standard of living and a much greater dignity to those people who need our help. 
Does the Leader of the Government in the Senate recall a dangerous reactionary political epidemic of the 1950s known as McCarthysism which spread in the United States creating an atmosphere of fear and hysteria and which affected the internal stability of that country? 
I would like to ask a question of you,  Mr President.  Would you be prepared to seek for me the leave of the Senate to have the photographs which are under discussion laid on the table of the Senate? 
Has the Leader of the Government in the Senate seen a report in today's Issue of the Melbourne Sun' that there have been 923 increases in prices in the first half of this year, and that every week there have been increases in the prices of SO lines of foodstuffs? Will the Minister responsible consider urgently ways and means of stabilising prices so that the consumers of Australia can be relieved of such grave exploitation? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI have not seen the report to which the honourable senator has referred. 1 do not walk away from the situation that there have been increases in the prices of commodities. I do not know the order of magnitude of those increases. I think that the burden of the honourable senator's point is that there is an inordinate number of increases and that something should be done about it. I do not know whether he is suggesting, for instance, that there should be price control. He did not seem to me to get himself into that position. All I can say to him is that in my speech on the Budget there was reference to an increase in the consumer price index to the time the speech was made. The figures that I quoted - they were supplied by the Bureau of Census and Statistics - indicated that the consumer price index had not risen to the extent that wages had risen. I think that is the classic situation. Provided that increased productivity continues and provided that the average weekly earnings increase at a higher rate than that at which the prices- of commodities increase, the situation is not critical. However, I think the question rates an answer from the Treasurer so 1 will put it to him for a considered reply. 
I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate whether he saw in today's 'Canberra Times' a copy of a photograph taken by a News and Information Bureau photographer at the Moratorium rally outside Parliament House on 18th September in- which a telephoto lens was used to falsify a picture to be used for the purpose of deceiving the Australian public? In view of the gravity of such a practice- 
Senate Practice' say that a senator asking a question and quoting from a newspaper must give an undertaking that the allegation made is true. I ask you to rule the question out of order. 
I address a question to the Minister for Civil Aviation who represents the Minister for the Interior in this place. Will the Minister inform his colleague, the Minister for the Interior, that there is deep resentment among the staff of the News and Information Bureau over the Government's political direction given to the Director of the Bureau that  Mr Whitlam  should be photographed near a Vietcong flag? Who asked the Director of the News and Information Bureau to photograph the Canberra Moratorium proceedings? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Postmaster-General. By way of preface I refer to the excellent Australian Broadcasting Commission television programme Profiles of Power' - a weekly presentation of personalities from different sections of public life in Australia - and the fact that comments made during this programme are given considerable publicity in the daily Press. In view of the wide and growing interest in this programme, will the Postmaster-General endeavour to have the ABC arrange for the same programmes to be screened in Tasmania as in other States, even if this would mean having 2 programmes in the first week in order to synchronise them. At present Tasmania is a week behind Victoria and New South Wales. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to a statement in the 'Australian' of today's date attributed to United States Senate Republican Leader Scott that the present Administration has been eminently successful in winding down the war in Vietnam and in assuring the American  people that America's involvement in this tragic venture is quickly coming to an end, as well as his prediction that a major favourable announcement will be made by  President  Nixon in the next few weeks? Is there some responsible person in Australia to tell the people of Australia that Australia's involvement in this tragic venture is quickly coming to an end? 
1 direct my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate who also is Minister for Supply. In view of the recent withdrawal of participation by the United States of America in the communications system known as Project Mallard., which was to have been a global military communications scheme involving an overall cost to the countries involved of $ 1,000m, can he say how much has been expended by Australia and the British and Canadian Governments who are partners in the project? Is Australia to be compensated for its expenditure on this costly but now abandoned scheme? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONrt is true that the United States of America has indicated its intention to withdraw from the Mallard proposal which, without being too precise at question time, is a proposed communications system, [t is true that Australia is playing a very modest part in the scheme which, of course, has plenty of pluses for Australia because of the application of technology studies. Ft is too early at this point of time for me to indicate what will be the ultimate result. Discussions are currently going on with the other nations involved in the project as to what may be done in view of the proposed American withdrawal, particularly as some expenditure has been entered into in Australia. That expenditure will not necessarily all be lost because of the experience, practice and training gained in the applicable science. Also, studies are proceeding to ascertain whether there may be some variation as a result of the American action. As a matter of fact, I have called for an information paper on the implications of the American action. As soon as I am in a position to give a more detailed answer as to what the ultimate will be in relation to the Mallard proposal, I will most certainly put it down in the Senate. 
My question is to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. No doubt he has seen Press reports about a presidential panel advising President Nixon of the United States of America that the call-up of youth in that country is costly, inequitable and divisive as a means of recruiting men for the armed forces, and introduces needless uncertainty into the lives of all young Americans? When can we expect the Australian Government to abandon the national service scheme which is also divisive, costly and inequitable, and to adjust the pay conditions of all servicemen so as to restore the traditional Australian volunteer defence force? 
Yes, I have seen such a report. I am bound to point out that the situation in relation to national service in the United States of America may well be entirely different from the situation in Australia. Also the honourable senator does not make it clear whether he is talking in terms of providing personnel for the permanent forces on the one hand or whether he is speaking of recruiting for national service training. These are two separate things to a very large degree. The whole principle behind national service training in Australia is that we should at all times have a sufficient number of our young people of eligible age with enough basic training to defend Australia. The situation in this country in relation to recruiting people can, as I have said, be entirely different from the situation in the United States in respect of recruiting, as I understood the implication of the question, for the permanent forces in that country. In any event, I am being invited to make a comment on a matter of Government policy, and it is not appropriate to do this at question time. 
Some time ago I asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General whether a reduction could be made in the costs to pensioners for telephone rentals which were raised as a consequence of the provision in the Budget. Has the Minister any information relating to this matter? 
The one-third reduction in rental will apply to approximately 190,000 subscribers for whom savings will range from $7.66 to $15.66 per year, depending on the area in which a subscriber resides. Those reductions in rental, the cost to revenue of which will be over S2.5m per year, represent a considerable saving to qualified persons. As I recall it  Senator O'Byrne  went on further in his question and asked whether there would be a further extension of the existing telephone rental concession. I have information that this was considered by the Government in the review of the whole field of social services which was carried out prior to the preparation of the Budget but on this occasion it was not found possible to make any changes in this area. 
Is the Leader of the 
Government aware that in the past  12  months  1,000  items of groceries have been increased in price by manufacturers, that increases are taking place at the rateat  50  items a week and that meat and groceries have shown the greatest rise? Has the Government made any move for a Commonwealth and State arrangement to reach an agreement that the States shall introduce some form of price control to counter this daily robbery of the wage and salary earner and those on fixed incomes? 
 My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Expressions of considerable concern have been made by people in the wheat industry and wheat growing areas throughout Australia about the likely loss to Canada of a considerable market for wheat in China as a consequence of Canadia's diplomatic recognition of the Republic of China, coupled with problems created by the drought, the quota delivery scheme, the cost spiral and inflation. Will the Minister immediately consult his colleague, the Minister for Trade and Industry, and attempt to negotiate a longterm wheat contract with the Republic of China which would assist in getting the wheat growing industry off the hook? At the same time will he give the marketing authority an assurance that the Australian Government will support the application of China for admission to the United Nations Organisation? 
I refer to clause 3, which reads: 
The First Schedule to the Principal Act is amended by omitting items 74M and 74N. 
That refers to the proposal mentioned in the second reading speech in which the Minister for Supply  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson),  who represents the Treasurer  (Mr Bury),  said: 
It is proposed that the specific exemption of goods for use by British Commonwealth Pacific Airlines Ltd - an airline no longer operating - and Qantas Airways Ltd be removed with effect from 20th August 1970. Other provisions of the sales tax law exempt such items of equipment as aircraft and aircraft parts, servicing equipment and tractors for towing aircraft. But in respect of goods not so exempted, it is considered that Qantas Airways Ltd should be in the same position as other airlines. Qantas already is liable to Commonwealth taxes other than sales tax. 
I believe that the Government is imposing an extra and an obnoxious burden on Qantas. This is an example of killing the goose that lays the golden egg. I believe that Qantas has been doing a splendid job for Australia. It has had to be able to compete in the very keen business of overseas airlines. BCPA has gone out of business. Qantas is engaged in a most competitive field of industry. The Government is purposely imposing greater burdens on Qantas. It appears that the Government is draining every skerrick that it can out of such instrumentalities. As a consequence, these organisations and instrumentalities find it difficult to plan and balance their budgets. We are completely opposed to the treatment to be meted to Oantas by this clause. We oppose it vigorously. Although we will not call for a vote in the Committee stage, we will call for a vote on the motion for the third reading of the Bill and divide on it. This is an expression of the very great concern that we have for the way in which Qantas is being treated by the imposition of these extra charges, thereby reducing its capacity to maintain the very high standards that it has in its competition with other keen international airlines. 
Bill, I think  Senator Willesee  raised this issue. The Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  was present and intervened in the debate to point out the reasons why Qantas Airways Ltd is included in this provision. The points that the Minister made are now documented in Hansard. I notice that the Minister is present again. If he wants to supplement that information,, no doubt he will respond. The intentions of the legislation are quite clear. I think the points he made about Qantas were quite appropriate. Qantas Ls a most successful operator. The Minister pointed out that the Qantas budget comes clown regularly and that there has - been no request for revision or for help. That would suggest that Qantas is not in any need of special assistance. In fact, he made the point, as I. heard him, that there was every justification for the proposal that Qantas be included in the provisions of the Bill. I erin see that he wants to supplement what he said. There is nothing as perfect as getting a comment from the Minister concerned. I will give way to him. to give him an opportunity to respond. 
I am sure that the Minister for Air and everyone else will be sorry to hear of the accident which befell a Royal Australian Air Force F-4E Phantom jet aircraft at the Amberley Air Force Base yesterday. Does the Minister have a statement to make on this unfortunate occurrence? What arc the arrangements for the replacement of the leased aircraft? ls it true that the RAAF could face an expenditure of $2.3m for a replacement aircraft? 
Has the Leader of the Government in the Senate seen today's Press reports that the Central Intelligence Agency of the United States of America has told President Nixon that it doubts  whether the Saigon regime can survive without the presence of a big American military force? Did the CIA also say that a resurgence of Vietcong strength could be expected as America pulls out? Does the Government believe that Australian troops should be forced to hang on for so long that they may have to fight a rearguard action to escape the inevitable? Does not this lend even greater urgency to withdrawing all Australian troops now? 
The objective of this Bill is to provide assistance to manufacturers of bountiable tractors additional to that now being provided under the Agricultural Tractors Bounty Act 1966. At the outset let me say that although we are supporting this measure we believe that it reflects the very critical situation that exists in this section of secondary industry which  depends on  primary industry in Australia. Not only is the situation developing into a crisis in the industry associated with the manufacture and distribution of tractors and other farm equipment, but it is a prelude to what we believe could become a national crisis. We have pointed out over the years that the inflationary process which has been going on and by which the primary industries have been costed out of their traditional markets would have this effect. But, just through fortuitous circumstances, we have had the discovery of minerals which has tided us over the foreign exchange situation. By our exports of minerals we have been able to adjust our economic position temporarily - or more than temporarily. 
At the same time the situation on the primary industrial level has deteriorated. In practically every field of primary industry there is a crisis. The wool growers have found that. Even in today's Press we read of a further deterioration in the price of wool. The problems facing the wool growers are such that the future of this great and basic Australian industry is threatened. The wool growers throughout Australia do not know where to go next. These are things which are accumulating at the primary industry level and which are being reflected in secondary industry. It is on that level mat we are discussing this Agricultural Tractors. Bounty Bill. 
The Government, in presenting this legislation, said that the industry was facing serious damage from import competition. But that is only part of the picture. The ability of people on the land to see any future in the wheat industry, orcharding or any of the other primary industries, to be able to invest in the future, to borrow money in order to finance the purchase of agricultural equipment such as tractors and to embark on developmental projects on their properties is reaching the stage where an industry such as the tractor industry is the first one to feel the full impact. 
Financing the tractor industry over the next 18 months or so will be quite a costly process. This is only a palliative. It does not give this industry any continuity to enable planning for the future, for the simple reason that the parts of primary industry that it is serving have such uncertainty. Let me refer to some of the statistics of the industry. In Western Australia one of the companies that we are considering - Chamberlain Industries Pty Hd - was employing 1,650 persons last year and now it has only 800 employees. It has lost sales worth up to $10m. Its overall losses have amounted to $750,000. That amount cannot be absorbed. The future of this industry in Western Australia is very gravely jeopardised. Another part of this industry is the International Harvester Co. at Geelong in Victoria, lt will have to dismiss 300 men. 
This is added to the fact that there is a very critical situation in primary industry which is affecting the sale of not only tractors but also agricultural machinery, fencing materials, water conservation equipment, trucks and utilities and all the other ancillary services that are supplied to people on the land, who are finding it impossible not only to finance development work but even to pay their way. In addition to this, of course, primary industry is faced with many other problems, such as the drought and low wool prices. There is a crisis in the wool industry. The dairy industry is going through one of its worst periods. People engaged in the poultry industry are at a loss to know what their future holds. These people who have orchards growing apples and pears throughout Victoria and Tasmania have no guarantee that their future has any promise. Also there ls a matter which has often been refered to in the Senate, the plight of the pea and bean industry as it affects Tasmania. 
Implicit in this temporary expedient introduced by this Bill is the need to solve the problems of the tractor industry, lt is important to remember that 60 per cent of our export income has been derived from primary industries. This industry is one of the main ancillaries to primary industry as it supplies the wherewithal for the cultivation and intense use of our land. But the industry has declined to the extent where we have to subsidise it further. In addition to the bounty already being paid to the industry it is considered necessary to subsidise the industry further. This must bring home to the Government that its policy with regard to this most important part of our economy has failed. 
1 am not suggesting that we stop manufacturing them, but we will find a situation arising when manufacturers will not be able to continue production. In the second reading speech on this Bill it is stated that the industry has been facing serious damage from import competition. But despite the fact that a considerable bounty is paid already to the 2 companies which are to be assisted by this measure, they cannot see any hope for the future and are left with 2 alternatives. One is that they close down because their market is diminishing so rapidly; the other is that overseas companies take them over. They are the 2 alternatives that face this industry. 
The point is that they are considered to be Australian companies. They are subsidised as Australian companies. To contradict what the honourable senator has just said I refer to the Tariff Board's interim report on agricultural tractors in 1966 which states that these were considered to be Australian industries. The report states: 
Two Australian manufacturers, Chamberlain Industries Pty Ltd and International Harvester Co. of Australia Pty Ltd produce agricultural wheeled tractors. Both these manufacturers were producing tractors at the time of the Board's previous inquiry . . . 
So they are considered to be Australian companies. The Australian content of their shareholding is not divulged in the report. The seriousness of the threat to this industry is illustrated by the fact that it is found necessary to add an additional bounty to that recommended by the Tariff Board, without there being any foreseeable solution of the problem. The additional bounty to be applied by this measure is just an expediency. It will not give added security to this important industry. The honourable senator has said that overseas capital is involved in these companies, but that is typical of what happens in so many industries. 
After all, there are big advantages in mass production. If the Australian companies can engage in mass production they can supply their clients with a tractor that will compare favourably with imported tractors. These Australian tractor manufacturing companies employ considerable numbers of Australians. Chamberlain Industries Pty Ltd. as I have said, was employing 1,650 people in Western Australia. They, together with their wives and dependants, would make a considerable contribution towards decentralisation. Other people would be associated with supplying services to the people engaged in the tractor manufacturing industry. It is a very important segment of our economy and it warrants very careful consideration at present. 
Although the Opposition supports this Bill, it feels that not enough accent has been placed on the overall crisis facing primary industries, in the first place, and on the repercussions on the secondary industries that depend for their market on primary industries. The effect can multiply in that way and have a very serious effect on our economy. The assistance to be granted under this measure is to be authorised only until 30th June 1972, subject to the possibility of earlier termination. As we gauge the trends at present, there will not be an earlier termination and it is quite likely that further assistance will be required to maintain the industry as a viable proposition. 
The Government has promised that it will review the situation to determine the effect of this assistance and to adjust the rate of payment. It has said that a further Tariff Board report will be submitted on the question of long term assistance to the industry. I believe that the tractor manufacturing companies, one in Victoria and one in Western Australia, are worthy of support because of the role they have played over the years in supplying balance for our overall economy. In addition, they have been employers of labour, producing from our own raw materials a product that has been of great assistance to our primary industries. Every effort should be made to find an alternative to a palliative such as this measure. 
Through such an alternative we should seek to give confidence to the industry. It should be made to feel that there is in Australia continuity in its market and room for expansion in the future. The industry should be able to take its place in a community such as ours which is based on the primary industries. The tractor manufacturing industry should have no threat to its future. We want to sound a warning to the Government that unless something more substantial is done than the temporary palliative offered by this Bill, these two very fine parts of our economy could be threatened. 
We suggest that the whole of all our primary industry should be reviewed. New markets should be encouraged. The effect of the loss of our European markets should be considered. We should be looking for new markets in neighbouring countries. We have to find a way of financing new markets and arranging an exchange of our goods with the people who need them. There are millions of people in Asia who would like to buy our primary products if they could but they cannot finance their purchases. We have to find a way of financing such sales in our natural market - the countries close by. 
The Government is not attempting to do this, lt is tied up with other extraneous things. In my view the Government is alienating the people throughout Asia rather than making friends of them. Those countries are potential markets for Australia, and the Government is missing out on the chance to make Australia a viable and substantial trading country. It is losing sight of the fact that our old traditional markets can go as quickly as snow melts in the sunlight. A lot of people are under the impression that the old ties of the British Empire and the British Commonwealth will continue into the future, that arrangements will be made to soften the effect of the entry of Great Britain into the European Economic Community and that Australia will get some of the crumbs from Great Britain. It is my view that Australia will be left very much out in the cold if Great Britain enters the Community. We will be forced to find markets nearby and to make economic arrangements to exchange our products. 
This Bill highlights the crisis of our primary industries. People on the land cannot afford to buy the products of these tractor companies because men on the land are faced virtually with bankruptcy. The Government should not allow the situation to deteriorate so far that these people will fade out gradually. Yet this is what the Government is permitting to happen. It is offering this temporary bounty. It is sweeping the problem under the carpet and is not facing up to the really critical situation that confronts people on the. land. 
The Government has the responsibility, yet  Senator Young  asked what we of the Opposition would do. We would take a very different approach to that adopted by the Government. The Government is not adopting positive measures but is just drifting along. It is enjoying windfalls along the way; it has been very fortunate in many ways. The discovery of very rich mineral resources has tided the Government over for a period. Nevertheless the Government still has to confront this situation that is on its doorstep. The people on the land, the primary producers, are on the verge of bankruptcy, whether we like it or not. All sections of primary industry have lost confidence in their ability to find markets for their products and to pay their way. It is only a matter of time before they go bankrupt. That is the only logical conclusion to reach if they cannot obtain the cost of production for their goods. The presentation of this Bill is an indication that those who supply goods such as equipment for cultivation are facing difficulties. 
Debate interrupted. 
On behalf of  Senator Murphy  and at his request, I move: 
That there be referred to the Standing Committee on Primary and Secondary Industry and Trade the following matter - The problems of the rural industries of Australia now and in the foreseeable  future.  In particular the Committee is requested to - 
Recommend, as soon as possible, what immediate action should be taken to meet the existing crises in the rural industry: and 
recommend what long-term measures should be taken to re-structure and achieve  the  utmost efficiency in the rural industry and to ensure as far as can be, the prosperity of the rural industry and of the communities based on it. 
To illustrate the incompetence of the Government in dealing with this problem, I refer to a motion for the appointment of a royal commission which was moved by the Australian Democratic Labor Party. On 14th May last the Senate was asked to debate the following motion: 
That the Senate is of opinion that a Royal Commission should be appointed to inquire into the present condition and future prospects of primary industry in Australia. 
The Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman),  as Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, moved the following amendment: 
Leave out all words after 'That', insert 'the Senate, being aware of the economic position of primary producers and the problems associated therewith, knowing of the immediate need for analysis of industry problems to determine requirements of policy as affecting the different industries and' believing that a Royal Commission would not meet such an immediate need, as it would involve too lengthy a period for investigation and report, is of the opinion that - 
the most appropriate way of investigating the present problems of the primary industries would be to establish industrysponsored committees of enquiry, backed by the available resources of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics and the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization, to establish lines of action in the light of a world-wide situation; and 
these committees should be required to analyse the factors affecting the individual industries and report to the Government upon short-term policies to alleviate present difficulties and long-term policies for the guidance of both primary producers and the Government.' 
That has been on the notice paper since 14th May. What has the Government done about establishing industry sponsored committees of inquiry? What has the Government done to analyse the factors affecting individual industries and to institute short term policies to alleviate their present difficulties? Words cannot describe how incompetent the Government has been in its approach to the rural industries. At no time since the depression of 40 years ago have the primary industries been in such a plight. No positive or courageous leadership has been shown by the Government. It seems that any initiative it had has disappeared. Although primary producers throughout the country are criticising the Government, it is failing dismally, in a shocking manner, to face up to the problems that are so critical at present. Yesterday's Press carried this report: 
Wool prices slump. Cheque dips 40 per cent for quarter. Australia's beleaguered woolgrowers received another heavy blow in the September quarter - average wool prices fell 23 per cent This is shown in figures -released yesterday by the National Council of Wool Selling Brokers. If this dump continues woolgrowers will have their most disastrous year for decades. The figures for the 
September quarter disclose: a fall in the average price a lb from 83.79c to 29.74c; a 40 per cent decline in the wool cheque from $11 1.2m to $66.6m; and a fall of 156,078 bales in the wool clip. As an indication of the severity of the price slide, wool prices averaged 37.55c for the 1969-70 season. And that was the worst season since 1947-48. 
This is a very servere blow to the primary industries on top of so many other difficulties they are facing. As I have said, the prices being received by woolgrowers are disastrous. They are unable to obtain finance to see them over the critical situation in which many of them are placed through the drought and bad seasonal conditions, combined with poor wool prices. The same could be said of the wheat industry. The whole of the industry needs reconstruction. I wish to refer to some figures supplied by  Dr Patterson,  the honourable member for Dawson. He said that the wheat industry has reached a position of overproduction and that for 3 years prior to the present crisis facing the wheat industry the rumblings were present, but the Government waited until the crisis occurred. At the end of this year Australia will have a carryover of about 280 million bushels of wheat. At the end of the next season the carryover, notwithstanding the drought, will be about 170 million bushels. What is the Government doing about this problem? 
The Country Party is desperately kicking and bucking about what has happened.  Senator Young,  who has had some experience in primary industry, is an apologist for the poverty of ideas that the Government is showing in its approach to the tremendous crisis facing the primary industries. It is all very well for supporters of the Government to try to cover up by interjecting. Why do they not stand up and give to the Senate and to the people of Australia a positive view for the future? 
 Senator Young  is talking about a completely different subject. 
The point is that because of the plight of primary industry today, hundreds of thousands of acres of land throughout Australia are on sale but people cannot get a buyer. It is not much good talking about probate because when the time comes, under this policy to which the Government is wedded, farmers will find that their properties will be practically unsaleable because no-one will pay big prices for land when they cannot get rid of the commodities they produce. 
This red herring about probate does not carry any weight at al) at present. The situation remains that most country areas are facing their' worst financial crisis since the depression of the 1930s. We know very well what the value of land was in those days. Reference has been made to various industries. In dairying, more than in any other primary industry, the Government has failed miserably to work out in the short term or long term a solution which will give some hope for people engaged in the industry. 
No. I should like the honourable senator to stand up and express the Country Party's view. In this motion we have asked for the Government and particularly members of the Country Party to state what they will do. It is not for us to provide a solution of this problem. It is the responsibility of honourable senators opposite. We are asking for a standing committee to investigate the problems of rural industries now and in the foreseeable future. 
The honourable senator should be applying himself to providing information to the Senate on what his Party intends to do. People in primary industries need help immediately and are looking for help but no help has been forthcoming from the Government. The whole position, as we see it, is one verging on tragedy for so many people on the land. Another matter which should be mentioned is the sale of our wheat and the politics involved in the failure to give diplomatic recognition to people with whom we have been dealing at such a high level with regard to our surplus wheat. We see the outlet for our wheat in Mainland China being threatened now because the Canadian Government considers it practicable to recognise Mainland China. At present the Canadian Government is negotiating with China for an extension of the arrangements between the 2 countries for the sale of wheat. 
We are now within 2 weeks of the end of this month, at which time the arrangments which enable us to sell 82 million tons of wheat to China are due to expire, yet nothing has been done. So far as I can gather from the Press and from statements that have been made we have done nothing at all to renew our contract with China. I understand that the Australian Wheat Board has made arrangement's, acting on its own initiative. These are run of the mill haphazard arrangements which have been going on for a long time. The Wheat Board needs some assistance in these arrangements at the diplomatic level. It would not hurt the Government to give this assistance, but there are many people opposite whose political existence depends entirely on their being able to kick the Communist can. At election time they endeavour to stimulate a fear of China by issuing maps with red arrows coming down towards Australia and by speaking of the occupation of Australia by the Chinese. This is blatant hypocrisy on the part of the Government. 

 - Senator Sim and his Party are the greatest can kickers of all. That is their stock in trade. They do that to draw attention from the matters that really count, the troubles that face all those people who have borne the heat and burden of working on the land. The men on the land find that although the Government makes all these promises it lets them down badly. We of the Australian Labor Party believe that the Government has badly failed the men on the land. They need the assistance that only the Government can give. They need massive support. They need not only financial support but a renewal of their faith and their hope in this country. They should be able to feel assured and secure, now and in the future, as a result of the years of work they have put into their land to get it up to a high standard. Their equity in their holdings is being dissipated by the cost price squeeze and by inability to sell on profitable markets. The position is deteriorating, as I said before. This is a time for action, not for words. 
The Government stands condemned by people on the land throughout the length and breadth of Australia. The Government and its supporters have revealed that they are entirely absorbed in remaining on the benches of power. They want to retain control of the treasury bench at all costs. They have been able to do this by means of the massive support they have had from the communication media - the Press, radio and television - plus the gimmicks that they have been able to bring out and sell to the people of Australia. But the farmers now know different. They have realised the incompetence of the Australian Country Party to represent them in this Parliament. I am certain that the farmers will deal with the Country Party as it richly deserves to be treated at the Senate election and the House of Representatives election following that. 
Members of the Country Party continually interject when these matters are being discussed but they are noticeable by their absence from such debates. Only recently we were discussing the wine industry in South Australia - a very important industry. Senators representing that State said what a dreadful thing the Government was doing to that industry. But when the time came for a vote to be taken there was hardly one of them present in the chamber. 
It was very convenient for them not to be here. The record shows that  Senator Young  was here but other South Australian senators were conveniently absent. Surely the South Australian people do not fall .for that sort of trick. One would have expected that the South Australians would have shown themselves to be counted when this matter was being debated but they were not here, purposely or coincidentally, as they should have been. They should have voted against that legislation affecting the wine industry, in accordance with what they said. In respect of practically every field of primary industry members of the Country Party will speak one way and vote the other. We are telling the primary producers that they are entitled to a better deal than they are getting. It is for that reason that we believe it is of the utmost importance to carry the motion now before the Senate. We have a Senate Standing Committee on Primary and Secondary Industry and Trade and no time need be wasted. It is ready to avail itself of the facilities we have provided. That Standing Committee can call for assistance from the Bureau of Agricultural Economics and the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation. A motion moved by the Australian Democratic Labor Party has been on the notice paper since 14th May but its members are still following along on the fringe of the marches and demonstrations and are not telling primary producers what they are going to do for the farmers. There has been no move by the Democratic Labor Party to consummate what it proposed that far back. 
The trickery to which I referred is illustrated by the fact that the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry moved an amendment based on the view that the royal commission would not meet the immediate need of the industries and would involve too lengthy a period of sittings. In the time that has elapsed since 14th May a royal commission could have sat and could have presented a report on this critical problem. The time has come when we have to stand up to the Government and demand that it show its true colours. The voice of the farmers must be heard. Although the industry has dissipated, it has shown, in its own way, that it will be heard. It has taken the last resort and has had a demonstration in the streets. The demonstration which was supposed to have been held in Canberra was deliberately sabotaged because it would have shown the people what was in the hearts and minds of farmers. This is only bypassing the main problem. The fact is that farmers are discontented and frustrated. They feel that they have been badly let down by the Government's policy in regard to rural industries. The best the 
Opposition can do is to try to get the Government to stand up to its responsibilities so that it will have to face up to this crisis. That is what we are asking the Government to do. We are not asking for pious words, for amendments to resolutions or for royal commissions. We want the Government to get down to the big task of finding the solution and of trying to resolve the awful mess in which primary industries in Australia are today. 
Before this debate was interrupted last night I had focussed attention on the serious financial situation of the agricultural tractor industry. I had drawn attention particularly to the position of ChamberlainIndustries Pty Ltd in Western Australia and the International Harvester Co. of Australia in Victoria. [ had pointed out that there were large scale sackings by those companies because of the serious decline in sales. The Government has presented us with a case that those companies are facing serious damage as a result of import competition. But I believe that the Government is evading the issue. Through its own incompetence, it has brought about the serious situation which exists in the primary industries and in which farmers are unable to find money to spend on the purchase of tractors. Also in the course of my remarks last night I drew attention to the fact that 14.000 employees could face dismissal in the coming year. This is a very real threat to the livelihood of many honest family men in this country. 
The Bill will double the bounty that previously has been paid for a period into the future in the hope of bringing some stability to this industry. But this is only a short term palliative. We believe that a much more positive approach should be made in order to make certain that this important segment of our economy is given continuity for the purpose of planning for the future. Although we do not oppose this measure, we believe that the Government is deserving of very strong criticism. 
 May I say that T intend to move that the debate be adjourned. I will not be speaking to the motion for the first reading of the Bill. If the Minister requires leave to speak we will grant it. 
I do not follow the procedure but for the sake of peace and harmony I seek leave. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - Order! Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
At the commencement of his speech  on  the motion for the first reading of the Bill  Senator Georges  alluded briefly to what had gone before and expressed regret for an interjection he had made. In the spirit in which he expressed his regret  I  now express my regret for the retort  I  made. Now we will come to the matter of substance.  Senator Georges  is concerned about an answer that he received through me from the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  in reply to a question that he had asked. The burden of his problem is that he considers that the Commissioner  of  Taxation should have been able to give information in relation to certain companies to which the honourable senator alluded. I thought that the Treasurer's answer was categorical. It was to the effect that the Commissioner of Taxation must administer the law. The law was not made by the Commissioner of Taxation; it was made by the Parliament. The simplicity of that law is that the Commissioner may not give information in relation to the tax of an individual company except in certain prescribed and circumscribed areas. The word individual' was not used in the sense of a person but in the sense of an individual assessment. Therefore the Commissioner does not have the right to give the responses which were sought. 

 Senator Georges said that he conceded the point as it affected the first part of his question but he did not concede it as it affected the second part of his question. However, he did say that the Commissioner should be able to comment on, as he described it, the arrangements made for the payment of tax and how that was dealt with. This is simply a refined way of obtaining information about the assessable income of an individual or company. I can well understand that the information which was supplied in the answer was completely accurate. It would in fact mean giving details about an individual case if information were to be supplied about the arrangements made for the payment of taxation. The Commisioner of Taxation has therefore said that it was not within his power to give this information. 

 Senator Georges made reference to the evasion of taxation. This is a matter which is outside of my sphere. I do not think that  Senator Georges  should make such loose allegations about taxation evasion. If he has any details of taxation evasion he should state them categorically. The honourable senator has to accept responsibility for what he says.  Senator Georges  is in effect relying on an answer by the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  to the effect that the Commissioner of Taxation does not have power to supply such information. In the very same speech he alleges taxation evasion. I do not think that this is the proper way to go about the matter. If the honourable senator wishes to make allegations about the taxation evasion of a particular firm or individual he should stand up in his place and do so in a direct manner. He should not adopt a backhanded approach. The honourable senator should take into consideration the damage which he can do to the reputation of an individual or company. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONIf the honourable senator is thinking of the national interest, I would suggest to him with great respect that the way in which he has approached the matter is not in the national interests. It is a very serious matter to talk loosely in terms of taxation evasion by a company or individual. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI suggest to  Senator Georges  that he use the forms of the House if he wishes to do so. However, before doing so, he should think about what he is going to say and be very precise in what he says. I was trying to be co-operative to him by sitting here and patiently listening to what he had to say, but I felt concern about him using expressions of the type which he used. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator O'Byrne)  adjourned. 
The Bill that we have before us relates to the declaration of general rates of tax for the current financial year. The general rates payable by taxpayers will result in some tax reductions, lt is claimed that the tax reductions will be substantial in the lower and middle income groups but that they will taper off in a graduated scale for those in the higher income groups. A most interesting table is available to honourable senators and honourable members as the result of a question that was asked in another place. It shows that there are 4,027,000 taxpayers in the $417 to $4,000 income range and that they have 874,000 wives and 989.000 first children and student children. The deductions for this group total $398m. In the income group from $4,001 to $10,000 there are 901,000 taxpayers. They will receive total deductions of $407m. The 71,000 taxpayers in the $10,000 and above income group will receive deductions of $89m. 
I have quoted those figures to illustrate that although the Government claims to be making considerable concessions, in reality what it is giving with one hand in direct tax deductions it is taking back again on an even greater scale through the incidence of indirect taxes, it is preferable to have direct taxes rather than indirect taxes. Unfortunately, indirect taxes increase the cost of goods and cause inflation - one of the greatest menaces in our economy today. The collection of indirect taxes takes place at the distribution point and this has an effect on the final price of many commodities that influence the cost of living. 
The claim that these tax deductions favour those in the lower income group can be challenged. Generally speaking, the Government's offer of taxation relief for these 2 income groups - the middle and lower income groups - as announced in the policy speech last year is not, as was indicated, a real benefit to these people. In reality it is an insult to Australians. They know very well that they have only to look behind the facade of these tax deductions to see whether people are better off or worse off in the final analysis. Reports from individuals reveal clearly that already the imposition of the additional indirect taxes and the price rises which followed the announcement that various rates of taxation would be increased have more than equated the concessions offered by this legislation. The 10 per cent taxation remission certainly will help those in the higher income group, but it is a very debatable point whether those in the lower income group will gain at all. Any temporary gains are more than neutralised by the slugs of the extra charges imposed by the Budget. The tax remissions are a handout to the rich and a kick in the teeth for the poor. The higher income group, up to $32,000 a year, covers relatively few fortunate members of the community. For the overwhelming bulk of Australians whose average earnings are between $2,000 and $3,000 a year the gains are more than swallowed up by the losses. 
It has been pointed out that the Government's objective was to try to control inflation. But the slugs introduced by the Budget are all inflationary. They have brought about increases in the cost of household commodities and a higher cost of living. As the cost of living rises, the number of claims before the courts for increased wages increases also. So the vicious cycle continues. One of the most vicious of the indirect taxes imposed was that on motor fuel. In this day and age people who consider that a motor car is a luxury are closing their eyes to the facts of life. The motor car is as important a part of the equipment of a human being as is a pair of shoes, a pair of socks or a suit. One section of the community which will have to pay this increase in the cost of fuel consists of the people who use their motor cars to travel to and from their place of employment. If an executive of a big company uses a company car, the company gets a tax exemption on the fuel used. But the ordinary wage and salary earner has to pay this extra 3c a gallon on petrol. 
The irony of the whole situation is that Australia has improved its position wilh regard to the supply of crude oil. We have reached the stage where we have in sight the provision of 60 per cent or more of our domestic requirements. A series of increases in indirect taxes on fuel will negative the Government's claim that the direct taxation concessions will be of value to the middle and lower income groups. The contracts drawn up with the Bass Strait oil operators have resulted in increases in the price of petrol. They are a very poor reflection on those who are in control of the country's economy. It is absolutely ridiculous that we can get high quality crude oil just off our coastline and yet the cost of bringing ashore that oil is not competitive with the cost of bringing crude oil half way across the world. There is no doubt that the quantities discovered, the potentials of the fields and the like are such that there should be a reduction of quite a considerable amount in the price of our petrol. Instead of that, since the discoveries, there has been a succession of increases. These things are nullifying any benefits accruing from this legislation which will give income tax deductions. To illustrate this, a person who uses 10 gallons of fuel a week has to pay another 30c a week because of the extra 3c tax on each gallon of fuel. The same consideration applies to the indirect tax on cigarettes. An extra 3c tax has been imposed on the price of a packet of cigarettes. An average family man and his wife who smoke a packet a day are up for an extra 42c a week. An extra indirect tax has been imposed on telephone rentals. The increase is $7 a year. This is quite a large amount for the ordinary wage and salary earner. People who want to buy a new car are up for an extra slug of about $50 on a car in the lower than average range - about the $2,000 mark. 
All these items are contributing in a general way to the inflationary spiral. Those who have to bear the burden of the inflationary spiral are those who have to wait until there is an appeal to the court before wages are increased. The myth that rising wages are the cause of inflation does not ring true when one realises that prices have to be increased to a certain extent before the courts grant increases in wages so that the extra costs can be met by the wage and salary earners. We see that the general inflationary trend is being accelerated, and it bears most heavily on those in the lower income groups. They are the people who spend most of their weekly salary on the necessities of life. Those in the higher income groups can make long range investments and have interests which are often tax deductible and for which considerable concessions arc available. But these deductions and concessions are not available to those in the lower income groups. As an added impost a wide range of items are covered by the extra 21 per cent sales tax. The iniquity of these indirect taxes is such that the increases do noi stop at  2i  per cent. An opportunity is given to retailers passing on this tax to increase their prices. The tax is the signal for the increase in prices. 
In the Senate recently we had a debate on the imposition of the 50c a gallon excise on Australian wines which was supposed, I think, to amount to about 9c a bottle. But by the time this increase is passed on the consumer pays anything from 25c to 75c extra a bottle. What happens is a disturbance in the wine price schedule which gives the green light for widespread increases at levels higher than that at which the original tax was levied. It is of the nature of the society in which we live that people are ready to accept these alterations in tax rates as being the signal for a general price increase on top of the amount of tax which is imposed. 
I have related these increases to the wage and salary earners. But what is happening to the person who has not the advantage - if one can call it an advantage - of the wage or salary earner who has access to conciliation and arbitration or to public service tribunals and has periodical adjustments in his salary? What about the poor people of Australia? When T say 'poor people' I mean those who are poor in spirit because of disillusionment and the sense that they have been doublecrossed by the policy of the Government? 1 refer to people on superannuation. They do not have redress to a court for increases. Often they are excluded by the means test from recouping any of the contributions made over their working life to the social service scheme through income tax. There is no doubt that a proportion of income tax does not cover social service contributions and therefore this section of the community is being deprived by the means test of benefits from funds to which they have contributed throughout their lifetime. They are deprived of access to any judicial body to see (hat their amount of income is regulated and increased to meet inflation. They are the people who are suffering most. They felt that in making provision for their future their equity would be maintained. They have been badly treated by the policy of this Government. I believe that even now a review should be made of the impact of this ever-increasing inflationary spiral on this section of the community. 
I move on from the superannuitants to the aged,  invalid  and  widows  in the community. This is where a really raw deal has been given to a very deserving section of the community. 1 do not suppose anyone doubts that there has been a growing spiral in prices. Every 3 months there has been a 2 per cent or 3 per cent increase in prices. T have seen records recently which show lhat over one quarter there were increases in prices on a thousand different commodities, and these are prices which affect those on age, invalid and widows* pensions. Any Government supporters with a conscience or any fellow feeling towards these people who .vet can sit in their places and support the miserable handout of 50c in the pension which was made in the Budget should be filled with shame. 
If we thought we could rely on Australian Democratic Labor Party support we would have done that. But the DLP is so steeped in political manoeuvring, horse dealing and tactics of every kind and every variety that if ever we were to place our confidence in that Party for anything that would be to the good of the people rather than to the good of supporters of that Party our faith would be misplaced. Whatever comes from the honourable senator's corner has a trick in it. The increase of 50c which was given to the pensioners will cost S20m a year. Yet the wool growers, who I will admit have been badly hit, in one fell swoop received a subsidy of $30m which was supported very readily by Government members. 
No. I am making a comparison to show how readily Government members will support a $30m subsidy without a word, while no move is made by any of them to redress this great injustice which has been imposed on pensioners. I hope that widespread support will be given by Government members to the movement for a Little Budget whereby a review can be made of the Budget in the near future and some redress given to this section of the community. We find too that this Government is able to make expenditure practically regardless of any thought of the cost. One has only to look back and evaluate our position at the moment on the tragic F111 project. For 6 years we have been muddling and waffling along with this project trying to cover up for the great mistake which was made by buying a pig in a poke for election purposes in 1964. There was no difficulty in finding the amount which had to be paid as a deposit, the provision of spare parts, the provision of aerodromes and facilities for this aircraft. Of course today it is parked somewhere in the distant south of the United States. 
In the present situation, for some reason or other, the Government likes to generate a fear complex. It likes to pull the wool over the eyes of the Australian people by selling them the story that we are under threat of invasion - although from where I do not know because the Government has never said. The Government has found it imperative to lease very expensive Phantom aircraft from the United States. Those aircraft will be well and truly out of date and obsolete before they will ever be given any operational duties, on the estimate of even the most pessimistic person. 
The Phantoms. It is quite likely that they will be used for interference in other people's affairs outside our country. 
I am not imagining it at all. It is a fact. We are interfering in other people's affairs in Vietnam- 
Australia is interfering in a civil war and an undeclared war there. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Laucke)  - Order!  Senator O'Byrne,  will you kindly come back to the provisions of the Bills? 
I am speaking on the provisions of the Bills,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  if I may be excused for reminding you, because the so-called concessions that are being made are being paid for very dearly by the ordinary citizens of this country. As I said, members of the Government parties have no compunction at all in supporting the expenditure of vast amounts of money on phoney exercises outside our territory. They can sell these propositions through their good friends in the Press, the television stations and the like. But in reality it is just an exercise in public relations. 
One has only to read the memoirs of a predecessor of the present Prime Minister to see the way he is trying to explain the mistakes that he made in practically every instance in which he involved us in foreign affairs. Our involvement in the Suez Canal incident, Vietnam, Korea and all the other places has been an exercise which has been tremendously costly to Australia. 

 Senator Yoting You are against the United Nations action in Korea, too, are you? 
Perhaps there was more in the Korean conflict than the honourable senator would like to admit. The position is that Australia is being involved in these situations, but we do not seem to be getting any of the industries that are being kept going as a result of the expenditure of these vast sums of money. Where are our war industries? Where are our aircraft manufacturing organisations? Where are we building tanks? Where are we making rifles? 
 To a very limited extent. The benefits that are coming to Australia are negligible compared with those that are flowing to overseas countries which have a vested interest in keeping little wars and big wars going throughout the world. 
With regard to inflation, a tremendous problem is facing this nation today. It relates to the ever increasing interest rates which are bearing most heavily on the middle and lower income groups, the home purchasers and those who need to furnish their homes. We see a Budget go by and we see taxation concessions made to people. Yet there is nothing for those who are the greatest asset we have - the young Australian parents who are starting off a home but whose interest payments are increasing all the time. The family man who borrows money to purchase a horns costing $12,000 finds that by the time he has paid it off with interest at a flat rate of 8 per cent or more he pays $36,000 for his home. That means that he has to pay 3 times the price of the house. 
We believe that this is an unjust measure inasmuch as it does not do what it was supposed to do. Tt makes some concessions to those in the higher income groups who can afford to pay the indirect taxes. But it does not help those it was supposed to help; that is, those who have to pay indirect taxes on so many ordinary every day commodities. We have moved the following amendment: 
Leave out all words after 'That', insert - 'the Bill be withdrawn and redrafted because whilst it reduces rates of taxation it does so in a regressive manner? 
To support that amendment, I have pointed out that the incidence of taxation is still very heavy on the wage and salary earners. It is practically intolerable, because of the way indirect taxation is increasing the cost of commodities, on people on fixed incomes such as people on superannuation and pensioners. Therefore, we believe that not only should the Government be censured but that it is only just and fair for the Government to make a review so that in some way or other the amounts received by people on fixed incomes - particularly the aged, the invalid and the widowed - will be increased. The present social service payments are totally inadequate to meet the growing costs of living that are confronting those people today. I support the amendment. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry. In view of the withdrawal of the licence to export meat to the United States that had been held by the meat processing firm of S. P. Holman and Sons Pty Ltd at Devonport, involving the laying off of 60 employees and the stranding of an $88,000 shipment of meat intended for the United States, will the Minister direct the trade commissioners in countries accepting Australian beef to endeavour to obtain a market for this first class beef from Holmans, thereby alleviating also the critical position that has arisen because the supply of raw material  to by-product firms in. the Devonport area has ceased following the closure of Holman's export business, seriously affecting at least four of these by-product firms? 
As to finding alternative markets in the period in which the licence is cancelled, this is a normal function of the Department of Trade and Industry and 1 think it can be accepted that the Department is looking critically at- the problem and the possibility of finding alternative markets. Nevertheless, since the honourable senator has asked the question I will have it referred to the Department of Trade and Industry. I may say - I know this to be a fact - that the Department is alert to the problem and is trying to find a solution to it. 
This Bill authorises the collection of Customs duties covering a variety of commodities. The Senate hasbeen given an assurance that next session opportunity will be given for a full debate. This is purely a machinery measure which meets with the approval of the Opposition. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without requests or debate. 
 The statement which has just been presented to the Senate transcends most other issues that have faced Australia in recent times. I would go so far as to say that it transcends most other issues in Australia's history during the twentieth century. The tradition of Australia's relations with Great Britain has been that, of a family. It has been a tradition in which we have had a trust with our mother country, that as part of the British Commonwealth, and previously part of the British Empire, we would be given a preference, as we have given a preference to the United Kingdom over the years. Now, in a short curt way, we have been advised that some of our basic export commodities are to be treated in a cavalier fashion. I believe this calls for a very strong protest not only from the Senate but also from the whole Parliament and the people of Australia. 
In my view this situation reflects very badly on the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen)  who was closely associated during the negotiations with the previous British Government in its expectation of joining the European Economic Community. Yet the Minister for Trade and Industry has kept Australia in the dark. We have been badly informed of the implications of Britain's entry to the European Economic Community in relation to the basic commodities referred to in the statement. Whether the commodity is beef, lamb, veal, milk, cream, cereals or any other basic commodity, practically every section of our rural economy will be affected. We have experienced already bitter blows from the United Slates of America through its discrimination against the Australian beef industry. The United States authorities have applied conditions to the slaughtering and processing of beef that, in my view and in the view of many people in the industry, have been far beyond reason. This action, which has resulted from lobbying by meat interests in the United States, has been a bitter blow aimed at our beef industry. Now, on top of that, we have this action by the United Kingdom. 
I believe that we should have been given an opportunity over the last 5 years to phase out our exports to the United Kingdom. Honourable senators will recall that Prime Minister Menzies sacked the present Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  for having the temerity to open his mouth to warn the Australian people of what might be the consequences of Britain's entry into the European Common Market. The truth of the situation which was developing was never divulged. We have been kept in the dark until tonight. Now, in the dying stages of the Parliament, the matter has suddenly been thrust at us without our having an opportunity to debate it. 1 hope that this matter will be made the subject of a full debate tonight. It is the most serious thing that faces the stability of our economy. The financial position of many engaged in primary industry is involved in the ultimate. I believe that we have been sold short, in spite of our long association with the United Kingdom. 
The whole pattern of our economy, the value of our money, the concessions we have made in keeping up this relationship between Great Britain and Australia over the past century, and more, have been put aside. We have bad a relationship that is hard to put down in writing or to express. It has been one of mutual trust.I believe that this sudden change of policy by the Heath Government should be deplored by the people of this country. It is -I have to repeat the term, but it is an international one - a perfidious Albion. This has been a part of our foreign policy over the years. We have been badly let down. I believe the Senate should express its disapproval that suddenly we should be confronted with such a serious issue. I believe we should send a special delegation to the United Kingdom to ask for time to readjust our economy, to allow our farmers to diversify, if possible, away from the commodities which are affected. I will repeat them. They include beef, veal, mutton, milk, cereals, milk, powder and cream. 
Yes, sugar can be included too. We have been supplying sugar to the United Kingdom at a subsidised price for years. The Australian consumer has been paying freely to help the British consumers of sugar. The same situation applies in regard to butter. We have been making alt these concessions as a member of a family, and now we find we have been slapped in the face. It is disgraceful that the British Government should treat us in such a cavalier way. I want to place on record my disappointment that after a long period of fraternity with the British people Australia has been let down very badly. I am sure the British people are not responsible; I believe only the narrow minded Conservative Government in England would be capable of conceiving anything like this. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry. The rules of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade - GATT- provide that, while it is legitimate for 2 or more countries to join in a customs union, no new barriers to trade should be raised through such a union. In view of the serious barriers which will be raised against the import of Australian agricultural products into the United Kingdom, which have been estimated to be to the extent of $200m, I ask: Does a threat not exist to the very basis of GATT as a consequence of the proposed action? What value can be placed by Australia on agreements such as GATT if they can be breached with such impunity? 
I would like to clear up a matter raised by the Leader of the Australian Democratic Labor Party  (Senator Gair).  He suggested that there had been agreement between the Whips in relation to a timetable for the business of the Senate for the remainder of the session. What happened was that the Whips got together to discuss the suggested programme for the coming days in view of the amount of business which was on the business paper. No formal agreement was made. We thought that if we had some conception of the number of honourable senators who wished to speak that would give us an idea of whether it would be possible to get through the business. We thought that under normal circumstances, bearing in mind the time it would take for so many honourable senators to speak, we could reach a certain stage by last night. We also anticipated that another series of items, could be completed by Friday. 
There were other motions which had to be disposed of by fitting them in as required during this session so no arrangement or agreement was made as far as the timetable was concerned. We just considered an assessment and an appreciation of the business that had to be put through. It is up to the Government to make up its mind fairly soon whether the Senate will sit next week. As I said, it is impossible to handle the volume of business which is before the Senate in the time available this week. I think the Senate should agree that we finish at the normal time on Friday, come back again on Monday and sit until the business is completed. This would be the reasonable way. 
I agree that that could be done. 
In clause 5 of the Bill under definitions reference is made to the corporation, lt states: 
The Corporation' means the. company incorporated under the law of the Australian Capital Territory by the name of the Australian Wool Marketing Corporation Pty Ltd. 
In his second reading speech the Minister stated: lt has been estimated that the Commission might require in the region of $H5m by way of working capital for a full year - to operate flexible reserve prices, make advances to growers, etc.  -  and about $!8.7m to meet its likely annual operating costs . . . Moreover, the estimates include the finance which is already required for the operations of the Wool Marketing Corporation, mainly for the elimination of small lots and the price averaging plan. 
I would like the Minister to explain why the name of the organisation - the Australian Wool Marketing Corporation Pty Ltd - contains the words Proprietary 
Limited. Where does the Corporation fit into the pattern of the Australian Wool Commission? Will it remain a separate body? Will the price averaging plan continue as a separate part of the organisation, or is that incorporated into the Commission's functions? 
Following the explanation given by the Minister that the Commission has 

 Australian Wool authority to clean wool that may be burry, dusty or carrying a lot of condition, I ask whether the Commission would be able to set up scouring facilities and engage in top making. It has been my view that one of the failures of our industry is that we have sent our basic product overseas in its rawest form, paying the highest freight rates for sending burrs, dust, dags and lanoline overseas. We have not been getting any value at all from that. The cost of freight has lessened the value of the commodity overseas. If this industry is to be properly organised, in view of the fact that we cannot manufacture for the world's markets, at least we should prepare our wool so that it is in its best possible state when it is placed on overseas markets. I ask the Minister whether there is provision in this Bill for the Commission to set up facilities for top making, scouring and the like. 
In a valuable contribution to the debate  Senator Bull  made the point, amongst many others, that the wool industry has never been more united than it is today. The industry is united but unfortunately it has had to reach one of the lowest points in its history to become united. It is a great pity that over the years many attempts to get the wool growers to unite have failed.  Senator Bull  mentioned that the Government needed a psychology for selling the clip. It also needs a special psychology to understand the wool grower. By the very nature of his calling he is separated by distance from his neighbour. He has to be very resourceful and able to turn his hand to anything that arises on his property. Further, he is isolated to the extent that he has to make his own decisions. In many ways he becomes slightly different from the ordinary member of an urban community. 
The point can be well made that the wool growers at long last have united. It is of interest that one of the methods that was used to unite the wool growers was to get them into the streets to march. I did not think I would ever see the day when wool growers would be so incensed by what they saw facing them and by their disillusionment after 20 years experience of a Government which had promised them all sorts of things by way of financial stability and had broken its promises. The Government had broken its promise to put value back into the 1. It had assured wool growers that if their contributed towards a wool promotion scheme many of the problems of the industry would be solved. Finally, they reached the stage where their belief in the Government could no longer be sustained and they went out and marched in the streets. That has brought quite a reward to them because this legislation is the first glimmer of hope that we have had, other than in wartime, of a properly organised wool industry. 

 Senator Bull spoke about having some sort of floor in the market. It is my view that we will never have sufficient funds to keep a floor in the wool market as long as the other end is open under the auction system of selling wool. The importance of having a viable wool industry is obvious to us all. Its position in our economy and the contribution that it makes to our export markets and our balance of trade are of tremendous importance. Keeping the industry viable and maintaining the faith of the people in the industry in their ability to continue producing as economically as they possibly can are of great importance and are the reason for the introduction of this legislation. 
It is a great pity that the Government has left it until so late in the parliamentary session to introduce this important legislation. The Bill is designed to set up the Australian Wool Commission which in turn is designed at a very late stage to rescue the wool industry, which the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen)  has described as being in a disastrous condition. The situation is no credit to the Government, which has been kept in office for such a long time by members of the Country Party. I mention them specifically because  Senator Young,  during his remarks, kept expressing surprise that the 
Opposition had been accusing members of the Government parties of trying to make political mileage out of this legislation. 
The point we have been making all along is that the government has waited until the last possible moment before a Senate election to introduce this legislation, whereas it could have done so at any time during the period since 1959, when recommendations were made. The referendum that was held in 1965 and the other attempts that were made during that period to introduce some sort of stability into the industry did not meet with any success. So, we are quite entitled to charge Government senators, including  Senator Young,  with making as much political mileage out of this legislation as they can. 
The situation has developed to the stage where the confidence, financial standing and morale of people in the wool growing industry are even worse than they were in the years of the depression. When the average price of wool was 8d per lb in the worst of the depression years the costs of commodities needed to carry on wool growing were also low. Everyone was in the same boat. But today the wool grower is living in a so-called affluent society in which he sees the people associated with the mining industry, those operating on the stock exchanges and those in other fields of industry and distribution, including retailing, sharing in the affluence while he is the forgotten man in the community. He has very little chance of diversifying. He cannot sell his property. In addition - I will develop this point later - he cannot be absolutely assured that even this instalment of assistance will be able to restore his morale and restore him to his previous financial position in the community. 
This legislation can be likened to a blood transfusion given to keep the patient alive pending the diagnosis. The big problem that faces the whole of this industry, apart from the immediate problem of being able to dispose of its product, is to find out where the wool industry stands in relation to other primary industries and whether it will have to go through the process through which they have had to go. In the wheat industry quotas have been introduced. The dairy industry has reached saturation point and is being restructured. All the other seg ments of primary industry have had to undergo similar processes. They have had to get right down to bedrock and find out the cause of the problem. I am sure that that has to be done in the wool industry. This restructuring may well be a drawn out. process. But it is something that has to be tackled. 
Over the years I have warned members of the Government parties in this chamber of the consequences of their policy of allowing prices to spiral. Those consequences have now caught up with the wool industry with a vengence But still, in my view, no attempt is made by the Government to neutralise in any way whatever the very adverse effects of continuing inflation. In some other industries the wave can be ridden by increasing prices because they have a captive market. So, the consumers in the society continually have to put their hands deeper into their pockets to meet the increasing costs of commodities. The arbitration court then reviews the price spiral situation and makes adjustments to wages. This process is going on all the time. It allows people in other branches of commerce and industry to adjust themselves as the inflation continues. But that does not happen in the primary industries, particularly the wool industry. 
Government senators are looking for excuses as to why the wool industry has come to its present sorry state. One of the worst features of this industry is that there can be no stability for it while there is such an array of people associated with it and even living off it to their advantage and to the disadvantage of those who are actually growing the wool. The sticking plaster that is being placed over the basic sore from which the industry is suffering is giving only temporary respite and eventually will turn out to be just a victory for the buyers, the brokers, the bankers and the merchants. 
The $130m that the Government is providing, in the first place, to try to build up the capacity of the industry to continue to operate is a big contribution. It will come from the taxpayers in this country. The ordinary man in the street will contribute to that fund. I believe that the taxpayer is quite willing to make that contribution, provided we obtain the best value for it. As I see the situation, we are assuring that the auction system will continue. No provision is being made to ensure that collusive buying, pies and the like are noi continued. If we just bolster up the floor price I cannot see, however long we have the auction system, how we will prevent collusive purchasing. lt has been mentioned during the course of this debate that collusive tendering is part of the Japanese policy of selective buying. Surely people as highly organised economically as the Japanese are will no! allow their buyers to compete in a market which is a buyers' market. The wood chip industry in Tasmania was mentioned earlier by  Senator Kennelly.  This is a lew industry which is growing and expanding. It is one in which the Japanese are very interested. The Japanese said that they had a bone dry price for our wood chips. That was their set price. The Treasury and the Department of Trade and Industry believed that the Japanese were driving too hard a bargain. The Japanese were prepared to walk out of negotiations because it suited their economy to buy at this tower price because then they could play the price of our wood chips against the cost of wood chips that they could purchase elsewhere. This illustrates that we. will not influence people who have highly sophisticated methods of purchasing. I refer not only to the Japanese but also to continental buyers who come to Australia who go through the process of appearing to bid and yet are buying wool that costs so much to produce at a price that s uneconomic to the wool grower himself. The industry could not be in a worse plight than it is in today. It certainly needs this shot in the arm. 
I have mentioned already that the reasons for the low prices that are prevailing are not hard to deduce. No pricing structure other nian those fixed by highly organised buyers is available. It will be an open ended process where, virtually, the Treasury has opened up its doors. If honourable senators look at the legislation they will see that the Commission is treated most generously. To get this scheme afloat, the Commission has been given directions to put some sort of underpinning under the industry and whatever the costs are they will be met. I believe that men will be selected who will do the job as economically as possible. Nevertheless, this indicates the very serious situation in which the wool industry finds itself. 
It has been said quite rightly that the future of the wool industry and wool growers is at stake. The viability of rural towns is up for decision. The employment of a vast number of people who are living outside city areas and who are rearing families has been put into a state of uncertainty by this depression in the price paid for wool which has spread through the wool industry. On top of the drought and other hazards that the industry has had to face recently, depressed wool prices have been a very heavy blow and a heavy burden for the wool grower to bear. 
It can be said - this is a little note of confidence - that this legislation can lay the foundations for a progressive and viable wool scheme. I believe that it will not be long before a change of Government occurs and a marketing scheme will be introduced in which the grower will know that, if he produces a commodity of quality, he will be given every encouragement to introduce into the production of that commodity all the advances that science can bring to the industry. Different- processes that are used in getting wool to the market, such as handling it some 85 times between the farm and the ship, will be approached in a better way in the overall scheme which a Labor Government will introduce. We will introduce a comprehensive and viable wool selling scheme that will give to the wool grower a good future in which he will be able to reap the rewards of his labours. 
We believe that our plan will restore confidence to the wool growers. I believe that our wool growers have completely lost confidence in the Government of this country. Wool growers want something that will last longer than the palliative provided by this legislation with its restrictions. The fact is that this is more of a temporary makeshift measure than a continuing long range plan. The wool growers will find that they will have the answer not only in the near future but also that in 1972 they will have the chance to get a new deal from the Commonwealth Government. 
I wish to deal with 2 or 3 of the things that I believe are necessary. This organisation either will have to obtain power to implement them or a complete rearrangement of the provisions of this legislation will be necessary.  Senator Bull  mentioned his disappointment that Australia could not make arrangements for the transport of its wool fo its overseas markets by Australian ships. We have had the opportunity before to do this. What has happened? Instead of the Austalian National Line being able to follow its own policy and its own course, it has joined the Conference lines, it is now a case of Tweedledum and Tweedledee. For years and years the Australian wool industry has been subject to the dictates of the international shipping Conference. Now our own shipping organisation has joined that Conference. What advantage will this bring? What influence could the Australian Wool Commission have on such a very strongly entrenched monopoly as the international shipping Conference? This in my view is one of the most important matters that must be rearranged in the wool industry. 
The same importance applies to presale testing or core testing which was mentioned earlier. No doubt exists that a commodity such as wool, particularly high quality wool which is unobtainable in other parts of the world, should be presented economically but, as attractively and as efficiently as possible. Yet, many of the methods that are used in shearing sheds today have obtained there for 100 years.  Senator Young  spoke of the registration of classers. But the classer who goes out into the shearing shed with the shearing team has not the facilities to do this work. He is in the middle of the shearing and shearing is one of the most active industries. From the time the commencement bell goes in the morning until the shearers knock off at night, the work is a continuous rush. Each man is going as fast as he possibly can to keep up with the next man. The pace is set by the shearer. The shearer has to compete not only with his fellow shearers but also with the award wage. So it goes on right throughout the shed. The wool classer day by day. handles his side of the job. It is impossible for a wool classer who at times must class 1,500 or even more fleeces a day to do his job so that the end product is of such a standard as to satisfy the most sophisticated buyers of fine or medium quality wool on the continental market, including the Italians and the Germans. 
Other things need to be streamlined. I believe that this Commission will need to play its role and, if necessary, obtain extra authority in the matter of the auction system itself. I have mentioned this before, but 1 believe it will have to step in to make certain that the competition is not organised. Many people in this day and age are just idealists if they think that any country which is well enough organised to buy on world markets is going to allow individuals from that country to compete with  ODe  another. 1 believe it is the brokers who will get the full benefit of this scheme. Wool growers have been facing up to enormous problems, such as declining prices, increases in interest rates, increased costs for shire and council rates as well as increased freights. The grower has been relieved of these things temporarily. On the other hand the broker will have the benefit of the price being underpinned. He gets his commission no matter what happens.  His  position is assured and he does not have to worry about the plight of the wool growers. 1 believe that the Commission should go into the broking business and take it over. That is one of the best contributions that we could make to the future of the industry. 
The Commission has in front of it the overall problem of the competition we are meeting from synthetics. There is no doubt that the production technique of synthetics has developed enormously over the last 20 years. However, wool fibre does have special qualities which will allow it not only to compete with, but beat, synthetics if all the other factors along the line of wool production are looked into. 
We of the Opposition wish the Commission well. We hope it will lay a groundwork on which a better scheme can be built, one which will enable wool growers to get the best possible return. I refer to a scheme which will handle wool from the woof sheds right along the line to the ship and eventually to the world markets - a single wool selling authority. I think that many wool growers throughout Australia believed that the Commission was to be a single wool selling authority. However, under the terras of this Bill, it will merely be an agent to make certain that the wool brokers, the bankers and the other merchants get their slice of the cake as usual. We can only hope that the Commission does what the Government claims it will do. We hope that the tide will turn for the wool grower, because he has been going through such a bad time. A man who works as hard and as long as the ordinary man on the land deserves a much better, fate than he is suffering at the moment. The Opposition gives its imprimatur to this legislation. We propose to move some amendments during the Committee stage. We hope that the future condition of the wool industry will be much brighter than its present condition. If this legislation can help, then 1 am right behind it and I support it. 
I just have this sentence: Further, 27,000 people emigrated from Australia last year. In view of the substantial influence that the British migrant has had on the balance of Australia's overall immigration policy will the Minister advise the Senate at the earliest possible opportunity what measures are being taken to ascertain why there is such a large fall-off in the balance of immigrants and at the same time inquire into the cause of the large figure of 27,000 people who emigrated from this country in one year? 
It is difficult to attribute this change in pattern to any single cause. Such changes are usually the result of a complex of factors in both the country of emigration and Australia. It is also difficult to assess whether such changes are the result of short term influences or indications of a longer term trend. In view of the fact that applications since the beginning of July are only a little over 3 per cent less -I think this is an important figure - than those in the comparable period of the previous year 1 believe there are no grounds for suggesting that there is any long term trend for British assisted migration to Australia to decrease to any substantial extent. The honourable senator in the last point of his question asked about people going overseas from Australia. I will obtain some information concerning that. 
1 ask the Minister representing the Treasurer whether the Commonwealth Government can give any protection to policy holders who had with insurance companies home mortgages at rates of interest from  5i  per cent to 6) per cent and who are now faced with a demand to pay 8i per cent interest or to redeem the mortgages forthwith. As interest at 8t per cent would place an intolerable burden on many young home buyers, will the Treasurer give consideration to financing these mortgages at a rate of interest equivalent to that paid on loans made by government instrumentalities for home finance? 
The honourable senator's question concerns varying rates of interest on housing finance. As I understood him, he referred to mortgages that are already in existence. They would be in a variety of forms, most of which would be under the jurisdiction of State laws. For instance, a person who borrows money from an institution or through a solicitor enters into a contractual arrangement. There would be principally 2 forms of arrangement, one of which would involve a fixed rate of interest, and the other would involve a rate of interest allowing for variation with other factors. They are legal contracts. Of course, in certain circumstances the interest rates have changed. Permanent building societies are probably the biggest housing finance institutions in New South Wales outside of Commonwealth Government instrumentalities. Their contracts provide for variations in the rates of interest. 
I could not support the concept that whenever there is a variation in housing loan interest rates the Commonwealth should step in and cover the variation, lt seems to me that that would destroy the very essence of the ability of institutions, people or companies to lend money for home buyers. For as long as money has been lent to purchase homes there has been a contractual arrangement. What is happening is a variation in the terms of such contractual arrangements.  Senator O'Byrne  said that interest at  Si  per cent is too high. lt is a matter of opinion. He could argue that 6 per cent, 7 per cent, or 10 per cent are rates that are too high. I would not know whether he is right. The truth of the matter is that the situation is not dealt with in the way that the honourable senator is suggesting. In any event, most of the responsibility would not be in the hands of ihe Commonwealth but in the hands of the sovereign States. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for External 
Affairs,  upon notice: 
Has the Minister seen Press reports of 20th October stating that America's Central Intelligence Agency has told President Nixon that it doubts if the Saigon regime can survive without the presence of a big American military force. 
Did the reports state that  a  resurgence of Viet Cong strength could be expected as American Forces withdraw. 
Does the Government believe Australian troops should be forced into a position where they may have to fight a desperate rearguard action to escape the inevitable. 
Does this lend an even greater urgency to the withdrawal of all Australian troops from Vietnam. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe Minister for External Affairs has provided the following reply: 
and (2)  I  am aware of Press reports which purported to describe  a  report prepared by the United States Central Intelligence Agency. I nave no comment to make on these reports. As tothe United States Government's intentions with regard to the future of its forces in the Republic of Vietnam, I draw  Senator O'Byrne's  attention to the statement made by  President  Nixon on 7 October 1970,  a  copy of which may be found in the Parliamentary Library. 
and (4) The position of the Australian Government on the future of Australian forces in the Republic of Vietnam as stated by the Prime Minister in the House of Representatives on 22 April 1970 (Hansard, page 1456). 
Will the Minister please give me a reply to the question I asked earlier as to the breakdown of the combined amounts that were spent on the fees for private architects, engineers and quantity surveyors for Victoria and Tasmania? Those amounts are combined. I would like to know how much is attributed to Tasmania and how much to Victoria. 
I rise for the purpose of allowing  Senator Georges  to continue, f will give him that chance now. 
1 refer to Division 508, subdivision 2, item 15, which shows the proposed expenditure for fees of private architects, engineers, quantity surveyors and other consultants as $4,850,000. I have here a break-up of this expenditure between the various States as shown in the AuditorGeneral's report. On page 317 the report shows that in the last year there was an amount of $726,749 paid to consultants in Victoria and Tasmania. The two States are grouped. I would like to have a breakdown of those figures from the Minister so that we can see how much applies to Victoria and how much applies to Tasmania out  of  the $726,749 and know also how much of this appropriation is expected to be spent in each of those States rather than collectively in the coming year. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2..15 p.m. 
This Bill amends the Phosphate Fertilisers Bounty Act. An increase of the bounty by $4 a ton from $8 to $12 was made in August last year but this bounty applied only to stocks that were held by manufacturers. This Bill provides for unsold stocks that were held by merchants and resellers. It makes this bounty retrospective to 13th August 1969 and will overcome the financial disadvantage that resellers experienced in meeting the price of the phosphate fertiliser which was lowered by that bounty. It also provides that payment of a bounty in future will be made to both manufacturers and resellers at the same time that any change takes place in the bounty on phosphate fertilisers. This Bill is not controversial, although we can expect in the future as a result of Tariff Board reports on nitrogenous fertilisers that there could be quite a degree of adjustment in Government assistance in this direction. However, this does not arise at the moment and the Opposition supports the Bill. 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry seen a report on wool prices which appeared in yesterday's 'Financial Review'., which pointed out that wool prices could go even lower and which stated that 70's quality wool is 34c per pound cheaper, 64's is dawn 25c and 60's is J 9c cheaper than the prices ruling at the same time last year? The article pointed out that the average price now is 30.33c per pound, which is lower than the cost of production. As this price of 30.33c has been maintained only by the purchase of 20 per cent of the clip by the Australian Wool Commission and there seems little likelihood of an immediate improvement, what does the Government propose to do to alleviate the depression in the wool industry? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation. In. view of the new hard line taken by appeal and assessment tribunals of the Repatriation Department, the chairmen of which are legal officers capable of conducting searching crossexamination on repatriation requirements, will the Minister take steps to amend the Repatriation Act to permit an appellant against an entitlement or assessment decision of the Department to be represented by a legal officer? 
I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate a question. While the Government is searching for material on the matter of the sale of aircraft from the Royal Australian Air Force to various people, will the Minister try to find out whether  Mr Alexander  Barton, whose activities seem to extend into the Meld of Stanair and Jetair Australia Ltd, is the same person who has raised tens of millions of dollars from the public for dubious projects, one being an opal as big as the Ritz? Can the Minister say whether Stanair (US) is a bona fide overseas company and whether there is any connection between Stanair and Jetair? 1 could also add hot air to these companies. 
I have so many helpers it is almost impossible to answer the question. I can give only the information I have.- If everybody keeps interjecting I will never get finished. As I have said, a further 5 DC3 aircraft have been declared to my Department by the RAAF. In other words, they are for disposal. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI do not know. If I knew I would tell you. Tenders have been called for three of these aircraft but the conclusion of sales awaits the assurance of the Department of Civil Aviation that the sales meet the particular requirements. Tenders have yet to be called for the remaining 2 aircraft. 
I direct my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. In view of the apparent irregularities in the acquisition of aircraft from a private company by a government department for the purpose of making a gift to Cambodia, will the Minister have a search made of the books of the companies Jetair Australia Ltd or Stanair (US) to ascertain whether any member of the Government is connected with those companies? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI do not understand the honourable senator's reference to an irregularity. I do not know that there really was any irregularity. There was certainly no irregularity in respect of my Department. I do not see that the Government has a responsibility to probe shareholdings or persona) holdings in private companies. The Department of Supply disposes of aircraft by tender. Whilst some people may think that the tender system sometimes proves to be unsatisfactory, in the long run, in view of the types of questions that are sometimes asked here, I say thank God that we do it that way. 
 Senator Sim  sounded like a cracked record, with his continuous repetition of the phrase 'the freely expressed will of the people'. He used it so often that I was starting to wonder whether he knew, exactly what he was talking about in. regard to the people of Papua and New Guinea. The motion before the Chair at the moment, which was moved by  Senator .  Greenwood, is an attempt to make political capital out of the visit of  Mr Whitlam,  the Leader of the Opposition in another place, to New Guinea. The motion has fizzed back in  Senator Greenwood's  face and the faces of other honourable senators on the Government side. It is obvious that the last 2 speakers from that side have been on the defensive 

 Senator Sir Magnus Cormack spoke with the true voice of a classical colonialist. Instead of stating the Government's policy, he tried to spread confusion and fear about the meaning' and consequences of self government. He painted a fantasy, perhaps, for consumption by people in Australia who do not know Very much and have never been told very much about our administration and trusteeship of Papua and New Guinea, and also in the hope that indigenous people in Papua and New Guinea might -be listening to the broadcast of this debate. He was trying to create in their minds fears and anxieties that could be nourished in order' to make them Oppose their right to self determination, self government and independence. 
As a matter offact, there is very little difference between' our' attitude towards New Guinea and that' stated in the matter of urgency now before the Chair. It refers to: " 
The "need' to affirm the policy of the Australian' Government of not imposing upon the people of ' the Territory of Papua and New Guinea- self government or: independence ... ., 
There is no intention to impose self government and independence on the people of Papua and New Guinea, but there is  a  challenge by people throughout the world to people in Australia to grant the people of Papua and New Guinea self government and independence. It is just a matter of when and how. The resolution of the General Assembly of the United Nations of 14th December  1970  states: 
The General Assembly . . . calls upon the administering Power to prescribe, in consultation with freely elected representatives of the people, a specific timetable for the free exercise by the people of Papua and the Trust Territory of New Guinea of their right to self determination and independence . . . 
A report has to be made at the meeting to be held at the end of this year. I suggest that this Government, if it has any respect at all for its image in world affairs, is duty bound to carry out the wish of the United Nations by prescribing a specific timetable for the free exercise by the people of Papua and New Guinea of their right to selfdetermination. 
The United Nations General Assembly voted  98  to nil, with  5  abstentions, in favour of that call to the Government of Australia to prescribe a timetable. One does not have to use much imagination to know who were among the  5  abstainers. Australia was one, just following the form of the people who are in government here. The way we have treated our own native people - our Aboriginals - is no credit to the people of Australia. Now we are getting into the position that our reputation throughout the world is being challenged on the basis of our treatment of the people of Papua and New Guinea. 
No, I quoted the resolution. The Australian Government should not continue to tarnish our international reputation by having us branded as one of the last colonial powers on earth. Every other country in our region has fought for or has been granted independence over the past  25  or  30  years. Our nearest neighbour, Indonesia, was able to cast off the yolk of the colonialist Dutch but unfortunately we notice that the Dutch are now trying to creep back on the economic level. Recently I read of American motor car manufacturers returning to the area to exploit it, just as the oil companies are returning under the guise of making a new approach to development of the area. 
Nevertheless, the people of Indonesia did throw off the yolk of colonialism. Britain - this is what we intend to do to Papua and New Guinea - granted independence to the Indians, the Pakistanis and the Kashmiris. Britain granted independence to the people of Malaya but had to support them to ensure that the form of government she wanted to establish there was in fact established. Britain had to provide troops to maintain the status quo. Independence was granted to Burma but, to our everlasting shame, we are helping to deprive the people of Vietnam of their independence. We are obliged to justify our actions in the world forum. We have been called upon to set a timetable for the self-government and independence of Papua and New Guinea. We have been laggard in the creation of educational opportunities in the Territory and in the political education of its people. We have adopted the role of exploiters there, the people themselves participating in the wealth of their country only as second class citizens. The wages that are paid  f  them are a disgrace. Possibly they are aa low as those of any country in South East Asia. In this day and' age we are paying plantation workers wages ranging from  $3  to  $5  a week yet they have to pay the same prices for the necessaries of life as do these who are receiving  10, 20  or even  30  times their wage. 
We believe that full self-government could be given to and would be accepted by the people of Papua and New Guinea in  1972.  In the interim we have to give them true democratic government, all members of the Legislature being elected by the people for the people. We are playing the charade of having selected members in the Legislature of the Territory who in turn are answerable to ' and are dominated by Canberra. Everyone will admit that Canberra is holding the strings on Papua and New Guinea and does not want to release them. The Government has been loath to make any public statement about a timetable for independence for Papua and New Guinea. 
Would the Government accept a vote of the New Guinea House of Assembly if the officially nominated members were excluded and the locally elected members were permitted to decide for themselves? If such a vote  were  taken  now  it is likely that the House would vote along the lines of the target dates which- have been set down by Labor, namely, self-government  in  1972 and independence, in  1976? -. There  is  nothing wrong with the prescription of that timetable. The only criticism that  Senator Greenwood  was able to level" at the statements made by the Leader of the Opposition  in  another -place-  was  in that regard. But Labor has- been honest enough to. set a target. If it is not possible to achieve selfgovernment by 1972 and independence by 1976, that does not matter.. Self-govern- ' ment could be achieved in 1973, 1974 or 1975 and independence in 1976, 1977. 1978 or even 1980. But at least  we  are working towards a target. We are prepared to formulate a plan .fo bring about this desirable situation in the Territory but the Government has given the people of Aus. . tralia no information, about its policy in relation to Papua and New Gunea, and it certainly is keeping the indigenous people in the dark. 
The Government is part and parcel of the exploitation of the indigenes by Australian expatriates. The native people 'have been exploited by the white people for 100 years. The Germans looked upon the Territory purely as a colony and the people have inherited from the Germans, and from those who followed, the - abomination of their language. This in itself will be to the everlasting shame of those who have administered the Territory over the years. We heard  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack say tonight that there are many in Papua and New Guinea who are engendering hatred of the white people and of those who would like to grant independence  to  the Territory simply to maintain the status quo. Their argument always is that the Territory is not ready  for  self-government, but that is an attitude typical of colonial powers and  it  smacks very much of racial superiority. 
We live in a region populated by .1,000 million Asians; most of whom have been under privileged for centuries. Every day that we stand astride Papua and New Guinea as a colonial power adds to the bank of ill will that is building up against us. To see this one has only to look  at  the way  in  which our nearest neighbours among whom are Japan, Indonesia, India and various others with whom we have to live and to whom we are geographically adjacent, &gt; have voted in the United Nations. I believe that the report of the United Nations Mission will again stress the world view that Australia is acting as a colonial power in Papua and New Guinea. Our reputation will again be blackened by an adverse report which will emphasise the fact that we have not yet specified a timetable for independence. The numerous coloured nations in the United Nations will note again our support for so many reactionary things like supplying arms to South Africa and participating in the war in Vietnam, and we will be labelled as a racist nation. We should be proving to the world that that is not true -yet. by our actions, we are giving substance to the belief that it is true. We should be relieving the- pressures that are building up because, if we do not act soon, there could be disintegration under those pressures with tribal groups breaking away. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Wood)  - Order! The honourable, senator's time has expired. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Civil Aviation. Were 39 pilots employed by Jetair Australia Ltd, which would show considerable activity by this company in airline operations under a concession from the Department of Civil Aviation? Has any provision been made for the re-employment of the pilots who have been dismissed? How does a company of the size of Jetair, having so many staff employed, operate on such a scale within the 2-airline agreement? 
I think the speech of the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman)  illustrates the Government's arrogant. . cynicism towards the Parliament, to which  Senator Milliner  referred. The Minister ..took the attitude that he has adopted on previous occasions. 
However. 1 am sure that  Mr Crawford,  the New South Wales Minister for Agriculture, would be shivering in his shoes in his wool growing electorate of Barwon if the Labor Party were to distribute there copies of  Senator Drake-Brockman's  speech. The proposition put forward by the Minister for Air that the Australian Wool Industry Conference is superior to the Senate would not be accepted by 5 per cent of the Australian people-, yet the Minister made that a defence of his policy. The argument that the decision was taken by the Senate, which resolved- by -a majority that the ban on merino exports should not be lifted without a referendum of wool growers, and not by the Parliament, is specious. What is the function of the Senate if it. is not to act as a House of review of govern-: ment legislation and Executive action? 
If the view is taken that a resolution of the Senate can be' held in contempt and ignored, those who' express that view strike a serious blow at the value of the Senate and the bicameral system. The Government has refused to conduct a referendum of wool growers. The Minister has said that if the industry wishes to change its previous decision on March 16th the matter will be reconsidered by the Government. That is exactly what we have been asking for. but the Minister has said that he wants the industry to express its' view. We and the Australian Council of Trade Unions say that if the Parliament expresses its view and if the industry expresses its view through a referendum everyone will be satisfied and this matter will be resolved. Wc are now considering a motion which states that the Government has shown a contemptuous disregard for Parliament by partially lifting the ban on the export of merino rams. 
This matter has been debated on a number of occasions. We consider that the former Minister for Primary Industry, who is now the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony),  over that period has taken a most undemocratic attitude. Although he is aware of the feelings of the Senate, having been reminded of them, and although there have been' deputations and petitions from various sections of the Wool growing industry, he has insisted on a partial lifting of the ban on  the export of merino rams. In my belief he has acted on the advice of a very small section- a rump - of the Aus tralian Wool Industry Conference which traditionally has been known as a lobby for the bigger wool growers and particularly for the stud breeders. In doing this the Minister has contemptuously ignored the resolution of the Senate. Action to lift the ban on the export of merino rams should not be permitted until there has been a referendum of the producers of merino wool within the industry. 
Surely the debates that have taken place over the last 2 years have had some impact on honourable senators opposite who must be aware that many predictions that we made in those debates have come true. Why is there such a strong desire among Government supporters to avoid the true voice of the Parliament when it endorses our view or rejects Government policy? in the past we have heard from honourable senators opposite professions of their belief in the Senate as a Bouse of review and they have said that they uphold the arms of the Parliament. The Senate is an important arm of the Parliament and its voice should not bc ignored. It is a matter of wonderment to me that Government supporters continue to maintain face in their electorates when they have made such a complete turn about in their attitude to the Senate and the export of merino rams. I cannot understand how members of the Australian Country Party have the temerity to face their electors when every one of our primary industries, right across the board, has little or no prospect of improvement of its economic position in the foreseeable future. This is true particularly of the. wool industry. How can these members justify themselves to their electors? 
I know that the Tasmanian farmers have a very strong influence on stud breeders of merino rams and  I  know that a lobby has been going on in Tasmania for a long time. Nevertheless, I do not intend to get away from the point that we are asking for a referendum of the people concerned - the wool growers - so that they may decide their destiny. I should- like to present my argument in my own way without the cockies crying from the fence. As an illustration of what has happened since this matter was last debated in the Senate, at the ram sales held recently in Sydney the worst prices experienced for decades were received. That is an indication of the parlous state of the stud industry in Australia. 
Now we have it. They want quick cash at the expense of other Australian wool growers. Therein lies the whole secret behind the Government's action. This is a pay-off to a certain section of the wool industry to allow it to sell merino rams, in the same way as our great natural resources are being sold at a rock bottom price. 1 admit that the sale of the Australian strain of merino rams is not quite the same; there is a vast difference, as a matter of fact, lt illustrates that there are people who are prepared to cash in at the expense of the future of the industry. 
The honourable senator asked the same question last time and I told him that the Australian people and particularly the Australian wool growers have a very deep and abiding interest in their industry. We are trying to protect their interests. 
I propose to develop my own argument to show that what has happened' is what we predicted would happen to the wool industry when this matter was last debated. At wool sales held recently the price of 60s quality wool was 19c per lb lower than it was a year ago, 64s quality was down 25c and 70s was 34- cheaper. The average price of greasy wool last week was 30.33c compared with 39.58c a year ago. Those prices illustrate that the whole of the Australian wool industry is in a critical situation. 
1 can verify the statements that 1 made 12 months ago and 2 years ago by events that are happening at present. I should like to make the point that the Australian Wool Commission found it necessary over this period to buy in nearly all the medium and fine descrip tions - about 20 per cent of the total offering. Yet it is in this very area that the stud breeders of Australia want to supply our competitors with our unique Australian merino strain. We find that by hook or by crook the Government wants to export our medium to fine merino rams to breeders in other parts of the world who last year were prepared to pay $120,000 for 47 merino rams to enable them to breed this type of wool rather than buy it on the Australian market. There is no doubt that countries purchasing the rams have much to gain by introducing the Australian merino strain into their flocks. Just in the sheer weight factor alone, the cut per head of the Australian merino would exceed any other breed in the world. This genetic feature is predominant in the Australian merino ram and is desired by merino sheep breeders in other parts of the world. Then there is the quality of the wool - the length of the' fibre and the elasticity of the product. 
I wrote it myself. The brightness and the. relatively high clean scoured yield are. also features that are highly desirable in combing wools. On the other hand, our selected stud breeders who would be given a quota of rams to. sell would most certainly .like - to supply this avid world demand. -.As I have said already, the price of , rams slumped disastrously at the last sales. Do Government supporters expect overseas buyers to continue to pay the high prices paid last year and which were an incentive to stud breeders to supply this world market? Are they hopeful that these high prices will continue? With the depression that is now existing in ram sales we will find that overseas people will want to cash in on the state of the market. The action of the Government in this matter' is just as reprehensible as are its actions' in so many areas of rural industry. It has failed the primary producer in every way, right across the board. 
The realisation that the rural crisis is real is evidenced by the report of the Bureau of Agricultural. Economics which states that the industry is facing a long term crisis. By supplying our competitors with the wherewithal to compete with our product we will prolong that crisis. 
This report "plainly states that too many producers are attempting to earn a living in the sheep industry under the present situation. It is enevitable that many of them will be unable or unwilling to remain on their properties. Many of them will leave the industry with' little capital remaining. There are strong economic as well as welfare reasons for assisting these people to new employment. To send out of this country the rams that produce some of the main features of our wool - the wool that provides the return to the wool growers, uneconomic though it is at the moment - is' not the way to assist them. L Say again: The Government is strangely' silent about equating this situation with the sale of our exclusive blood lines to the very competitors who wish to enter the market and who have the benefit of lower cost structures. 
The wool growers, along with all primary producers, have to face, up to the highly significant dark cloud facing Australia - the entry of Britain into the European Economic Community. As we have found, duties are being imposed on Australian produce. They will continue to be imposed when the British arrangements are concluded, lt is estimated that $200m worth of Australian exports to" Europe and the United Kingdom are at risk following Britain's entry into the European Economic Community. . 
I would like to quote 'from the report of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics which was sent to the State Premiers and State Ministers for Agriculture. Amongst many other interesting observations, according to this report, the Bureau said: 
At least a third' of the sheep industry is facing significant economic and/or financial pressures' - even with a break in the drought and, the assumption of a 'reasonable recovery' in wool prices. In Queensland and Western Austrafia perhaps as many as 10 and 15 per cent of properties have nil or very limited chances of continued operation, and a further 20 lo 30 per cent have financial difficulties. In Victoria, and probably in the other remaining States, those with very little chance of continued operation could well constitute 5 per cent or even more, with a further 15 to 20 per cent having financial difficulties.- 
A very detailed survey in Western Australia showed that of 14.200 sheep and wheat properties only 6,700 to 7,700 were in a reasonable financial situation. 
This report goes on to say: 
There is no way of determining just how long these people will hang on. It will probably be another .year or so before' .the. majority of them realise the inevitability of their failure". . . 
The report continues:. 
In Western Australia $120m 'is required to salvage the  'doubtfuls', leaving  aside completely the question of how the 'hopeless' are to be helped to reestablish themselves outside. 
I am quoting from this' report to show that the Government is dealing to the people involved in wool production a death blow at a time when sp many of them are struggling for viability and financial stability. We know very .well that the return on investment, in the land is lower than any other investment available throughout this Commonwealth, lt is a scandal that a body of responsible people will fake action such as that which is the subject of this debate for it will continue to undermine this traditionally great industry . upon which Australia has relied for so long. 1 would like to Conclude by quoting from an observation which I think is of some value. It relates to the policy recommended by the Australian Wool Industry Conference, by members of the Country Party and by the "'new Deputy Prime Minister, the Minister for Trade and Industry. I refer to the ' decision to establish the Australian Wool - Commission. I will quote from an article.. by Peter Samuel which appeared in 'The Bulletin' of 13th February. Amongst other things he said: 
But let's have a look at what 'economy' could mean if it was accompanied by bold re-thinking. 
One quick method would be to shelve the new Wool Commission, which looks a greater disaster every day it operates in the wool auctions. It is now shaping up as a ''major' political liability . . . Many analysts think that by the time  Mr Gorton  next goes .to the polls the Commission may have cost the taxpayers of Australia over $10Om while having done nothing whatever to help wool growers, out of their present plight. lt is stockpiling wool at a rapid rale, and for the moment it is probably true, as  Sir William  Gunn has claimed, that the Government has placed no limit on its funds. 
Unless the price of. wool rises significantly - and no-one without an axe to grind' thinks it will - the Government is going to be : seriously embarrassed by the Wool Commission.!' J.T it simply goes on spending, lens of millions pf taxpayers' dollars to buy up wool it will be starving the world textile industry of raw wool and accelerating the shift to synthetics, while at the same time creating an unprecedentedly huge stockpile overhanging the market and keeping traders in a bearish frame of mind. On the other hand., if the Government gets the Commission to sell off its stockpiled wool it will be depressing prices and almost certainly selling at a loss. 
I quoted this to illustrate how wrong are the Government's policies towards the woo] industry. There is not one section of our primary industry, right across the board- 
 I oppose the Government's policy for rural industries, particularly that section of it which we are debating, the lifting of the embargo on the export of merino rams. I am showing how the Country Party has led the Government and the Executive up the path. The producers cannot take a trick.. The remnant of this wonderful sector of the Australian economy is in shreds. This Government ;has left the entire industry without any great confidence in any of its products. We 
Gould  speak of the pear growers in Victoria, or the sugar growers, the wheat growers, the wool growers or the fat lamb producers- in fact any of the others. In fact, there is very little hope for an improvement in the future for any of these industries. This is What the Country Party, advising the Government, has done. 
The Country Party has brought this particular industry to its . knees. This is the worst of the grievous faults of the Country Party because the merino ram is so fundamental to this country. The Government is promoting the sale of this exclusive, strain, the merino, that is wanted in every other country. It also is wanted here in order to enable producers to keep improving the cut per head and the quality of our wool as it has done over the years. 
 We want to retain the rams so that they can continue to improve the quality of the Australian wool flock in order that it can hold its place proudly as it has done through the years. Because of the narrow mindedness, the short sightedness, the arrogance and the contempt that the Government holds towards the Parliament and the Senate, as well as the wool growers of Australia, we of the Opposition believe that this motion, which is virtually. a censure motion, should be carried. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. In view of the widespread concern in Tasmania about the ambiguity between State and Commonwealth government policy relating to the construction of the important Launceston-Bell Bay rail link, will the Minister obtain an indication as to whether there has been any alteration in priority for the commencement of this economically feasible and most essential project? 
My question is addressed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. As the Government says that it will cut governmental spending to reduce inflationary pressures caused by the Government's Budget last August, will it now consider the enormous savings to be made by immediately bringing back all our troops from Vietnam, thus cutting heavily into the $400m a year which it is costing us to have Australia involved in this futile adventure? Will it consider launching an immediate inquiry into the huge savings to be made by drastically curtailing the immigration programme which was recently estimated to be costing us about S 1,400m a year? Will it consider abandoning the Jervis Bay nuclear power station project at a saving of over $100m? Will it consider also immediately cancelling the Fill contract and the alternative deal to lease 
Phantom fighters, thus saving several hundred million dollars on obsolescent military hardware? 
My question is addressed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Will he state explicitly the Australian Government's attitude towards the British Government's decision to sell helicopters to South Africa? Does the Government agree with this move to give military support to racialist South Africa, a decision which flouts the United Nations Security Council embargo on arms sales to the Vorster regime which is supporting Rhodesia, which is defying the British Government? If the Government disagrees with the spirit and intention of the British decision, will it support the United States of America, Canada, Malaysia and the African Commonwealth nations in any diplomatic action to prevent the arms sale? 
The views of the Government have been expressed before. In the circumstances  I  think the question should go on notice. 
 My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Services, ls it a fact that a survey compiled by the Department of Social Services has revealed that 50,000 pensioners are inadequately housed, most of them in hovels in the inner suburbs of our capital cities? If this is so, does it not emphasise the urgency of granting an immediate pension increase pending a total restructuring of our broken down and inedaquate social welfare system? If the survey is complete, will the Minister table it as soon as possible? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Does the report recently presented to the Government on the use of cars in the Department of Supply car pool- 
I am sorry, it is the Department of the Interior. Does it indicate a possible reduction in this fleet? Is the Minister aware that queues of people in Canberra wait for taxis which are unavailable because they are busily engaged doing government work? Is he aware that the shortage is so acute that hire and drive cars are being used for taxi work? Does the Minister know whether sufficient taxi licences have been granted to cope with the growing population? Will the Minister direct that an inquiry be made and a report presented to the Senate on the inadequate services available to the citizens of Canberra and visitors to the national capital? 
This is a matter which would come within the portfolio of the Minister for the Interior. Unless I get some indication from the Minister who represents the Minister for the Interior in this chamber that he wants lo add something at this point of time, I shall simply undertake lo convey the honourable senator's comprehensive question to the Minister for the Interior for his reply. 
I can well understand that some of the problems to which  Senator O"  Byrne has referred in his question in relation to the fleet of cars would occur. I know that the Department of Supply, which has its own fleet of cars, has similar problems in deciding whether it can supply enough vehicles during the peak load period and whether it should call on the hire car services and taxis for assistance in certain circumstances. I do not know whether the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior has anything further to add. 
ls the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry aware of the significance of a report in the Melbourne 'Sun' of today's dateline headed Tasmanian Wool Sale A Disaster' and stating that wool men described the Launceston wool sales as the most disastrous for years, representing a fall in prices of up to 65 per cent in the overall clip compared with last year, despite the purchase by the Australian Wool Commission of 60 per cent of the merino clip? Does the Minister realise that this slate of affairs can put the future of this traditional supply of. Tasmanian fine merino wool in jeopardy? Will the Minister get a report on the situation with a view to inaugurating a plan to preserve this important part of Tasmania's economy and to ensure that this section of the wool industry does not fade out? 
The Opposition is not trying to duck the issue in this debate. The Bill seeks to amend the Australian National University Act, the issue being that there should be representation of the Australian National University Students Association on the Council of the University. All honourable senators would agree that that would be desirable. Not only would it bring about a greater understanding and an exchange of communication but also it would be educational for both the older people and the younger people to meet together on the councils of the University. 1 can assure  Senator Young  that we are not trying to duck the main issue, if the Bill hail been introduced last week, prior to the publication of the magazine to which reference has been made, the Senate would have agreed unanimously - if not in writing, in principle - to this amendment:  but the Senate believes thai a university student body seeking representation in the control of a university has a sense of responsibility and a regard for the good name of the university. 
I am quite certain  -  I can speak from my knowledge of members of various university organisations - that these people hold their universities in very high esteem and that they are men of responsibility. But this great issue has arisen as though it was world shattering. We have to admit that, throughout our lives, individually or collectively, we have come in contact with material similar to that contained in the publication to which T referred. Some people are prepared to accept it; others object to it. The matter is entirely a matter of individual judgment as to what should be done with material such as this. Publication of this material cannot be prevented. 
I have always held to the adage that I am not my brother's keeper. 
 The public purse can be protected in proper, legal ways. To add an inflammatory and an emotional amendment such as that moved by  Senator McManus  to an important Bill concerning the highest seat of learning in our land would be foolish. If the amendment is accepted, we would be looked at with contempt by those who think the Senate should not spend its valuable time because of a quick and emotional response to something which was not of the University's making and not of the University Student Association's design. Evidently individuals have seen fit to do this sort of thing.  Senator Young  accused  Senator Murphy  of dragging morality into the issue.  Senator Young  said that he would be prepared to debate this at any time. I think the Senate should be judging the morality of students collectively. We should look at the matter in its proper perspective. f.f we bring morality into the issue, we should look at some of the moral problems that we could properly be discussing. One matter of morals is: Honour your father and your mother. But 50,000 mothers and fathers are living in hovels. This is a matter that we could quite easily be discussing if we wanted to discuss matters of morals.  Senator Murphy  drew attention to this matter of morals: Thou shall not kill. Yet photographs have been taken of Gls holding up the heads of 2 victims. The photographs are sent home as souvenirs. I have nol heard of any censorship of such photographs. Morality is relative; it is a matter of semantics. We could be discussing this matter: Thou shall not steal. In our society usury is the accepted order of the day - hire purchase, high interest rates, restrictive trade practices and the like, and stealing from one another. In this chamber there has been no debate on this matter of morals: Thou shalt nol bear false witness. Smearing people, Com-baiting and like matters could be discussed. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT  - Order!  Senator O'Byrne,  1 think you would be doing your argument and case a good deal of benefit if you returned lo the matters before the Chair. 
I will return to the amendment. I think it is a specious and an unworthy amendment because it deals with a situation that deserves to be dealt with by a tack hammer and not a sledge hammer. The matter could be dealt with at other levels, not at the Senate level. We would degrade the standard established in this legislation if we carried such an addendum to (he Bill. Unless we have confidence in our students and unless we are prepared to build them up and to give them opportunities to face the challenge of the future, we are doing them an injustice. I suggest that the Bill should be agreed to and that we should get on with the job of achieving greater unity, harmony and cooperation in the University. I ask the Senate to reject the amendment. 
The Defence Pay Bill 1971 is one of the most curious pieces of legislation to come before the Senate for many a long day. The Bill is described as a Bill to validate certain payments made to or in respect of members of the defence forces between 1961 and 1963, and to civilian employees of the Royal Australian Navy up to June 1969. The background to the Bill is investigations made by the Joint Parliamentary Committee of Public Accounts, and reported upon to the Parliament in 1960. It was as a result of a conscientious application to its duties that the Public Accounts Committee drew attention to this anomaly, which involved the sum of S50m. It was considered at the time that payments for certain extra allowances of a wide variety could be provided for by the issue of regulations, but this was found to be technically unlawful. I should say that it is a sad reflection on the administration of the Service departments that this type of ambiguity should have been perpetrated in the first place and then perpetuated for such a long period of time. 
It is a very interesting insight into the elasticity of the Treasury that the sum of $50m can be found from the appropriations for purposes for which no legal authority exists. If this matter had been dealt with at the time of the unlawful payments much more emphasis would have been placed on the principle involved, but the effluxion of time has dulled the edge of parliamentary and public criticism that most surely would have been directed at those responsible for allowing such a situation to develop. The Opposition can only hope that it will be a rare occurrence that legislation such as this will be introduced to validate actions of 7 to 10 years ago. This is retrospectivity in its most elastic form. The matter has been raised that this legislation was prepared for submission to the Parliament without the courtesy being paid of advising the Public Accounts Committee that the recommendations of its 50th, 52nd, 65th and 102nd reports had at long last been acted upon. This is an example of the need for continual vigilance to ensure that ministerial responsibility is exercised over regulations that can quite easily bypass the Parliament and, in particular, that the regulations of the Services shall be available for strutiny by the Regulations and Ordinances Committee. 
This measure is necessary to adjust a technical situation that arose some years ago. The explanation was given that not only a lack of staff in the Parliamentary Draftsman's office but also the rather monumental amount of research work that had to be done when this anomaly was discovered were the cause of the delay. I do hope, and I am sure that honourable senators opposite will agree with me, that legislation to validate an action such as this on the part of the administration will not come before the Parliament very frequently. In the light of my comments I would point out that the Opposition does not oppose this measure. 
 My question is addressed to the Leader of the Government. In view of the fact that the former Prime Minister who is now Minister for Defence is leaving this week for a 4-day visit to Vietnam and that the publicly stated reason for this visit is to assess the military position in Vietnam, I ask: Is it fair to expect a freshly appointed Minister for Defence who is racked by the humiliation of his recent fall from high office and who has only a hastily acquired concept of his new Department to be able to sum up the critical situation in Vietnam? Can the people of Australia be assured that with the security of our men in Vietnam becoming more in jeopardy each week  Mr Gorton  will use his visit to make arrangements for all our troops to be withdrawn from Vietnam as soon as possible? 
The honourable senator has mentioned that the Minister for Defence is going to Vietnam to assess the military situation, but having said that he suggests that the issue should be decided now during question time before the Minister makes his visit. That is an unusual suggestion to make by way of question. As to the honourable senator's statement about the Minister for Defence not having an appreciation of the defence position - and I think he used the words 'hasty concept'  -  I say that the Minister for Defence has always had a very clear understanding of Australia's defence both in his earlier portfolio as a Minister of one of the Services and then as Prime Minister. Obviously, in the final analysis the Prime Minister has to have a complete understanding of defence policies and organisation. 
I pass over the gratuitous hurt that was implied in the question. There comes a time to all men when circumstances change. The test of a man is whether he can put past events behind him.  Senator O'Byrne  is a man who once had it tough. He is putting the boot into another man who has had it tough. This is contrary to my code and I know that it is contrary to the code of all men who think about it for a moment or two. I am sure that  Senator O'Byrne  has not thought about the matter, otherwise he would not have couched the question in the language that he did. What 
I say to the honourable senators is that they can safely leave the mission that the Minister for Defence is undertaking to Vietnam to the Minister for Defence. 
 Mr Acting Deputy President,  the Bill before the Senate proposes alterations to the Cellulose Acetate Flake Bounty Act to provide for the payment of a bounty at the rate of 4c per lb with a maximum payment in any 1 year of $200,000 on cellulose acetate flake produced at registered premises and' sold for use in the manufacture of cellulose acetate rayon yarn on and after 1st December 1 970. While we do not oppose this measure, 1 feel that the background of this assistance to the industry is of sufficient interest for us to have a closer look at it than has been given in the past. 1 say this in view of the reports of the Tariff Board and because of the fact that the industry itself, although many of its submissions have been presented to the Tariff Board on a confidential basis, seems to be reaching the stage where, as a monopoly in this country, it is showing signs that it can face the future with perhaps quite a lot of confidence. 
Tariff and bounty assistance on vinyl and cellulose acetate was recommended originally in a report and recommendations from the Tariff Board in 1964. in a report in 1966, the Board recommended that vinyl acetate and other chemicals for which it was proposing a general rate of 60 per cent should have their protective needs reviewed within a reasonable period with an aim of reducing the protection to a more acceptable level. A review of cellulose acetate flake also was recommended in that report. This is actually the substance of the Bill that we are debating now. 
CSR Chemicals Ltd is the only acetate manufacturer in Australia. Besides cellulose acetate flake, it is producing vinyl acetate and a number of other acetatal products. They are being produced in an integrated factory complex at Rhodes in New  South  Wales, lt also produces other materials at Lane Cove. These raw materials are available then for sale for acetate rayon yarn. This company has plans which it expected to bring to fruition about this time, lt will change the process of production from ethyl alcohol to ethylene, and this I understand will bring more efficiency into the production of this commodity. 
Details of funds that have been available were supplied confidentially to the Tariff Board. The value of the funds that are employed will increase with the installation of the new plants expected to cost about $6m. In its 'Vinyl Acetate: Cellulose Acetate Flake (Interim Report: Industrial Chemicals and Synthetic Resins - Review)', the Board states: 
However, the Board noted, in this connection, that the bounty has provided more than half the profits made on C.A. flake and that, for all acetyl products, the rate of profit is  heavily  influenced also by the effect on funds of the extent to which plant has already been depreciated. For certain major items of plant, this latter situation will be reversed when the new acetaldehyde and V.A.AI. plants are brought into production. 
The Board drew attention to the fact that 288 persons were employed in the production and sale of acetyl products at the time of the interim inquiry. During the course of the investigation the Board found that the 1968 estimate of existing and future demand for vinyl acetate, confidentially supplied by CSR Chemicals Ltd and Monsanto Australia Ltd, was about 6,000 tons, lt expected an annual growth rate of 4 per cent over the next 4 years. That brings us up to the present time. It is in this respect that I believe the bounty pay able should be reassessed. Possibly this is the last occasion on which the Parliament will be asked to subsidise this industry at such a substantial level. The Board also drew attention to this fact: 
The company was reluctant to supply costs at most economical levels of output, apparently on the assumption that the Board would calculate price disadvantages direct from these costs without considering other relevant factor!. 
The Board said also: 
No specific evidence relating (o the local industry's cost disabilities was available, but differences in scales of production, high distribution costs and high labour costs were stated to be factors causing cost disabilities. The available price information suggests a relatively high level of disability. 
Nevertheless, it is evident that the alterations that have been made in the production techniques will overcome many of these disabilities. The Board went on lo say: 
The Board considers, for reasons outlined in earlier reports, that if assistance is to be accorded C.A. flake the most appropriate method would be by bounty, lt considers that a bounty of 4c per lb would accord adequate assistance to the local production. . . . 
The Board's calculations indicate that assistance at these levels would, in conjunction with profits from sales of other acetyl products, result in a reasonable return on funds for the whole complex. 
The Board then recommended that the bounty should be payable until 31st December 1973. 
Possibly this will be one of a great number of Tariff Board reports that will come before the Parliament and that will bc given more scrutiny in view of the growth occurring in recent times in many of these companies where the demand has grown and where the technique has improved. However, it is now March 1971, and the recommendation is for the period to December 1973. I am hoping that in this period this company which has control of practically all the sales of this commodity in this country will be able to claim that through the assistance the Government has given it in the past it is possible for the company lo produce competitively a commodity which contributes to the economy of the country without the assistance of bounty. For that reason we believe that we can recommend the adoption of this measure and that the company itself will realise that it has to be able to produce evidence for future bounties that will be under greater scrutiny in the next 2 or 3 years. We support the measure. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. As the South Vietnamese invasion of Laos is now recognised as a disaster, with almost half the invading army listed as killed, wounded or missing, will the Government look hard at the reality of the Indo-China war and withdraw all our troops now? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Has the Commonwealth Government accepted the establishment of an Omega installation on Australian territory and has Tasmania been chosen as the likely site for such an installation? Is not the Omega network associated with the use of nuclear weapons, especially submarine missile carriers, which would draw nuclear retaliation on its sites? Has the New Zealand Government refused to allow an Omega station to be installed on its territory? Would the installation of an Omega station in Tasmania constitute that State as a nuclear target? 
I think the question should be directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. 
The Bill proposes to amend  the 
Customs Act 1901-1968 in relation to the manner of payments of customs duties and in relation to refunds, rebates or remissions of those duties. Clause 3 of the Bill contains a proposal to repeal section 137 of the Act which requires that payments of duties be made in Australian currency. The original provision was made in 1901. This provision that payments of duties be made in Australian or British currency has been perpetuated through the years. The Department of Customs and Excise, as a result of a tidying up many sections of the Customs Act in relation to cheques and other currency which is legal tender, finds that this provision should be repealed. The provision has hampered the conduct of customs business by raising a legal barrier against such things as guaranteed cheques, foreign currency and other bank guarantees although such methods of payment were known to be acceptable everywhere else. 
Existing sections 163, 164 and 164a of the Customs Act provide authority for granting refunds, rebates or remissions of duty in prescribed circumstances and subject to prescribed conditions and requirements. The absence of specific authority in section 163 to permit the prescribing of selective requirements for particular goods or for particular classes of goods gives rise to administrative difficulties as 'commodity control' procedures are progressively introduced by the Department of Customs and Excise. It will be recalled that, with regard to the handling of the importation of petroluem products, ths new concept of commodity control' brought about a lot of economies and a speeding up of procedures which, in turn, required the introduction of this provision which gives the Department the right to carry out selective and random checks of companies' commercial documentation, reinforced by occasional or regular checks. 'Commodity control' has streamlined the procedure in the Department of Customs and Excise. With the authority for the adoption of progressive procedures and practices, it is necessary to introduce provisions for refunds. To do this, the Department needs flexibility. These amendments provide this flexibility. So we will see now the development of a practice which will give to the Department of Customs and Excise specific authority for the granting of refunds, rebates or remissions of duty and also a practice by which the Customs Regulations may prescribe differing conditions and requirements to apply to different goods or classes of goods. 
The Opposition does not oppose the measure. We believe that, as the technique of handling imports that are liable to the imposition of customs duties improves, the smoother the operation is made the better it is for all concerned. Therefore, we believe that we should not take up any more time of the Senate except to say that the amendments are desirable ones and ones which are well overdue. They will provide for the acceptance of currencies other than Australian or British currencies for the payment of duties due to the Treasury through customs. Therefore, we do not oppose the measure. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I draw his attention to the world cable service of the 'Australian' of today's date which states that  President  Nixon intends to increase the withdrawal rate of American troops from South Vietnam, that it is expected that the withdrawal rate will be increased from 12.500 to 15,000 per month and that the  President  will be completing his assessment of the situation in South Vietnam this week. In view of the fact that the former Prime Minister,  Mr Gorton,  said publicly that Australian troop withdrawals from Viet nam would be a matter of one out all out, what factors operated to change the Government's mind in deciding to pull out only some of the troops? Will the Government take the public into its confidence and say now when ail our troops will be withdrawn? 
Listed on the notice paper for debate is a ministerial statement which deals with a significant phased reduction of our forces in Vietnam, commencing in May. At this point of time 1 do not think I have anything to add to that statement, bearing in mind the honourable senator's question. lt may well be that at a later hour of the day. if we dispose of certain Bills, we will be debating this statement. I think that would give  Senator O'Byrne  the opportunity to speak on the subject if he so wishes. The present situation is that the statement has been made by the Prime Minister. On his behalf, I have made that statement here, ft is on the notice paper. Subject to our functioning here today, it may well be that we will be debating the statement. 
 My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. No doubt he is aware of developments in South Africa - 'apart hate' - where sport and politics have become inseparably combined over the inclusion by the South African Cricket Association of 2 non-whites in the South African team to visit Australia. I ask: Will the Government prevail on the Australian cricket authorities to scrap the tour unless these coloured cricketers are allowed to join the team, and so alleviate the undoubted tension which is rapidly building up in this country in protest against racial discrimination in South Africa? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI think the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs should respond to the honourable senator's question. 
Will the Minister for Civil Aviation have an inquiry made into the reason why last Friday, 2nd April, a Trans-Australia Airlines Fokker Friendship aircraft, carrying a full load of passengers including the Minister for Defence and a number of parliamentarians, amongst whom was myself, proceeding to Melbourne and other destinations, was dispatched from Canberra terminal only to wait for 40 minutes at the end of the runway before takeoff because of Royal Aus- - tralian Air Force requirements? Will the Minister advise what liaison exists between the RAAF and the civil airlines on such occasions? Will the Minister also have an inquiry made into the ventilation system of Fokker Friendship aircraft under conditions similar to those I have outlined when heavy exhaust fumes and carbon monoxide fumes were injected into the cabin through the air vents, causing headaches and extreme discomfort to passengers? 
The Opposition would like the opportunity to  have  an early debate on this important statement on foreign affairs. Could  we  have an assurance from the Government that it will accede to this request? I ask for leave to continue my remarks at a later date. 
Leave granted. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
Do over  1,100  young men now face prose cution for various breaches of the National Service Act. 
Is only one man now in jail for refusing to be conscripted despite this wide-spread defiance of the Act. 
Does this not indicate that the Government, facing massive disenchantment with its conscription and Vietnam policies, especially by its own Liberal youth branches, is not anxious to exacerbate the situation by jailing the draft resisters. 
When will the Government, in view of its economy drive, stop this hypocrisy by repealing the National Service Act and withdrawing all Australian troops from Vietnam. 
I am sure that the Leader of the Government in the Senate shares with other honourable senators deep sympathy for the victims of the tragedy of genocidal civil war in East Pakistan and the enormous human suffering involved in wars of this nature. I ask: Has the Government any plans to give aid to the hundreds of thousands of East Pakistani refugees crossing the border into India to escape the fighting in their own country? In view of the fact that India is doing her best to feed these distressed people but has called for outside aid in this great humanitarian task will the Government give urgent con sideration to giving extensive aid to India in the way of food, clothing and other things for this purpose. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI share the concern of  Senator O'Byrne,  and indeed all other honourable senators, at the tragedy in terms of human life that is taking place in Pakistan at present. I am not informed as to whether there has been any intervention on the . lines suggested by the honourable senator. I will seek some information and will make it available to him. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Does the Government genuinely need to increase the export of dairy products. 
Has the Dairy Produce Marketing Board undertaken to export a butter-margarine mixture containing 30 per cent margarine to Japan. 
Was legislation introduced to prohibit the presence of margarine in the same premises as butter at the time that the Country Party wanted to restrain the use of margarine. 
Does this situation show up the anomaly in the policy to disadvantage margarine and what does the Government propose to do to allow $10m worth of butter to be exported to a new market. 
Will the Minister take steps to have the prohibitions on margarine lifted. . 
Can the Leader of the Government in the Senate verify a report in yesterday's 'Age' of a speech by the former Minister for Defence,  Mr Malcolm  Fraser, in which he said that in future Western nations might not back non-Communist nations which were under threat and that Australia might have to act on its own initiative in future in making military commitments? He also said- 
I want to say a few words about these 3 little dots. I would like to say first that General Eisenhower was a great general. He had the equipment and the numbers to clean up in Europe. The main fighting that helped General Eisenhower to become such a great man was done in eastern Europe. The millions of people who laid down their lives in Europe are still not comprehended by the people of Australia and the United States of America. Many of the people of England, which was really involved in the European war, do not know of the sacrifices that were made on the land by human beings to defeat Fascism in Europe. General Eisenhower became great because the United States of America was able to sit back and inherit the greatness of the British Empire. 
Of course it did the same in the First World War. It did it twice. In doing so the United States inherited all the greatness and power of the British Empire. With the equipment that he had at his disposal and the great power that had been inherited, General Eisenhower went into Europe and mopped up after the main fighting had been done on the ground in eastern Europe and the Fascist Nazi army had been defeated. General Eisenhower then went back to the United States and started to talk about South East Asia, the next part of the world that was in Hitler's plan of domination, with Italy and Japan, of the world. The great patriots opposite are getting up and speaking because they think that the memories of the people of Australia have faded. 
You would not know anything. You would have been that far behind in the queue when any fighting was going on that you would not have been seen. You are Little by name and little by nature, so please do not interject. The great expert on South East Asia, General Eisenhower, went back to the United States a hero and great tributes were paid to him. He was hailed as the great scion of the Establishment, the man who won the war for the West, and he became President of the United States. That was typical of this front man. He then became the writer of scripture and, because someone left out some of his magic words and put in 4 dots the great Magnus had to get up here and put the record straight. 
Eisenhower said that if Indo-China fell that piece of land would be forgotten and the last great populated area would fall to the Kremlin. I notice that there is one sur vivor of the Australian Democratic Labor Party present. This is the type of thing that the Democratic Labor Party has been living on. It has survived on this myth of the Communists of the Kremlin and China raping women, of red arrows coming down and this type of thing. This type of propaganda has been foisted on the people of Australia because Australia is isolated in Asia. This strip of land in South East Asia and all the people that  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack spoke about will be outflanked and will become part of the Soviet empire! What sort of rubbish is this? What sort of propaganda is this? If honourable senators on the Government side are truthful to themselves, do they believe it? There is no hope of this area becoming part of the Soviet empire because the Vietnamese people have had a say in this. The Vietnamese people have said: 'We are not going to be a little strip of country which will be outflanked and become part of the Soviet empire.' Even before 1950 they overcame the Japanese. They overcame the French and they have overcome the Australians and the Americans. Their race will survive despite our great overall purpose of subduing them and subverting them. These people will survive as an ethnic race and will guide their own destiny. 
The kerfuffle put forward tonight by  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack about General Eisenhower's grand plan and the 4 dots comes down to this: Whatever we like to say in this Parliament, South East Asia is peopled with human beings who have a pride in their race and a pride in their destiny. They are not going to be subverted and subdued by mercenaries, of whom we are a part, who try to overcome them by the strength of arms. We are not going to be persuaded because there are 4 dots which indicate something is missing from Eisenhower's speech. Eisenhower was a stooge of the system. He will not live in history. He only helped to bring America into its present state of affairs where it is divided over this very issue of South Vietnam. 
This is true,  Senator. You  know it but you try to laugh it off. I will go one step further and refer to the rich empire of Indonesia. We saw this rich empire under the control of the 
Dutch. If ever an arrogant colonial power bestrode Indonesia it was the Dutch. They kept the people in subjugation and poverty. Then Sukarno took over. The Australian Government tried to do everything it could to destroy him. Now another military group has taken over in Indonesia and the Dutch are coming back there to establish the old colonial rule. This is a rich part of the empire. 
But we have to live with these people in South East Asia. Geographically we are part of Asia and we are a nation of only 12 million or 13 million. Our good old friends, the Eisenhower clique, the British and the other European people have left us adrift. They have formed their own trade union, the European Economic Community, and they are not going to worry about our future. The former Minister for Defence,  Mr Fraser,  admitted this in the last few days. He said that we have to look to our own resources and to the very people who are included in the area represented by the 4 dots about which  Sir Magnus  Cormack spoke. I want to put on record tonight that the rich empire of South East Asia- 
They had better run away. That is their form. They cannot stand the truth. 
 You cannot either.  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack went to  thi  trouble of referring tonight to the 4 dots in the extract from Eisenhower's speech. He referred to the deletion. We know what Eisenhower meant. Eisenhower had the great plan, the grand strategy, that the United States had the divine right, after the Second World War and after all the sacrifices by the satellites around the world. I refer to our troops from Australia, from New Zealand and all the other countries which contributed towards the destruction of a negative philosophy of Fascism which was the ultimate of capitalism. Eisenhower inherited this and his words of wisdom have to be quoted in this place in full. You could not afford to have dots inserted. Eisenhower's philosophy was that America had the prerogative and the responsibility of telling all these people in South East Asia how to run their business, and this has been going on ever since. That is why we are involved in the war in. Vietnam. That is why we are not participating in the possibility of exchanging trade with Indonesia, the Philippines, Malaya, Burma, Thailand, India, Ceylon, Nepal and all these other places. We have no claim to friendship with them. We have never done anything to warrant their friendship. This is the Eisenhower philosophy: Dominate these people and stop the Kremlin from taking over. This  war,  the fear instilled in the minds of people. 
That has been a false philosophy and that is what is wrong with Australia's foreign policy at the moment. We antagonise the people we should be cultivating, the Indonesians and others in South East Asia, by our attitude and our involvement in the Vietnam war. Australia is a wealthy neighbour and should be giving the maximum possible help to Indonesia. The Dutch, the Canadians and others are giving more to that country. They are doing more to help the Indonesians up the social scale while Australia is staying by the silly old shibboleths of the past, saying that Eisenhower's philosophy continues and is still valid, lt is not valid. His philosophy was negative and destructive. The policy of the United States in the past has led it into chaos, where it has nothing externally and very little internally. 
 I am hectoring you about this matter of the 4 dots and the story you told about them. We should not hang on to the old stupid idea that the white man is superior, that the empire and the colonial system have any place in the world. They have had their time in history. We are now on a watershed and have to measure up to the real issues. We are human beings and the brotherhood of man will exercise its power. It is going to exercise its power in Australia. All profit comes from the working men in Australia. Owners of industries have to rely on the working man for their profits. They either have to overcharge the consumer or exploit the employee in order to make their profits. This system has been challenged, thank goodness, and it is the crisis facing us in Australia. 
We have to be able to compete and exchange our goods on world markets otherwise we will be the onion in the petunia patch of South East Asia. We have to make friends with the people of Asia. We have no alternative. If we do not trade and exchange ideas and goods, then we will cease to exist economically. We have to forget the Eisenhower philosophy because the days of colonialism are over. The days of world domination by the United States are over. The days of internationalism, the days of the United Nations, the days of world federation of mankind are dawning. The honourable senator stood tonight and spoke about 4 dots which indicated that something was missing in a speech made by an insignificant politician like Eisenhower. Although he was a great general, he was a insignificant politician. Such an act is indicative of the myths and fallacies of this day and age. I think  Senator Keeffe  did well not to mention those 4 dots and  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack did an injustice to the cause in mentioning them tonight. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Is it not true that Australian Government aid to Asia as distinct from private capital investment is still extremely low and that our record there compares unfavourably with that of other countries? Is it true as alledged by  Mr J.  B. Webb, Director of Community Aid Abroad, that Holland gives nearly twice as much to Indonesia as Australia, that West Germany gives more to Indonesia than we give and that Canada gives more to South East Asia than we give although geographically we are part of the region? Does the Minister agree with  Mr Webb  when he states that Australia has yet to undertake seriously an aid role in Asia appropriate for a wealthy neighbouring country? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI do not agree that Australia's aid to South East Asia is significantly lower than that of other countries.  Senator O'Byrne  in dealing with the broad canvass of aid has dealt with Indonesia in isolation. I do not accept the statement that he makes. I shall set about getting a comprehensive statement relating to aid to South East Asia and produce the information in the Senate. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Air. Can it be inferred from his reply to a question by  Senator Bishop  recently about the possible need to order more Phantoms that there is now every indication that Australia will not be getting the Fills? If so, can the Minister take the public into his confidence and set out fully all the costs and cost penalties associated with purchasing our leased Phantoms as an alternative to the Fill? If austerity is to be the Government's cry, why does not it immediately settle this costly farce and make public the true cost of this incredible deal? 
I preface my question to the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior by stating that the right of trial in a court of law and the presumption of innocence are being transgressed by the quick punishment of intruders or trespassers by dogs trained to savage and even to kill. Is the Minister aware that German shepherd alsatian dogs are banned in many sheep breeding areas in Australia because they are notorious sheep killers? In view of the widespread horror felt at the shocking lacerations of an innocent 4-year old boy by a German shepherd guard dog, will the Minister for the Interior seriously consider banning the training and use of savage German shepherd alsatian dogs in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Health. As the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry and the Minister for Health have evaded questions about restrictions on the use of poly-unsaturated margarine, will the Minister for Health advise the Senate whether these restrictions apply in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory and what are the barriers against the removal of any restrictions which may exist? 
On 25th February this year I asked a question of the Minister for Supply  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  relating to transport and the taxi and hire car situation in Canberra. The question was redirected to the Minister for the Interior at that time whose department controls the granting of licences and the like. My question was: 
Does the report recently presented to the Government on the use of cars in the Department of Supply car pool - 
I then corrected my question and related it to the Department of the Interior. I said: 
Does it indicate a possible reduction in this fleet? Is the Minister aware that queues of people in Canberra wait for taxis which are unavailable because they are busily engaged doing government work? Is he aware that the shortage is so acute that hire and drive cars are being used for taxi work? Does the Minister know whether sufficient taxi licences have been granted to cope with the growing population? Will the Minister direct that an inquiry be made and a report presented to the Senate on the inadequate services available to the citizens of Canberra and visitors to the national capital? 
The Leader of the Government in the Senate said: 
This is  a matter  which would come within the portfolio of the Minister for the Interior. Unless I get some indication from the Minister who represents the Minister for the Interior in this chamber that he wants to add something at this point of time, I shall simply undertake to convey the honourable senators comprehensive question to the Minister for the Interior for his reply. I can well understand that some of the problems to which  Senator O'byrne  has referred in his question in relation to the fleet of cars would occur. I know that the Department of Supply, which has its own fleet of cars, has similar problems in deciding whether it can supply enough vehicles during the peak load period and whether it should call on the hire car services and taxis for assistance ki certain circumstances. I do not know whether the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior has anything further to add. 

 Senator Cotton said: 
I will convey the honourable senator's question to the Minister for the Interior. I have noted his comments about people having to queue for taxis and the possibility that insufficient taxi licences have been granted. 
I received a further reply from  Senator Cotton,  as Minister representing the Minister for the Interior. He said: 
The Minister for the Interior has provided the following reply lo the honourable senator's question: 
The report prepared for the Department by a firm of consultants sets out facts concerning the present usage of the passenger car service in Canberra. 
The number of taxi licences in Canberra Ls kept under continuous review to ensure that there are sufficient taxis to provide a reasonable service to all users including those travelling on government business. The existing level of taxi licences is considered to be satisfactory, having regard to the interests of the public and the taxi operators. It is inevitable that during periods of peak demand some delays will be experienced. This is a feature of the taxi industry in all major centres. 
The Department is in the process of setting up a Taxi Advisory Council which it is intended mI inquire into matters  such  as those raised in the question. 
I wish to ask the Minister whether that report has covered the following matters: There have been no ballots for hire car licences since 1964 when 6 hire car licences were granted. The population of Canberra then was roughly 50,000. The population now is 136,000. But still only 6 hire cars are licensed. The Department of the Interior seems to be closing its eyes to another factor with regard to the shortage of hire cars. This is that 12 so-called rentacars are operating as hire cars in Canberra, carrying tourists and business men and catering for weddings, funerals and the like. These rent-a-cars are not rented in the way companies such as the 
Avis, Kay's and Hertz companies rent their cars. These rent-a-cars do not have to pass a check for road worthiness by the transport section of the Department of the Interior every 3 months, as taxis or hire cars do. They do not have to be driven by a driver having a B Class licence - that is, a taxi or hire car licence - which requires a medical check every year and the passing of a character reference test by the police. Also there is no requirement that the drivers be over 21 years of age. 
This means that there is a possibility that unroadworthy cars could be carrying paying members of the public around Canberra. Without a requirement for a medical examination, medically unfit drivers could be driving these rent-a-cars that are being used as hire cars. Also, there is no examination of the background of the people who are actually engaged in driving these rent-a-cars. At present there are 12 rent-a-cars carrying paying passengers around Canberra. The Department of the Interior evidently contends that These rent-a-cars are rented out by contract and also that there is a different contract for the drivers. But, as it is highly irregular that rent-a-cars should be used in this way. the Department should give some explanation of why this state of affairs exists. 1 would like to know whether the Department of the Interior sees these contracts and whether it can produce one to enable us to see the nature of the duties and responsibilities of the drivers. 
The rent-a-cars are doing the Tourist Bureau work of the Department of the Interior, but they are restricted in that they are not allowed to do the Commonwealth transport work of the Department  of  the Interior. Each of the 6 hire car operators who were given their licences in 1964 has one rent-a-car. The owner of a Beet of tourist buses also runs 2 rent-a-cars. That would mean that 12 rent-a-cars are being operated by the 6 operators. I wish to ask the Minister whether he will elaborate much more on the information he has already given me and make available the report which was prepared for the Department by a firm of private consultants and which is supposed to set out the facts concerning the present usage of passenger car services in Canberra. Information on this matter of hire car licences and the availability of taxi services generally should be known. The Minister said in his reply: 
The existing level of taxi licences is considered to be satisfactory . . . 
But some of my colleagues and I had experience of the situation last Friday week. We were going to the airport, but the taxis for quite a number of senators did not arrive. The transport pool of the Department of the Interior stepped into the breach and we were taken to the airport at the fastest possible rate so that we could catch our aircraft. To me, that is an indication that the matter I raised before has some substance in it. I believe that we are entitled to know about this matter and that there should be a scrutiny in depth of the position with regard to these important transport facilities in the national capital. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I refer to a report in today's Press that 3 former American Army officers had told an unofficial Congressional hearing that their commanding general in Vietnam knowingly had approved of an artillery bombardment aimed at an enemy hospital. Is the Minister aware that one officer told the hearing that the senior command of the American Army breached the Geneva Convention in the artillery incident indicated? Would he agree that this further evidence of the dehumanising nature of this war, which even now is breaching one of the most respected clauses in the Geneva Convention- 
I move: 
That the Senate take note of the statement. I ask for leave to make my remarks at a later date. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I ask the Minister for Health a question. In view of the importance attached by the Minister to the proposal for general practitioners to increase their fees by 15 per cent, with its consequent effect not only on the cost to patients but also on the health insurance bodies and the Government health scheme, will the Minister, contemporaneously, have an inquiry made into chemists' fees and prices which, without any publicity or attention by the Minister, have increased far above the percentage increase proposed by general medical practitioners? 
Firstly I wish to add my congratulations to those of other senators on the maiden speech made last night by  Senator James  McClelland. I believe that the Senate can be quite pleased that we have with us a man who is able to apply himself with such thoughtfulness to the examination of a measure on his first essay into the hurlyburly of parliamentary life. The subject matter and the method of delivery did him great credit. I am certain that we will be the richer by having a man of his calibre among us. 
It may be cogent to observe at the same time that, although we heard such a balanced speech from  Senator James  McClelland, we heard a rather amazing speech from  Senator Little.  It was at the other end of the infinity of contributions that we have on various subjects in this chamber. I thought that  Senator Little's  contribution illustrated not only the blind fanaticism and fear that possess him but also the atmosphere prevailing in our society in the realms of the Establishment and the dilemma that faces our country and our social and economic system. I believe that it was that atmosphere which originally prompted the idea or concept of the measure that is now before the chamber. 
The terms of the Bill are repetitions and perhaps refinements of legislation which is referred to in the Bill itself and the Schedule and which date back to the time of Richard II. The Schedule refers to the Riot Act 1411, the Riot Act 1414, the Tumultuous Petitioning Act 1661, the Riot Act in the time of George 1 and the Shipping Offences Act 1793. The Schedule then refers to 'Other enactments in force in States' and mentions the New South Wales Crimes Act 1900, the Victorian Crimes Act 1958 and Unlawful Assemblies and Processions Act 1958, the Queensland Criminal Code, the South Australian Criminal Law Consolidation Act 1935-1966, the Western Australian Criminal Code Act 1913 and the Tasmanian Criminal Code. Finally the Schedule refers to 'Other enactments in force in Territories' and mentions, in relation to the Australian Capital Territory, the Party Processions Prevention Act 1901 of New South Wales and the Crimes Act 1900 of New South Wales, in its application to the Territory; and, in relation to the Northern Territory, the Criminal Law Consolidation Act and Ordinance 1876 to 1969, as in force in the Territory. 
So the subject matter dealt with in this Bill is not new. It is a subject that has been dealt with periodically right through the history of our society and the evolution of the way of living that we have today. Quite naturally, there have to be restraints on people who are anti-social. This will always be so. But the overwhelming majority of people are law abiding. The laws are enacted by Parliament, which consists of people representing, as they believe, the wishes of the majority of the people. That is accepted. 
But the atmosphere that prevails in our society today is a changing one. We are dealing with a set of circumstances that has not had an exact precedent in days gone by, when the other enactments were introduced. The dilemma that faces this country is endemic in the social and economic system under which we live here in Australia. But it is manifesting itself not only here but also in the United States of America, the United Kingdom, many parts of Europe and even in Japan, where the youth are protesting against their lack of national purpose and their lack of something in which to believe and for which to strive. I should like to proceed to give some of the reasons why this is so and to state what it is absolutely imperative for each individual government and society to do in order to be able to solve in some way this explosive problem, which is so widespread. 
I do not believe that laws or Bills such as the one we have before us now will make a contribution in any way towards the solution of this problem, lt is my view that force begets force, that a movement such as that which is so evident and so widespread today will eventually find its own solution and that the laws and attitudes of society will have to adapt themselves to the situation as it develops. I believe, in the first place, that the reason why the youth of this country are disillusioned and are protesting lies in our political system. After all, protest of this nature or magnitude is relatively new and the measures taken against the protesters are relatively new. If there have been cases in the past, they have been rather few and far between. 
As  1  see it, the political system in our country and in the other countries I have mentioned is such that the true expression of the hopes and ambitions of the young people is frustrated by the power that exists in the various sections of the Establishment. Firstly, I believe that the unavailability of a wide spectrum of information and education through our news media - Press, radio and television - is creating and even extending tensions. I refer to the policy of the media of reporting only the things that will stimulate the negative side of young people and depriving them of information and knowledge that they are seeking in order to solve their own inner problems. The mass media of this country are owned by people who have every reason to preserve the establishment. They feel every justification to use their power to preserve their own privileged position in society. The owners of the Press, by personal intervention, through editorials or slanting of the reporting aim to suppress much information that young people should have, about nol only their own society but also other parts of the world. This practice also contributes to tension. 
It is proclaimed that we live in a democratic society in which the will of the people prevails. However, during an election campaign the overwhelming bulk of the time devoted to radio and television political programmes favours the establishment and is strongly directed to the negative side of people and to fear. It is used on the principle that when doubt can be created in a person's mind he will stick to the status quo. This again builds tension. 
There is a great generation gap as well as a gap between the minds of the younger and older people in the community. The older people had less opportunity for education in their younger days. The younger people have not experienced a depression and do not want to be reminded of the last one. They do not want to be reminded of World War  1  and World War II, but those were dominating events in the lives of members of the older generation. Our younger people do not want to hear about the mistakes of the past. They want to know what the future holds for them, but at election time the proposition put most frequently to them is that preservation of the status quo is desirable and that a change could bring about all sorts of fearful situations. The greatest offender in this respect is the Democratic Labor Party in the type of campaign it wages. 
Members of the DLP know very well that they appeal to only a very small section of the community, but it is sufficiently large to give them the position they hold in the Senate. They do not need to be positive. By continuing to be negative they retain the power that attaches to holding the balance in the Senate, but their type of propaganda causes harm to the youth of this country. Our young people hear from the DLP in election campaigns that we are likely to be invaded by China. The DLP knows that that is impossible, but they put about that an invasion is imminent and we must divert our resources to build up a military and defence complex against that inevitable threat. That is palpably false and helps to build up tensions in our young people. When an election is over no more is said about imminent invasion by China and the daily, or almost hourly, onslaught by television of the terrible things that could happen ceases. The DLP settles down to whatever gain it has received from its propaganda, but a legacy remains after this 3-yearly attack on the minds of our young people. That atmosphere pervades our society today and this Bill attempts to deal with it. 
This measure is not only unnecessary but could also lead on to a situation in which a government could become more and more fearful of its inability to cope with community tensions. Its activities could be extended to an even more repressive level. Governments of any political colour face events that will be a great cause for anxiety due to factors inherent in our economic system. I have in mind its basic weaknesses and I will refer to a few of them. For instance, let us study our social services. At the time of each Budget the Government slightly increases its social service contributions. I often wonder whether this is done because of the votes that can be gained or whether it is directed towards giving the aged people of our country some dignity in the evening of their lives. Our young people know very well that in our society are tens of thousands of aged and invalid people living without dignity because of their economic circumstances, poor accommodation and many other factors. 
Our young people are asked to believe that we live in an affluent, society. They are advised to get in and work, to pull their weight, to join the service clubs and such like because this society can lead to great things. But people who interest themselves in social research tell us that all is not right. The Government and the Press tell a good story, but in reality great pockets of underprivileged and impoverished people live in our so called affluent society. Frustration is also building tension in young people who embark on marriage. When they start to buy a, home they find inequities that they challenge. The cost of land has risen so high in this country that it places on the shoulders of young people a burden for the rest of their lives. Added to it is the  cost  of buying or building a house. Inflation has allowed costs to soar. Young people who should be able to obtain accommodation at a price within their means face burdensome repayments including the very high charges inherent in the inflationary capitalist system. In the capitalist system, it is the object of every one who can sell to do so at the highest possible price in order to make the highest profit. In the long run, the buck is passed to the young people who are starting off in married life and the burden finishes on their shoulders. I ask for leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
When the debate on this Bill was adjourned I was talking about the great problems that confront the youth of today in the inflationary economy of a society that fails to give them the end purpose they seek. I had spoken about the standard of living of aged and invalid people and about many of them being tucked away in our affluent society and forgotten. This factor adds to the tensions that I have already outlined as forming the background to and described as being the cause of the atmosphere that prevails in our community. It was in this atmosphere that the Bill we are discussing was conceived. 
I would like also to mention while I am on this proposition that recently 1 read an outline of a survey conducted into hire purchase commitments. The average person in the community who can afford to pay cash for commodities is much better off than the young people - the newly marrieds with young families - who have these heavy commitments. I believe that publicity should be given to the fact that the young people who have to purchase things under hire purchase are being exploited. Apparently they believe that they are paying a rate of interest of 8 per cent or 9 per cent, but this survey showed that the average flat rate of interest that most of the insurance and hire purchase companies charge is up to 18 per cent and 20 per cent. This exploitation is regarded by these companies as good business, but I regard it as one of the immoral aspects of our financial system. It is one of the aspects that is being questioned by young people today. It is one of the root causes of them wanting to find another way, other than through the Parliament because the Parliament will not do anything for them as it is afraid to do anything that might rock the boat of the Establishment, to solve their problems. Many of these young people do not want to go into the streets and protest but they have been forced to do so because they are discontented with and frustrated by the fact that such a state of affairs exists. 
One has only to consider the high interest rate which is charged on overdrafts. Many of those people who are favoured enough to be in a position to obtain a mortgage are paying what, in the terms of Shakespeare, are Shylock rates. Despite this we find that all the laws, including the terms of this Bill, are directed towards protecting the continuation and perpetuation of these things. The title of this Bill indicates that it is designed to protect property. Its object is to protect persons and property. The organisations that deal in the accumulation of money are all a part of this term 'property', although they themselves are involved in an exercise that, in terms of human standards and human welfare, could be classified as immoral. The result is an accumulation of various conflicting factors. 
Recently the ramifications of the stock exchanges in Australia were exposed. What did the people of Australia find out about this citadel of the system - with all its ethics and gentlemen's agreements - that they had trusted to invest their money in what they believe was the development and the advancement of a young country which is rich in natural resources and bright in its possibilities for the future? They found out, to their horror, that their money was in the hands of people who could be virtually classified as unscrupulous and opportunistic. These people were operating within a framework of business which enable them to exploit the shareholders and to delude the public. 1 believe that the exposing of this practice is one of the finest things to have been done by the Senate. I believe that the highest praise of the Senate should be extended to those people who were responsible for doing it. 
Not only was this citidel of the economic system exposed but also the built in practice of resale price maintenance was exposed. It was explained earlier by  Senator Kennelly  how little pressure was needed to prick this balloon of the Establishment. Under the practice of resale price maintenance people could, on the one hand, get together and arrange to withdraw, if necessary, their goods from the community unless a usurer's price was obtained whilst, on the other hand, the very same people said to the men working in industry: 'If you do not deliver up your labour at the price that we set we will not only fine you but also gaol you'. These are the contradictions that are up for questioning by the young people of Australia. Some are content to voice their feelings in the forum of the streets by demonstrating whilst others are simply opting out or wearing outlandish clothes and the like. They are protesting in various ways to show that they are not satisfied with the way in which our society is operating. 
I would also like to say something about the contribution  -  or lack of contribution - that is being made by our church bodies. In my view it is the responsibility of the churches to try to spread the gospel of love, kindness, brotherhood and the other Christian virtues. On occasions when the Australian Council of Churches or some other religious organisation has spoken out on some moral issue the Press has either damned it with faint praise or has ridiculed it. On the other hand, some of the strongest churches which should be in the forefront on the moral issues of our time are conspicuously silent at a time when they should be most vocal and most effective. The whole principle of Christian ethics is to try to elevate the dignity of mankind. Not only internally but also internationally the exploitation of man by man goes on. The churches with their investments are deeply involved in this very great moral issue. 1 also feel that the churches have been remiss in their efforts, guidance and leadership on the issue of peace or war. The churches have been very slow to carry out what I believe should have been their proper responsibility in relation to our involvement in a series of wars since the end of the Second World War, particularly the present war in Vietnam. I believe that the churches have to exhibit a much greater responsibility in relation to racism than they have exhibited so far. How can you possibly spread beliefs world wide if you divide the world not only into economic compartments but also into eoi; oured compartments? This adds to the theme that I am developing that these pressures are continually building up in the community. They will find an outlet for expression. 1 mention another cause, the effects of which are one reason for the introduction of the Bill. I refer to the failure of our education system. It has been confined to an orthodox method of education. On close examination, history has been biased and at times falsified for the purpose of elevating one racial group at the expense of another and has given a one-sided view of the development of nations. When people enter the hurley burley of adult life they expect to be able to carry with them many of the things they learned in school. They find great contradictions existing in many of the things that they were taught. Because of the narrowness of the approach of the educational system, they have narrow views. The present generation realises these things and they contribute to a widening not only of the generation gap but also of the mind gap. Older people cannot understand why young people adopt the attitude that they are adopting today. 
Different types of young people are rebelling. I suppose the most noticeable are the anti-war protesters, who, basically, are against war because they understand the stupidity and the futility of war. From their parents they have been able to obtain information that in one generation there have been 2 World Wars and other wars continually during that period. In the final analysis it appears that the winners lose and the losers win. There is no advantage in war. War brings destruction, hardship and often starvation. It breaks down the human spirit and degrades and dehumanises man. The anti-war protesters and the anti-conscription protesters are those groups of youths which have woken up to many of the things about which I have spoken. They are the lucky ones. They know that they will overcome one day. Their song is: 'We shall overcome'. They know that, if they continue to protest and if they continue to devote their energies towards the betterment of society and towards the achievement of a better world, they will overcome. They have something to do; they have some purpose and they derive satisfaction from it. They are creating a feeling of nervousness in the minds of the establishment and those intelligent people who know what makes society tick. The establishment has spokesmen who are fanatically anti-Socialists. This was illustrated by the speech made by  Senator Little  earlier today. The protesters include quite  a  substantial proportion of university graduates, university students and other young people. 
It does not matter what the percentage is. I am listing the various types of young people who will be affected by this legislation. The next category is the young people who have not been properly alerted and who are not fully aware of the contradictions that exist not only in history but also in living in our economic, social and political systems. They will rebel against anything. They want to buck authority. We have always had them and we always will have them. The number of such young people is growing. They feel that, because something is wrong, they must rebel. They turn to violence, vandalism and the other things about which we read in the Press. They turn to drug taking - escapism. Often they turn within themselves and take it out on themselves. They are against everything. The most interesting part about the present day attitude of most young people is that they are quite content to maintain the status quo. They are doing all right. Their parents have been able to provide for them. They have been through the right channels, have joined the right service clubs and have gone quietly along the stream. They regard themselves as kind, considerate people who do not want to hurt anyone. 
The amazing thing is that these young people do not mind what happens so long as it happens to the other fellow. So long as they are not called into the draft they do not mind reading in the newspapers about napalm and defoliants being dropped on someone else's country. They do not mind so long as the people on whom those things are dropped are the enemy, the National Liberation Front, the Congs err the Commos or someone else. They do not mind so long as these things are wrapped up in nice little parcels like bombs or canisters. They do not mind so long as the human element is taken out of war so that these things can be dropped from aircraft or fired in artillery pieces and the like. Then they can accept these sorts of things without qualms. 
It is amazing how long the Press of Australia and other countries was able to cover up the massacres, the torture and the brutality in Vietnam about which we are now hearing. Veterans in the United States of America are appearing before committees and telling of their experiences. These things seem to have been suppressed somehow for a long time. Now we are discovering that they are true. These young people I am referring to get angry if you try to point out these things to them. They say that all these things are done by the other side, not by our side. These young people cannot grasp the idea that advances in communication and transport and all the other conquests of increased technology and scientific knowledge have meant inevitably that humanity embraces all mankind, not just one section or race or creed. They feel that being against an anti-war movement or against the protesters satisfies their need for something to do. 
We must not forget that section of youth which does not bother at all one way or the other. These are the good time boys. We have had them always. Our young people have been told for generations that their teenage is the time to be carefree - that it should be enjoyed to the full. I do not suppose we can blame them for doing this. We cannot blame them entirely because one out of every twelve young lads aged 20 is likely to be called up for national service. National service is not a very popular topic of discussion amongst them. They feel that it is their good luck if they can avoid national service. It is most disturbing that that age group has hanging over its head the responsibility or the obligation to undertake national service and to take part in a war that, possibly, they disagree with, a war which has never been declared. 
Perhaps they feel also that many of the problems in our society are with us because we cannot afford to put them right. If a proposition is put forward for increases in social services the cry throughout the media is: Where will we get the money? We never hear of any shortage of money to run a war. There is always plenty of money to buy Fills or to finance any sort of military equipment, for the Air Force, for the Army or for the Navy, together with all the other things associated with war. There is never any trouble in this regard. It would be interesting if we added the sum total of expenditure by this country on wars over the last 70 years and determined the gain to Australia as against the loss through the sheer waste of that capital. If that money had not been wasted in that way I am sure that our youth would be looking forward to a much more ordered society and a far better future than many of them see before them today. 
Many people today feel that the money they pay towards the war in Vietnam in the form of taxation is their contribution towards defence. Many of them do not mind that this money is being spent in this way. Yet we also find from time to time when hunger campaigns are organised that charitable organisations have to go round collecting moneys. We see this contrast, wastefulness on the one hand and a crying need on the part of so many starving and underprivileged people in the world on the other hand. No wonder these people criticise and question. 
The same thing applies to money spent on space exploration. I suppose there are abstract advantages to be gained by scientists who master space. One-upmanship comes into it because one nation can prove how much superior it is to another. Nations direct their resources towards being the first to land a man on the moon or the first to erect a space platform. I often wonder whether our priorities are right and whether the enormous funds involved in these outer space programmes should not be redirected towards improving and solving some of these basic problems to which I have referred. 
I do not think there is any country which does not have a big armaments budget, yet I believe that the youth of Australia is looking forward to the day when some organisation like the United Nations, or some form of world government, will reduce, if not abolish, the need for the great waste of money on armaments. I am certain also that our young people question the fact that there is widespread hunger. We know of the present calamities involving displaced persons in Pakistan. We know of the experiences in Calcutta and other areas of India.  Senator Douglas  McClelland has just returned from South America where he saw the great contrast of great riches alongside abject poverty. On the one hand we are seeking markets for our surplus food supplies and on the other hand we see people on the verge of starvation. We cannot solve the problem because of the economic factors involved. 
I am certain that the morality of our present day society will be of great interest to sociologists in days to come. They will try to discover why we tolerate these great contradictions. I am certain they will wonder about our standards of measuring the morality of intelligent men who manufacture and store deadly germs, nuclear bombs, lethal gases and all the other terrible weapons devised to destroy other sections of the human race. I am sure that they will query the sort of yardstick that is used when they study the war trials of the Nazi war criminals and consider that the very nations which set up those courts were at that time discussing the possibilities of atomic war and searching for devices which could lead to massacre on a far grander scale than was ever contrived by Hitler and his gang of wicked men. I suggest that many of the scientists who at that time were able to migrate from Germany to the United States had more scope and more money available for the tasks on which they were occupied than they could ever have hoped for under Hitler. 
Some people have moral standards which enable them to condone this kind of thing, yet if people of a particular race do not wear formal dress, or wear little or no clothes, they are regarded by some people as being in a state of moral decay. Young people are emerging into a world in which they find warped examples of a national morality. That is why we find today that various sections of the community are looking for some form of national purpose and some form of society to which they can devote their energies, where their energies can be absorbed and where they will have an ideal. Youth must have an ideal, and that ideal finally must come down to the basic point that they must live and let live. They have to understand that people of all classes, colours and creeds have equal rights under the sun. They have to restate and subscribe to the great principles of the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights; they have to restate principles, like those laid down in the Magna 
Carta, which were won by struggle and demonstrations; they have to revive the very things that have been the fabric of civilisation through its process of evolution. In doing that it will be found that the young people of this country have greater prospects and potential if they have some purpose. 
I believe that this legislation is negative. I believe that it is reducing the field of human rights, including freedom of speech, freedom of association and all those other freedoms without which man can never reach his estate. I disagree with this measure, not that I believe that there is anything in it that is not contained in other legislation but because it was devised as a political gimmick, one which has misfired. I think the measure should be treated with contempt. That is the attitude that I take towards it and so I oppose it. 
Sitting suspended from  5.59  to  8  p.m. 
General Business Taking Precedence of Government Business After  8  p.m. 
Will the Minister for Air say whether the action of the United States Air Force in temporarily grounding the 257 operational Fills after the eighteenth crash involving' the supersonic swing wing jet will finally induce him to make a recommendation to the Cabinet for the cancellation of Australia's order for Fill aircraft and to concentrate on an airworthy operational aircraft for the Royal Australian Air Force? 
by leave - I move: 
That the Senate take note of the statement. 
I seek leave to make my remarks at a later date. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
1 direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport who is no doubt aware of the dependence of Tasmania on shipping and the great service that has been provided down the years by the Australian National Line. I ask: ls the Minister aware that  Mr Nixon,  the Minister for Shipping and Transport, is reported by the news media to have said that the Australian National Line should be sold to private interests? Will the Minister make to the Senate a statement confirming or denying the report that the Government has any intention to sell the Australian National Line? 
I address a question to the Minister for Civil Aviation. Because of the increase in speed and the greater number of passengers on both major airlines the time available for hostesses to give the traditional meal and other refreshment has been reduced so that often they are still working during a turbulent descent and virtually until landing. As hostesses are obliged under Department of Civil Aviation regulations to be seated during turbulence and particularly for landing, will the Minister have a review made of the whole matter of traditional services on flights of less than one hour's duration and the safety of hostesses on these trips? 
asked the Minister  representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
What is the Australian Government's attitude towards the British decision to sell seven helicopters to South Africa. 
Does the Government agree with this move to give military support to racialist South Africa, in breach of the United Nations Security Council embargo on arms sales to the Vorster regime, which is supporting Rhodesia in defying the British Government. 
Will the Australian Government support the governments of the United States, Canada, Malaysia and the black African Commonwealth Nations in any diplomatic action to prevent the arms sale if it disagrees with the spirit and intention of the British decision. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Did the former Minister for Defence,  Mr Fraser,  in a speech reported in the Age of 20th April 1971, say that in future, Western Nations might not back non-communist nations which were under threat and that Australia might have to act on its own initiative in future when making military commitments. 
Was  Mr Fraser  also reported as saying that one of the most inhibiting factors for the Western Nations would be the experience of the Vietnam war. 
Does the Government intend to follow  Mr Fraser's  suggestions: and would this lead to the withdrawal of all Australian troops from Vietnam. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe Prime Minister has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: (1), (2) and (3) J refer the honourable senator to the Prime Minister's statement of 30th March 1971 on the future of Australian forces in Vietnam (Hansard (Senate) 30th March 1971, pp 618- 620), and to the Minister for Foreign Affairs' statement on International Affairs (Hansard (Senate) 7th April 1971, pp 828-832). 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. I draw the Minister's attention to an advertisement in yesterday's 'Australian Financial Review' headed 'Reduce your Tax Bill - become a Primary Producer'. The advertisement seeks the support of investors for a scheme to purchase, develop and stock beef cattle properties. The advertisement also states that long term capital gains are anticipated and goes on to say: 'Most of the money invested is tax deductible.' I ask the Minister: Why should these investors be allowed to enter a crowded market for virtually no capital outlay? Why is their investment tax deductible when current legislation is providing for the Australian taxpayer to contribute $J00m to a rural reconstruction scheme to rationalise rural industries and when many dairy farms are turning to beef cattle production? Will he look into this dubious situation and act to restore some justice in the tax laws to protect the Australian taxpayer as well as the cattle farmers, who will be assisted in turn by the Australian taxpayer? 

 - Mr Deputy President, it was my intention to ask this question of the  President  when he was in the chair but I direct it now to you. I feel that [ should draw attention to an advertisement appearing in the Press which states: 
Prompt private transcripts of Senate Select Committee on Securities - Canberra hearing. 
The advertisement gives a post office box number. What procedure is followed for this evidence to be made available to such people for sale? Is any assistance given to people engaged in this activity by the Senate or Hansard? Will the  President  give a ruling on the propriety of such an advertisement purporting that such evidence would be available before perusal by the witnesses for errors and/or corrections? 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - I will see that the  President  gets a copy of that question and in due course the honourable senator will receive an answer. 
Very briefly I add my congratulations to the retiring honourable senators. I feel a tinge of genuine sadness at their retirement because we will not be seeing them again in the next session. I express my appreciation of the contribution which they have made in this Senate. They have been a most important part of the history of the Senate. They have participated in one-third of its history - a period covering 25 years. I remember quite well when Dame Annabelle Rankin,  Sir Walter  Cooper and  Sir Neil  O'sullivan were 3 of 36 honourable senators. It amazed me that they were able to handle the various duties that devolved upon them as the Opposition at that time.  Mr President,  down the years we have seen your predecessors,  Senator Gordon  Brown and  Senator Mattner,  occupying the President's chair. Each of them has made a great contribution. In the same period we have seen 5 Prime Ministers:  Mr Chifley, Sir Robert  Menzies, the late  Mr Harold  Holt,  Mr John  Gorton and  Mr William  McMahon. This has been a very interesting phase in the history of the Senate. 
We have seen the formation of the great Whips union, with  Senator Dame  Annabelle Rankin,  Senator Reg  Wright,  Senator Cotton, Senator Scott  and  Senator Withers.  In this most important era in the history of the Senate we have seen the contributions of these retiring senators change the Senate from what was widely known as a rubber stamp into a viable and purposeful forum for the States and the Commonwealth. The Senate is making a tremendous contribution in creating a great image and great status for this part of the Parliament. I place on record my great appreciation for the services rendered by all those retiring senators. I wish them a happy and healthy retirement with their loved ones at home. 
Not this job, no. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. While it may be true that Japan spends only 1 per cent of its gross national product on defence, as the Prime Minister announced in the House of Representatives, is the Government aware that substantial contributions to the re-arming of Japan have been made by the Government of the United States of America since the end of World War II? Will the Minister inform the Senate of the total amount of United States contributions to Japanese rearmament since the end of World War II? 
The last person who should talk about social services is the new Minister for Health  (Senator Greenwood). His  performance since he has become the Minister has been to agree to the increase in doctors' fees which will in turn increase the charges to the poorer people of the community who, when in ill health at the very time they need assistance, find this added burden placed on their shoulders in the way of higher contribution charges to hospital and medical insurance funds. The Minister's entry into the debate indicates that he is always ready to support his shadow Party, the third Party in the Government coalition, the Democratic Labor Party. All Government members are ready to rush to the standard at any time they are called on. The greatest charade of this Senate is for the DLP to sit on the left hand side of the Chair. DLP senators say that they are the upholders of all things connected with social services and uphold the Opposition yet, constantly down through the years their whole political existence has depended upon their playing cunning stunts and, sitting in the corner for some little time now, having the balance of power. 
As a matter of fact, their influence on the Senate can undo a lot of the good that progressive people in the Senate are trying to do for it. They are using the forms of the Senate, under the subterfuge of being in the Opposition, only to expand their own position in the electorate so that four or five people - the excrescence from other parties - can find a place in this Senate. They get up here on every occasion they can, not to do their supposed job which is to oppose the Government, but on every occasion when the pressure is on to run over to the Government side to give support to those who have supported them and put them into power. 
They produce a long list of occasions when they have proposed to assist the aged and infirm. But it has always been found that whenever the pressure was on them they have voted for the Government. They have never had any desire whatever to do any other thing but to obtain publicity for themselves. The Australian Labor Party objects to the method that they have been using because they are defeating the very purpose of the Senate and the Parliament - particularly the Opposition - in trying to bring before the Government continually the needs of the community. I would like to ask this question: Why should we ever support the DLP? We would be better off supporting the Government. At least we know the Government's policy. At least we know that the Government has integrity. At least we know that when they make up their minds and there is a Cabinet decision they will stick to it. But the DLP will say on the spur of the moment: 'Can we get publicity at the expense of the Labor Party?' They never attempt to get publicity at the expense of the Government. It is always at the expense of the Labor Party. It is the old story of long knives, revenge and pure political chicanery. They are past-masters at it, so we are not very impressed. The proposition put up by the Australia Labor Party is as follows:  . . the Senate is of opinion that the social services of the Commonwealth are so inadequate as to constitute social injustice and is of the opinion, that unless the inadequacies are substantially remedied in the Budget, it should be rejected. 
If the DLP senators had any conscience whatever they would support that resolution. Instead of that they put up a pusillanimous, emasculated, anaemic looking amendment that means nothing. It indicates that they will not reject the Budget. Of course they will not reject the Budget because they are here to support the Government. I would like to refer to the member of the Government who interjected while  Senator Murphy  was speaking and said that there was not hardship or hunger in the community. Reports of hardship are coming in from all over the country. It is reported that there are pockets of poverty and it is at those areas that we feel this amendment is aimed. Social services are inadequate and the Opposition believes they should be rectified. The Governmnt should be forced to understand the need in our community. 
I would like to quote a letter from the Armidale Senior Citizen's Association, which is a registered charity. It points to one area of suffering that the Government and the Australian Democratic Labor Party do not recognise. I quote this letter to give honourable senators an understanding of what is going on in this so-called affluent society, a society where the privileges and the wealth, of those who are lucky enough to have wealth, are so great in contrast to those who are so much in need. The letter is addressed to the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth).  It says: Dear  Mr Wentworth, 
My association has instructed me to seek your support for an immediate supplementary Winter pension grant of $13 to help our members over the cold season. 
For several winters my association has provided a partial free fuel service to the most needy of its members, and in doing so tried to ease slightly the inadequacy of the age and invalid pension. It has been an exhausting organising effort, compensated by the thanks of recipients for their load of firewood. We are unable to maintain the service, but the need of pensioners seems to increase as the amount of the pension becomes relatively less adequate. We can assure you, of our intimate connection with them, that the dread of the cold as Winter approaches is very real to many of our aged and infirm citizens. It pains our executive members that we cannot help further. 
We see the latest increase of fifty cents to be a recognition by the Commonwealth Government that the earlier increase of fifty cents was inadequate. We see in the action of the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon),  by granting this last increase immediately he took office, a belated acknowledgment that on October 1st the pension increase should have been $1 instead of half that amount, and we see in the promptness of the Prime Minister's response, a sense of urgency to meet nationwide appeals for more compassionate treatment of our pensioner people. 
Thus, for 26 weeks from October 1st to April 1st, pensioners subsisted on $13 less than they would have had if the warranted increase had been originally granted. Let us call it a compulsory saving for the pensioner, to be released to meet the rigours of Winter. Your Government may, of course, have this in mind, in which case an early surprise release will earn gratitude and applause. 
But Winter is almost on us and my association pleads with you to make the grant, now, as soon as the distributing machinery can achieve it, before the chill of the Winter causes more suffering. A supplementary Winter grant of $13 would have a logical and humane basis, and win the gratitude of all by relieving us of the impossible task of trying to supplement an inadequate pension. 
The date of that letter is 27th April 1971, a matter of about 2 weeks ago. It was signed by A. J. Taylor, the honorary secretary of the Association. In the letter  Mr Taylor  has drawn the picture that exists in very many areas of Australia amongst the aged and infirm, the widows and others. It is a disgrace to a country that claims all the things this Government claims about Australia's affluence, about the great wealth that exists, about the great discoveries that are being made of natural resources, about our great overseas balances and so on, while hidden in a murky little corner or swept under the carpet are the very great social human problems that are indicated by the tone of the letter I have just recited to the Senate. I feel that the attack that, has been made on the proposed contained in the Opposition's amendment is - certainly not warranted. The Opposition feels that some great pressure must be applied to the Government to make it realise its responsibilities. During the time that  Senator Gair  was attacking the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  and members of the Government he proved conclusively the complete insincerity of the DLP in every move it makes in the Senate. I include in that criticism  Senator Little, Senator Kane, Senator McManus, Senator Gair  and  Senator Byrne.  They are completely insincere. 
Sifting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
It was agreed that the Customs Tariff Bill and the Customs Tariff Validation Bill be debated concurrently. Therefore the Opposition does not oppose the motion. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without requests or debate. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior. On 2 occasions in the past I have made inquires of the Minister for the Interior through the Minister in this chamber to obtain details of the circumstances relating to the use of hire and drive cars as licensed hire cars in Canberra. As this matter could be resolved in 5 minutes by a telephone call, will the Minister excerise his undoubted talent in the field of public relations and seek this information for me? 
I ask for leave to discuss the provisions of the Customs Tariff Bill and the Customs Tariff Validation Bill together. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
The tariff proposals in the Customs Tariff Validation Bill, which will give validity until 30th June 1971 - which is only the end of next month - to the collection of duties, were introduced in the Parliament between April and May of this year. The Tariff Board in its report recommended duty collection and tariff changes on such items as pins, hairpins, curling grips, refractory products, mining and metallurgical machinery with respect to diamond drilling machines only, and pulp under the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement. These items will come up again for validation after the end of this financial year. 
The Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  gave in his second reading speech an assurance that tariff alterations will be introduced by gazette to operate after 30th June and that these will in time come before the Senate for further validation. The other Bill, the Customs Tariff Bill, has a much wider range. It deals with 23 or 24 reports from the Tariff Board and the Special Advisory Authority. It is the intention of the Australian Labor Party to oppose this measure because it feels that the importance of the Tariff Board is being underestimated as a part of the machinery of the economy and that the Board is not able to fulfil its growing importance because of factors which I will proceed to outline. 
The whole idea of tariff making is part and parcel of the story of Australia's economic development, going back to the great arguments that raged between the free traders and those in favour of protection. 
It is being underestimated by the Government as a part of the machinery of the economy. It is the Opposition's view that the Tariff Board should have sufficient staff and sufficient researchers and that its activities should be upgraded so that it can supply a continuous source of detailed information to the Parliament on the whole field of protected industries in Australia. 
As  Senator Douglas  McClelland has just reminded me, there should be a trade union representative on the Tariff Board. I understand that there is a vacancy at the present time, After all, over the years the trade unions have produced some of the finest brains in the Commonwealth, having a background knowledge of the needs, the hopes and the aspirations of the ordinary working men and the salaried people of this country. That sort of experience would be of great advantage to the Tariff Board. 
I hope that this recommendation will be considered very carefully by the Government when it is appointing the next member of the Tariff Board.  Senator Webster  has asked: 'In what way?' I would think that a member of the trade union movement would be of advantage as a member of the Tariff Board. I am just putting the simple fact that at the present time, the members of the Tariff Board are very capable, well selected men with a vast range of interests and activities. But I do not think any of them have been closely associated with the trade union movement or the work force. The selection in the past has been for the purpose of bringing in representatives of various sectors of the economy and the financial system so that the Board can have the benefit of the full range of the backgrounds and individual knowledge of members of the Board. 
I believe the picture would be completed by having this very important section of the community, the trade union movement, represented directly on the Board. While I am on this aspect of the debate I would like to pay a tribute to the hard working, dedicated members of the Board. We have every reason to be thankful for the work they have done. In my view they have had to work under adverse conditions. They have had references made to them and have dealt with these references to the very best of their ability. But all the time there is a backlog and often in their reports we can see that it has been a tradition of the Board to confine a lot of its information under the heading of confiden tial. I believe that when any organisation or individual, whether in primary industry, importing or any other field, makes a call on the taxpayers' money in the form of grant, subsidy, duty or in any other form, details of their whole business activities should be available to the members of the Parliament who represent the taxpayer. 
The Opposition feels the Tariff Board will have to give much more detailed information to the Parliament on the reasons why companies claim increases in their tariff protection and ' also more detailed information on the reasons why the Board finds that protection needs to be decreased. ' There are so many important parts of this whole tariff problem that we have to take into consideration the whole of the impact the work of the Tariff Board has on the economy. It is within the Board's power to have a first hand evaluation of an industry, but there does not seem to be any method of carrying on from that point to determine the impact on the economy further down the line. I think all political parties in this country, particularly the Australian Labor Party, are very conscious of the need for decentralisation. After all, there has been a move over the past 20 or more years from the country to the urban areas and we are finding that there is an accumulation of tremendous numbers of people in the city, areas while the hinterland areas of this country are being denuded of population. Of course, we know the plight of the rural industries. We have available all the technology and equipment that has been developed for agriculture and primary industrial work. We know of the labour saving devices and of the other factors that have tended to decrease the amount of labour employed in rural areas. 
Nevertheless, in every respect I think that government policy should be directed as strongly as possible towards decentralisation. This is an area in which I believe the Tariff Board has to be quite strong in order to achieve its objective. It should look for opportunities to encourage industries by the imposition of tariff protection, if necessary, on the condition that the industries carry out the policy of decentralisation. It should encourage industries to use the resources that might be available in country areas rather than use the less favourable conditions that obtain in the city areas. On the other hand I believe the life blood of any country is trade. Here again the Tariff Board can play a very important part in giving advice to the Government and to the Parliament. This is the point of demarcation I want to make. The Tariff Board makes its report to the Parliament but very often it is a belated report and often is not in sufficient detail. It has knowledge of what is happening in industry and seeks Government encouragement for industries which not only are likely to be viable and economically developed to supply the local market but which also would be potential exporters of our products. The Board itself would need to have knowledge of the various trade agreements that we have made over the years. It would need to understand the politics and economics of trading with friendly countries, taking advantage of factors in those countries for the benefit of Australia. 
Information on the rapidly changing pressures that are on the economy should be available to the Tariff Board through researchers and economic advisers. It is in this respect that the Board's structure needs a lot more attention. Instead of it being more or less a sideline of the economy I believe it should be an important linchpin in the economy and in the evaluation of the ever changing factors. References have been made in another place to the delay in handling submissions for examination by the Board. Of the 52 references made to the Board up to 3 1st March, 39 still had not been examined. This indicates that although the Board already has the power to delegate its authority to a single member inquiry which may accelerate the examination of references, nevertheless this important part of the machinery of our economy has been underestimated. I have mentioned the matter of a single member board and I commend this move because I believe it will be of great advantage. A very important matter to which we need to give attention and of which the Tariff Board should be aware is advance information so that proper consideration can be given to the phasing out of protection for certain industries. 
It has been stated on this side of the chamber continuously and consistently over the years that we believe in a policy of full employment. The employment of our human resources to their fullest capacity, and to the limit of the capabilities of each person, is essential in a properly organised society and all the activities of the Government should be directed towards giving people the fullest opportunities for expression and development. But when industries are becoming redundant or are being phased out it is a very great responsibility of government to provide the facilities for re-training and re-directing people into gainful and suitable employment. Recommendations along this line should come from; amongst others, the Tariff Board in its reports to the Government. The annual reports of the Tariff Board are comprehen1sive and outline the activities of the Board. 
There are 2 references with which I should like to deal in perhaps a little more detail. Both relate ;to industries in Tasmania. We are very, grateful indeed to know that the Board has given close consideration, to these, industries ;and has recommended added protection. I refer to the Tariff Board report on calcium carbide. This report was -brought - down on 2nd April 1970. It has taken a considerable time for the report to be discussed in the Parliament. It relates to a; very important part of an industry in Tasmania. I refer to the manufacture of ^calcium carbide. The manufacture of calcium ..carbide was undertaken originally in 1919 by a private company at Electrona in Tasmania but that company fell on hard times and the industry was taken over by ,the Tasmanian Government and was operated then by the Hydro Electric Department. Subsequently the Australian Commonwealth Carbide Company was formed. The carbide industry has given employment to a number of people in the Lune River district and the Electrona area of Tasmania. At the time this report was presented, the company operated 3 furnaces with individual capacities of 4,800, 4,000 and 5,400 tons per annum. There are recommendations in this report that the company should be guaranteed a production of 10,000 tons per annum. I believe that as a consequence of this, one of the furnaces has been closed down. 
There were 190 people engaged in the production and sale of, calcium carbide at the time of the inquiry. The company provided employment for. most of the work force in the area around Electona, which is about 17 miles from Hobart. About 90 per cent of the company's work force lives ir. and around the townships of Electrona and Snug, where the company owns about 50 houses. Honourable senators will probably recall that the township of Snug where these employees lived was completely wiped out in the disastrous bushfires a few years back. We are pleased with the recommendation of the Board. The company is the sole Australian producer of carbide. It plays a very important part in decentralisation. The Board recommended that there be a 40 per cent preferential and general rate of duty in accordance with international commitments. So we in Tasmania have reason to be very satisfied with that report of the Tariff Board. 
The other industry to which I wish to refer is another Tasmanian industry. It is referred to in the Tariff Board report on alginic acid and its derivatives. The only Australian producer of alginates is Alginates (Australia), a division of Marrickville Holdings Limited. The company commenced production in 1967. I understand that this commodity is derived from a seaweed. The industry is located at Orford on the east coast of Tasmania. It is ideally situated because of its proximity to suitable commercial beds of seaweed of the variety required - macrocystis pyrifera. The seaweed is harvested by the company and treated to obtain initially alginic acid. This acid is then further treated to obtain sodium alginate and subsequently other salts. I understand that this is one of the substances used in the making of instant potatoes, instant coffee, instant tea and the like. Of course, there is a growing demand for this type of product. I believe that it is an industry which will prosper. As I mentioned before, it is a decentralised industry suitable to Tasmanian conditions because it can exploit some of our offshore resources in the form of seaweed. The local demand is likely to grow. The Tariff Board has recommended a 30 per cent preferential rate of duty. 
I have mentioned those 2 Tasmanian industries more or less on the parochial level to show my appreciation of the protection which is being offered to them. Overall, I feel that I should remind the Government that the Tariff Board is too inhibited and circumscribed to allow it to fulfil its proper function. For that reason, we of the Australian Labor Party have decided to oppose this measure for the purpose of highlighting the need for a complete reassessment and re-evaluation of the activities of the Tariff Board so that it can become an even more valuable contributor to the information needed for the administration of the very fluid economy which we have in this country at the present time. We oppose the measure. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I refer to the statement made by  Mr C.  J. Perrett, the former General Manager of the Australian Wheat Board, at a Legacy luncheon that the Federal Government's failure to recognise the People's Republic of China was a barrier to wheat trade with China and that Australia will have an uphill job regaining this trade. In view of the Prime Minister's statement yesterday on the likelihood of  the recognition of China by the United Nations and Australia, will the Government commence as early as possible setting diplomatic and economic machinery in motion to recover our previous share of the Chinese wheat market? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI saw in part a television interview with the gentleman referred to. I think he said other things as well.  His  contribution at a Legacy function, or whatever it was, seemed to have a number of aspects which went both ways on this issue. I shall concentrate on the one that  Senator O'Byrne  has put. All I can say is that to my knowledge and to the knowledge of everybody else the Wheat Board is in continual discussion and communication about the sale of Australian wheat. I think that those honourable senators who take a long term view of this matter will agree with me when I say that the Board has done a magnificent job. I do not think that that can be challenged. I am quite certain that the Wheat Board will continue to do a good job in disposing of Australian wheat. It has access to mainland China and its representatives go there to transact business. I think that the foreign affairs side of the honourable senator's question has been well canvassed and the Government's view has been well expressed. 
asked the Minister  representing the Minister for External Territories, upon notice: 
Did the Minister for External Territories on 9 March declare his opposition to the recommendation of the Cochrane Report on rural wages in New Guinea, namely, that such wages be increased on a cash, ration and accommodation basis from $4.83 to $5.90 with a further increase to $6.40 after 12 months. 
Did the Minister support his stand by saying that New Guinea's exporters of coffee, cocoa and copra would be out of business if rural wages were increased beyond economic levels; if so, can he explain this stand following a detailed survey of wages needs in the Territory, where the indigenous people live in an economic structure geared to European wages. 
Does this mean the Government is satisfied to see a continuation of economic discrimination which can only exacerbate tensions in the Territory over economic and racial discrimination by the Administration and employers. 
I wish to direct a question to the Minister for Health and I ask the indulgence of the Senate to make a brief prefatory statement to bring out the importance of this question. No doubt the Minister is aware of a recent announcement made by  Dr Linus  Pauling, the eminent United States scientist, twice winner of the Nobel prize for his work, to the effect that a copious intake of vitamin C will act as a preventive shield against the common cold. As so much discomfort, to say nothing of the loss of time in employment and other distress is caused by the common cold and influenza, will the Minister make a statement on behalf of the Department of Health, after consultation with the authorities of the Australian Medical Association, in order to encourage people to heed the advice of  Dr Pauling  on the subject of vitamin C? 
by leave - The long address that we have just heard from the Minister for Health  (Senator Greenwood)  outlined the functions of a trustee in bankruptcy but he made no mention whatever of the conclusion that I have reached. That conclusion is supplemented by the opinions of numerous people throughout Tasmania. I might say that my telephone rang hot over the weekend with calls from people who have been offended on a personal level by Hans Jacques de Jong. Each one of them has proved to me the temperemental unsuitability of this man to carry out a government function such as that of a trustee in bankruptcy. The recital we have just heard by  Senator Greenwood  disclosed that the trustee's behaviour, although strictly within the law, has been devoid of any human sympathy for people in distress and has had regard only for the interests of the creditors. 
The behaviour of a representative of this Parliament and this Government in a small town, as outlined by  Senator Greenwood,  although within the strict letter of the law has wider implications than were brought out in the statement. We are talking about a representative of this Government who said to a woman whose son was in distress: I will take the silver spoon out of the mouth of that mollycoddled son of yours. Madam, I will see that this mother love that you have turns into bitter hatred before I am finished with you.' 
That was said. 
Yes. 1 want an inquiry into this man's behaviour. That is why I have called for an inquiry. Let me just substantiate what I have said. I might mention a point that  Senator Greenwood  raised in his statement. It concerns the estate of a young man who took his life, as I mentioned, because, as his widow told me, of this type of treatment over a period of time. Just by coinidence, the day after I raised this matter in the Senate, the following public notice appeared in the local newspaper: 
Yes. This letter continues: 
Both the agents concerned and myself agree that the house was sold too cheaply and an amount of $12,500 could have been obtained. 
The house was valued at $11,500, or $11,000 in one case.  Mrs Barry  went round and said: 'Surely we can get more for this house'. This house had $20,000 worth of materials and work put into it. I repeat what was said in this letter: 
Both the agents concerned and myself agree that the house was sold too cheaply and an amount of $12,500 could have been obtained. 
I also acknowledge the receipt of your recent letter and inform you that you will have to pay back to me an amount of $220 being for allowances credited to your account during the weeks that you did not pay your wages to me, namely 19th February, 9th April, 16th April and 30th April 1969. In this connection, I draw your attention to the fact that, under the Deed of Arrangement, you are obliged to pay to me or into the Trustee's Bank Account immediately upon receipt thereof, all salaries, wages, fees, moneys, bills, notes, cheques or other negotiable instruments. 
I cannot therefore agree that you keep your wages wholly to yourself; they must be deposited in the bank account and a new allowance to yourself determined. The $55 per week was based on your expectation that you were going to earn  in  excess of $100 per week. In fact, your average earnings since 7th October 1968 have only amounted to $64; the position has further deteriorated because since you started working for Luxmore your average earnings have only been $51. 
I agreed to your employment with Luxmore because you were going to earn there $70 plus profits; as this has not eventuated, I require you to discuss the situation with  Mr Richardson.  I cannot believe that a man of your abilities and training could only earn $51 per week net. If no higher income is forthcoming I have to discuss with you alternative employment. 
An authority to your employer ls enclosed; 1 will not quote any more from this letter. I want to illustrate to the Senate the reasons for the type of report I made to the Senate about this man's conduct. An inquiry should be made to see whether he is temperamentally suited for this job. People from all over Tasmania have complained to me about the personal attitude of this man. He is a very intelligent man who works within the strict letter of the law. If I cannot raise these matters in this Parliament where is redress to be obtained for people in the electorate who want injustice righted and cannot achieve it through the strict letter of the law? This man follows very closely every point in the law so that he may make a report to the Minister. I make this claim: The trustee,  Mr de  long, in many cases given to me, has proved his arrogance, and his highhandedness, his lack of suitable temperament and bearing - all these things which are so important in public relations when the Government is dealing with an individual. I have no apologies to make for what I said in this Senate. Indeed, I would like to tell the Minister that I am in the process of finding every person who has suffered under this man's peculiar personal attitude towards these people, who have described him as taking a delight in exercising his authority and have referred to his lack of understanding, tolerance and Christian charity. Therefore, it is my duty to raise these matters in the Senate. 
I can quite understand that  Senator Greenwood  would have access to more recent documents than those that were presented to me, which were some of the documents that were available to various people who were aggrieved. I know that when I spoke to the Registrar in Hobart this man had not put in a statement for about 6 months, although under the Act he was supposed to do so within a shorter time. But the Registrar said to me: 'I am expecting it within the next week or so'. If de Jong was acting according to the strict letter of the law, he should have presented a statement of account. I said to the Registrar: 'May I have a look at those documents?' he said: "Yes; if you pay 40c a page you may have a look at them'. This is the attitude of the Registrar who says that I have not consulted him on the cases concerned. I was making representations, as the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition in another place  (Mr Barnard)  had done on various occasions. We had come up against a complete brick wall in this man acting according to the strict letter of the law and with no humanity. 
I do not propose to apologise to the Senate. I do not propose to withdraw anything I said. I assure the Minister that I now propose to see as many people as I can, compile a list of the complaints against this man and come back to the Senate and inform it of what manner of man this is who is dealing with Commonwealth business. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Health. I remind the Minister that some time ago I asked him to inquire into the prices of pharmaceuticals outside the national health pharmacopoeia that are available to the public from chemists. As many such items are carrying a retail mark up of 100 per cent and more over the wholesale price, will the Minister inform the Senate whether he has or has not instituted any inquiries into the matter? If he has not, will he refer this matter to the trade practices authority? 
I congratulate you,  Mr President,  on your election to the office of  President  of the Senate, an office which is one of the highest in the land. I trust and believe that you will fulfil the duties of this high office impartially and with credit to the Senate and yourself. 
 I ask. the Minister representing the Prime Minister whether he is aware that the incidence of unemployment is higher in Tasmania than it is in any other State? Will the Prime Minister give urgent consideration to making special grants to Tasmania for the purpose of building schools', homes for aged persons. government homes and safer roads and so create employment opportunities forTasmania's rising number of unemployed? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSON I have not had the advantage of seeing the figures that were released in the last 24 hours but I do not question the statement made by  Senator O'Byrne  that Tasmania is in a worse position than the other States. Albeit, the figures of unemployment across Australia are very low and, having regard to the nature of our economy and the fact that ours is a primary producing country, apart from isolated areas, they represent a state of full employment. As all honourable senators will know, matters such as this are dealt with at a Premier and Prime Minister level. If the Premier of Tasmania feels there is a special case for meeting circumstances that are peculiar to Tasmania he has the responsibility in the first instance of making representations to the Prime Minister. The Commonwealth will then examine the request. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I refer to an important petition which was presented yesterday by a Government senator.  Senator Rae,  in relation to the necessity for banning the use in warfare of all chemical toxic substances thus bringing Australia into line with international opinion and the Geneva Protocol of 1925. Will the Government take note of the fact that a Government senator has presented a petition protesting against the weapons used by Australia and her allies in the Vietnam war? Will it accept this change of heart as further evidence of the far-reaching desire in Australia for us to sever immediately our connection with this inhuman method of warfare? Is it not true that such an amazing change of attitude by a Government senator who has, in the past, defended our involvement in this conflict effectively illustrates the majority attitude in Australia today? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONIt is my understanding that yesterday a number of petitions in identical terms were presented by honourable senators on both sides of the chamber. It is not for me to sit in judgment on a petition. I think the petitions were referred to a committee. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONIn any event it is a matter of examination of the proposals of the petitioners in relation to an interpretation of the Geneva Protocol. To try to level a personal imputation in some unhappy way against an honourable senator in relation to petitions which were presented, as  Senator O'Byrne  has done, on the eve of his departure on a mission of the Parliament is most unfortunate. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe twist comes again. Honourable senators opposite could not lie straight in bed when it comes to some issues. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONHonourable senators try to give implications on a matter in a subtle way but when we bring it out in the open they do not like it. There is a clear implication in the question that there is something sinister in some honourable senator who has, as he is obliged to do, presented a petition to the Parliament.I reget that that has been said. 
My question is  directed to the Minister for Civil Aviation and refers to the use of Tullamarine Airport, which is a great credit to the designers and everyone concerned with it.I would like to draw the Minister's attention to some things that I have seen myself and have heard from other people who have travelled through, and who have personal experience of, this airport. Would the Minister investigate whether closed circuit television screens will be installed in the Trans-Australia Airline section of the Tullamarine terminal as have been installed in the Ansett section? Also, could a direction be given to ongoing passengers of where to find their departure lounge if there is a delay between the time of their coming off a plane and going on to another flight? Could the quality of the television screens be improved to project the flight numbers and times of departure in larger characters because at the moment they are very difficult to see? Further, pending the installation of closed circuit television screens in the TAA section, would the Minister ask the Department of Civil Aviation to provide an information officer who could be clearly identified so that people could ask their way, how to get out of the airport and how to find their departure lounges? 
How much was it before? 
I would like to associate myself with this motion of condolence to the relatives of the late 
Benjamin Courtice. Perhaps I am one of the few members of the Senate who actually worked with  Senator Courtice  during his time as Minister for Trade and Customs. In my association with him I found him to have many good qualities. He was a man of very even temperament, a man who was a good mixer, who was admired and trusted by his colleagues and respected very highly by those who differed with him politically. I think it was a great tribute to the late senator that a newspaper report of the State funeral which was accorded to him stated that representatives of 19 Ministries attended the funeral. That so many of his former colleagues should pay him this mark of respect, being the last one that they could pay him, indicates the affection in which he was held. 
It is interesting to note and to put on record that  Senator Courtice  was one of the old style Australian pioneers who left school at 13 years of age. He worked hard in the sugar mills and became closely associated with the sugar industry. He then realised the things that were, happening between employer and employee - unfortunately they still exist - and he realised also that unless men stood up for their rights, were properly organised and were prepared to stand up as men they would continue to suffer injustice. In forming the Sugar Workers Union, which later became associated with the Australian Workers Union, he made a great contribution to the history of the trade union movement and the political movement of Australia. 
He was appointed by the Queensland Government to the Senate. It was during his years in that chamber that he distinguished himself as a very able administrator and a very fine member of the Cabinet. He was also very capable in dealing with representations made to him by people. He would go to very great pains to answer questions and to investigate any problems that were put to him.  His  duties were carried out in the highest traditions of a Minister occupying such an important portfolio as that of Minister for Trade and Customs. I would like to offer my sincere sympathy to the members of his family - his son,  Mr H.  B, Courtice, his 3 daughters,  Mrs W.  D. Clay,  Mrs T.  Thiele and  Mrs 
Watts, and his grandchildren and great grandchildren. I extend to them my very sincere sympathy in their sad loss. 
 Mr President,  I assure you that my question will be brief and to the point, as I, like  Senator Hannan,  have been at the United Nations. I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs the following question: In view of the historic decision taken at the 26th session of the United Nations General Assembly to admit the People's Republic of China and now the momentous visit by 
President Nixon to the People's Republic of China for the purpose of normalising relations between the 2 countries- 
I refer to my previous question asked of the Minister representing the Minister for External Affairs, Is it not true that last year the Prime Minister,  Mr McMahon,  stated publicly that the dialogue between representatives of the People's Republic of China and Australia had been broken off? Can it be taken from  Senator Wrights  answer to my question that the dialogue has been resumed? If so, where has the resumption of that dialogue been publicised in the Australian Press? 
They were butchers. 
But we do find one area in which Western powers do exercise strong influence, and (hat is in Africa. As I have already said, I think it would be quite unfair and quite unjust to describe white South Africans, and in particular Afrikaners, as being some sort of representatives of a foreign colonial power. I think they have to be regarded as native South Africans. The fact is that the type of regime which exists in South Africa is a Western white regime, a Western while dictatorship by a minority of the population over the great majority of the population. That situation is even more true in Rhodesia, and it is obviously and palpably true in the case of the Portuguese colonies. In those places no pretence is made that this is some sort of independent Angola or Mozambique. The only pretence that is made is that in fact they are physically pari of Portugal itself. The Portuguese are quite insistent on this. They have signs up in their overseas colonies which read: 'Here is Portugal' and Portugal is a pluri-continental country* and things of that nature. This may deceive some people but it certainly does not appear to impress the great majority of the inhabitants of Mozambique or Angola. 
The point thai I wish to make is that when we are considering what is happening in the Indian Ocean we should get over the old gunboat ideas which have lasted since the 19th century, that if we want to have some problem solved in the Indian Ocean the way to do it is to call on the Americans to build a base at Cockburn Sound in Western Australia or, as  Senator Gair,  the leader of the Australian Democratic Labor Party, said, we should hand over the naval bases in Australia to the Japanese. As it happens I think that it is highly unlikely that the Americans or (he Japanese are very anxious to establish bases in Australia at this stage and become involved in some conflict which does not directly concern them. I think also it is even more incorrect to look on the problems which have to be resolved if we are to have peaceful relations with our neighbours in the Indian Ocean as being solely the result of the intervention of major powers, whether they be Britain, the United States, the Soviet Union or China. What we have to do, in our own self interest if for no other reason, is to see what is happening in the Indian Ocean and to try to come  to  some accommodation and some friendly relations with those people who, whether we like it or not, are our neighbours and will continue to be our neighbours. It is on this aspect that I believe that the total failure of the foreign policy of this Government has been proved. it has been established clearly already for everybody to see that the old techniques and the old ideas of maintaining white rule in non-white countries have failed. The Vietnamese people have established that. They have shown that even the United States, the most powerful country in the world, cannot impose its will on Vietnam. Although the tumult and the shouting and the aerial bombing still have not been stopped it is quite clear what has happened in Vietnam: The Vietnamese people have defeated the United States of America. The same things will happen in Africa and the rest of Asia. Just as the Dutch were driven from Indonesia, just as the British had to leave India, Pakistan, Ceylon, Burma, Malaysia and Singapore, just as they have left Tanzania, Zanzibar, Kenya and Malawi, the Smith regime will have to get out of Rhodesia. The Portu- guese will bc driven out of Angola and Mozambique and their other colonies. One fears that perhaps (here will be some sort of blood bath in South Africa. One hopes that there will be some other settlement, that some of these courageous, humane and far seeing white South Africans who do oppose the present Government in South Africa will meet with some success and that there will be a transformation within that country. But certainly the omens are not very promising. Certainly whatever does happen I think we can all rest assured that the existing Government in South Africa and the existing form of regime in South Africa is doomed to failure. 
How does Australia comport itself in these situations? We have seen an example of this just recently. In fact, only this afternoon when the Minister for Works,  Senator Wright,  was asked a question about the imprisonment of  Mr Garfield  Todd and Miss Judith Todd, he informed us that the Government's view was that nothing should be done about this, presumably because of the Pearce Commission being. in Rhodesia. Why this is a reason for nothing being done about, the imprisonment, solitary confinement and forced feeding of a young woman who for quite a long time was resident in this country, I am completely unable to understand. But I think the purport of this would be quite obvious to Africans, to people who are opposed to colonialism, to people who are opposed to the present regime in Rhodesia. The reason why people like  Senator Wright  say this sort of thing is that they are not sympathetic with those people who are in gaol; their real sympathies are with the Smith Government. That is where their sympathies lie. If the Australian Government has some concern for this part of the world, if it has some concern for humanity and if it has some concern for Australia's future relations with its neighbours in the Indian Ocean area it should exercise very strong pressure on the British Government to ensure that any settlement which is reached in Rhodesia is a settlement which guarantees constitutionally the rights of the overwhelming mass of the Rhodesian people - the non-whites - to be able to form their own government. But I have seen no evidence of such concern. 
The Australian Government's attitude towards South Africa is precisely the same. 1 know that trade is important' and that quite often one has to engage in trade' with countries with whose governments one docs not agree. I do not object to that. An intensive drive  in  being made in South Africa at present by the Australian Government to increase trade with that country. It is very interesting to note - I think this is really most significant - that in the material which is issued by the Austraiian Government concerning trading possibilities with South Africa all the assumptions of the South African Government, even the vocabulary of that Government, are accepted by the Australian Government. For example, official Australian Government publications refer to the African people of South Africa as the Bantu. This South African white racist expression which is used to describe 65 per cent of the South African population - the Africans - is an expression which is just as insulting to the Africans of South Africa as the expressions 'nigger' or 'boong'; yet we find that it is used in official Australian Government documents, ls it any wonder that when incidents occur such as that which took place at the recent Commonwealth Parliamentary Association conference in Canberra," representatives of countries such as Zambia, Uganda and Tanzania, are inclined to believe the worst in the event of any misunderstanding between Australia and African countries. 
The proposition 1 wish to put to the Senate, and I do not wish to speak at great length on it, is that it is time we forgot about the stories of gunboats of foreign powers coming into the Indian Ocean; that it is time we had a look at the peoples of the Indian Ocean themselves; that it is time we had a look at our immigration policy; that it is time we had a look at our aid programme; that it is time we had a look at the policies we adopt on colonialism in South Africa, Rhodesia and the Portuguese colonies; that it is time we ceased to find in reports of the United Nations General Assembly or in conferences which take place elsewhere that there is a hard core of three or four countries such as South Africa, Portugal and Australia supporting the position of the South Africans and the Portuguese. Constantly we are placed in the position of appearing to support those countries, and I believe the Australian Government in fact does support them. We have as yet had no statement whatsoever of any significance from any responsible member of the Government on the present situation in India and Bangla Desh. At. the present time - 1 suppose it. is understandable after a period of great violence - 'there appears to be yet more violence being exerted by the majority Bengali population of Bangla Desh against the minority non-Bengalis - in particular the Bihari people. No statement has been made on this matter by the Australian Government. We were nol consulted in relation to anything thai happened in India or Pakistan and we did not offer any intelligible views on what happened in India or Pakistan. Great changes took place without Australia playing any role whatsoever. 

 Mr President, I take the debate on (he tabling of this report as the opportunity for submitting that if we are lo survive with any respect from our neighbours and if we are to retain any reasonable relations with our neighbours we must show that we are just as concerned as the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and China appear to be about the interests of the great ' masses of people in this area who have suffered tremendous oppression througho.it the centuries and who continue to suffer oppression. I believe that in the near future there will he many more episodes such as that which took place in India and Pakistan, i believe that they are going to take place because of the problems of over-population, economic underdevelopment and the continuance of colonialism in the area. Australia will have to confront these issues. Australia should be playing an important role in ensuring that these issues are resolved peacefully. They will not be. resolved by talking about building new naval bases, by complaining about a few Russian trawlers wandering around Mauritius or by wondering what China is going to do next. lt is interesting to note - I will conclude by making some observations about this matter - that Australia has again been placed in a ludicrous position as a result of the present visit to China by  President  Nixon because, although I have already said that 1 believe the problems of the Indian Ocean area will be in the main resolved by the people who live in that area, there cannot be any doubt but that the relationships between the major powers are going to play a very important role. One can hardly find words to comment on the ludicrous situation in which Australia has now been placed. While on the one hand the Pope is offering prayers for the success of  President  Nixon's visit to Peking and, at the other extreme, both India and the Soviet Union are expressing concern about the possibility of a new alliance between China and the United States of America, we can get no intelligible statement whatsoever from this Government apart from the usual old anti-Communist claptrap it has been serving up for about 25 years that everything which is going on is the part of some Red plot. That sort of thing may well have been sufficient to frighten a lot of innocent people into voting for the Liberal Party at a number of tire federal elections from 1949 onwards, but I think the Government can be assured that not only is it not going to work this time but also that, it is no responsible way to deal with the real problems which confront this country. 
I make the appeal that in discussing the report which is before the Senate on the Indian Ocean region we do not get back to the nonsense about the Russians coming down to get us or the Chinese coming down to get us. We must look at the very real problems of Africa and this part of Asia and explain to ourselves and to the rest of the world what we intend to do with regard to the great movements which are taking place at present among the people of the countries surrounding the Indian Ocean. 
I am just giving illustrations. 1 believe that I have the right to  do  this because this is a very wideranging report. 1 am speaking about countries that ure involved with the Indian Ocean. I think I should be allowed a few minutes  in  which to make remarks about each of those countries. I am relating my remarks now to a country that is not shown on the  map  in the report. The country of which I am speaking is covered on the map by a printed block but it is one of the countries involved in Indian Ocean strategy. I refer to  the  recent monetary manipulation by which the Japanese are able to buy, with a revalued yen, our wool which is weighed now in kilos. If the Government were to make public the difference between the price Japan is paying per kilo for our wool with the revalued yen, and the price per pound that it paid with the yen on its previous basis, we would find that the wool grower was being gypped as he always  has been.  I should like to  see  an analysis of the situation. 
-The maximum was 36c. I thought 1 might be able to get  Senator Young  to say a word or two in relation to that. 1 would have preferred this report to have been prepared along more constructive lines. I would have liked more impetus to have been given to the only way of solving these problems - by supporting the United Nations in achieving international disarmament. The more fear that we put into the minds of the Australian people by reports such as this - the more we pander to those who have a self-interest in expanding and perpetuating the idea that international problems can be solved by war, the more troubles we will bring on our country. Surely we must have learned the lesson that you cannot solve your problems by war. Anyone who has supported the Government in sending our boys to be burned, maimed and kilted in Vietnam surely must have qualms of conscience now and surely must know that the whole thing has been a failure and that noone can win modern wars. After every war the parties must get round the table and discuss the situation. Yet we have before us a report which is accentuating the idea of war and virtually glorifying it. 
The report claims that we have to match whatever the Soviet Union is doing in the Indian Ocean.  Senator Carrick  quoted chapter and verse about Jane's ships, submarines and so on. Of course the Soviet Union has ships, submarines and so on but it is our fault that it has them. We have virtually forced the Soviet Union to become a super-power by reason of our foreign policy, by reason of United States foreign policy and by reason of British foreign policy which believed that the Soviet Union must be matched. We display a fanatacism in our belief that we have the right - whoever gave us the right, 1 do not know - to say that the Soviet system must not prevail and that our system must prevail. That is just not on. We have to learn to live and let live. We have to find some level of compromise. We have to find a way of getting round the table to discuss things before the war rather than after it. Many difficulties would be overcome if only people would come to that way of thinking. 
I believe that the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs has adopted a negative attitude in claiming that Australia has to match, or find others to match, the Soviet presence in the Indian Ocean. The Soviet Union has as much right to the oceans of the world as we have. Whatever strategy it may adopt in exercising that right it can have consequences for good or for ill. . It may bring about a round table conference which may result in disarmament. It may bring back the spirit of the United Nations which, in my view, is the forum in which these problems should be discussed and possibly resolved. If we adopt the attitude that anything the Soviet Union can do we can do better, or if we try to keep up with the Joneses, we will impoverish ourselves and the country that we imagine to be our opponent. Great problems confront us today. We should strive to improve the wellbeing of people wherever they live in the world. We should use our resources, our technology and the potential for education throughout the world. We should widen man's horizons and increase his dignity. Those are the positive objectives for which we should strive. We should abandon the negative objective of war. 
The debate on this report presents an opportunity for the Senate to think very deeply about what we are doing when we imagine that we can match the Soviet Union and, if necessary, even go to war with the Soviet Union to determine which is the superior power in the Indian Ocean. Other powers will want to patrol the oceans of the world and we will not be able to throw out a challenge to them. We must find a different way of solving the problem. As I mentioned previously, our neighbours are counted in hundreds of millions. Between 1,000 million and 1,500 million of our neighbours are underprivileged. We will not have many friends among them if we adopt a beligerent attitude. We must take the view that they have to live wilh us and we have to live with them. We certainly will not be able to do that by rattling the sabre. Virtually, that is what  Senator Carrick's  speech was all about. He said that anything the Soviet Union can do we can do better. 
I do not agree with the terms of the report. I think that the report is negative. The thinking of people throughout the world is much more constructive than that expressed in this report. Certainly the Committee is out of touch with reality because in this day and age no-one will win the next war. 
We have just heard from  Senator Carrick  a most interesing speech on the situation that confronts Australia in the new alignment of naval forces in the Indian Ocean. Perhaps we could say that his speech and his attitude would be classified as representing the good old colonial speeches made when Britannia ruled the waves and when the oceans of the world were freeways for the whites, for the English and those who were prepared to go along with the English. 1 wish to bring  Senator Carrick  up to present day events. Other countries in the world also believe that they should share the waves. I think that the British are content now to become part of the European area and to trade with and learn to live peaceably with the other countries of Europe. It seems a pity that a wonderful race of people such as the British has wasted its substance for over 100 years fighting for I do not know what. Now the British people find that the very people whom they have fought for so long are their natural allies and trading partners and that the old ideals and ideas of empire have faded away. So we are left here, as one of the former colonies and countries of the Empire, to look anew at where we stand in relation to the rest of the world. 

 Senator Carrick has quoted a number of figures from Jane's 'All the World's Fighting Ships' and other sources about the strength of the Soviet navy in the Indian Ocean. The honourable senator was not so rash as to say that Soviet vessels did riot have the right to be in the Indian Ocean. As a matter of fact, any country with a navy has a right internationally to sail the oceans of the world. In the past, we have been in the position where we could make it very difficult for a country such as the Soviet Union to exercise that right. Now we are reaching the stage where we are developing equal and opposite reactions. We must acquaint ourselves with and adapt ourselves to the fac:s of international life. 1 was not terribly impressed with the figures that were quoted by  Senator Carr  rick as to the strength of the Soviet navy. The fact is that we have caused the Soviet Union to build its fleet to the size that it is today. The Soviet Union was virtually a land-locked area. It did not have access to the seas of the world through its northern ports. Its activities were well policed in the Indian Ocean and the Pacific Ocean. The Soviet Union is exercising its right as a super-power, a status which it has achieved along with the United States of America, to accept what was given to us during our heyday as part of the colonial and imperialist power that was the British Empire and then the British Commonwealth. It is accepting now the rights that were given to us and saying: 'We can exercise them'. Whatever we do, we still have to admit that it has the right to do that. 
The proposition that  Senator Carrick  is putting forward is that we have to perpetuate this fanaticism which is getting the world into so much trouble, namely, that whatever the philosophy of these countries - the Soviet Union, China, North Vietnam, 
Cuba or one of the South American or African countries - it is evil and ours is right. If we follow this pattern it will mean that for the foreseeable future we will have to continue to divert resources into allaying this fanatical fear on the one hand and the belief that we can overthrow the philosophies and regimes of these countries on the other. 
If we examine the situation closely, we see that the frictions and wars which are taking place and which have taken place over the last 20 or 30 years have been justified by the American strategy or policy that if the Americans were able to create sufficient strength and power they could cause an undermining of the governments of the Soviet Union, China and various other countries scattered throughout the world. The Korean conflict was one example. The United Nations became involved in it against its better judgment or against its will. There was just as much manipulation to involve the United Nations in Korea  as  there was to try to obtain  a  vote against the admission of the People's Republic  of  China to the United Nations. But that is history now. That issue has been resolved. I believe that our involvement in Korea was part of the philosophy of the people  of  the United States, backed up by people such as  Senator Carrick  and the Australian foreign policy that we could bring about internal disruption and perhaps the overthrow  of  the governments of these various countries and, if we did not bring that about, we could mount attacks on them. 
The Soviet Union in particular has diverted most of its resources into adopting  a  defensive attitude. It has had to expand in depth into Czechoslovakia, Poland, Hungary and the other buffer countries and exercise its influence there because of the fear that the United States Central Intelligence Agency and that country's other instrumentalities which are practically extra-governmental would undermine the people's governments there and establish reactionary governments which would allow the Western powers, with its fanatical objection to people having their own form of government, to make attacks through these bordering countries. This world philosophy is the basic thing in 
Europe. This is what has kept Europe back from having peaceful relations with other parts of the world. 
The same applies to China. The people of the United States have been fed propaganda that the Chinese will come down to Australia. The Democratic Labor Party has sold to the Australian people, through radio and television, this propaganda that the Chinese hordes will come down through the islands, that the Red arrows will come down and that these people will do all sorts of things to our women. That type of thing is suitable for propaganda, but it has established a great fear of the Chinese people among the people of Australia. lt is not very long since the same type of propaganda was used in Indonesia. Yet recently some representatives of that country were our guests here. They were nol exactly what we were told they were. A few years ago we were told that they were about to mount an attack on Australia. That problem has been resolved. 
I have painted this broad canvas to illustrate how weak is the report that is before the Senate tonight. In the front of the report there is a map which shows Australia's position as it really is. We are part of the southern hemisphere and what one could call Greater Asia. There is no possibility of our moving ourselves from that geographical position. To our north there are more than 100 million Indonesians. We have no reason to command the respect of the Vietnamese people in view of the amount of bombs- 500 lb of TNT for each person in Vietnam - we have dropped on them. They have nothing for which to be thankful to us. I mentioned Korea earlier. When we were asked to make a decision about India and Pakistan we ran away, we vacillated and waited until the ball was over. In relation to the Middle East states, we are tied up in all sorts of devious policies under which we do nol declare ourselves. As to the African continent, we are not really friendly with any of the African countries because we are looked upon as a reactionary country aligned to the powers of the past. 
There is a new era in the world today. The old colonial idea has been challenged and found wanting. So we have to find a new way of approaching these matters. We  will not.  find it by calling upon our arma ments industry to build more armaments  and  enabling the disbursers, purveyors and sellers of war machines to make bigger profits. The  waT  industries thrive on the sort  of  atmosphere that this report creates. In this country we have so much to do  and so  many different avenues on which  wo  could expend our resources. Yet we have the spectacle of the Japanese coming in and taking over our natural resources. We have overseas investors coming from all directions and finding what a good thing it is to invest in Australia. We have the Country Party people claiming that it is wonderful that the wool industry has  been  pulled out of its plight; yet when  we look  at the changeover to the metric system mid the use of the kilogramme- 
The PR  ESIDENT  - Order. I think the honourable senator should get back to the subject matter of the debate, namely, the report of the Foreign Affairs Committee. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Health, ls it a fact that complexity and confusion have arisen in the operation and use of the national health scheme because the Government has failed to supply free hospital services to needy people who almost inevitably turn to outpatients treatment rather than to private medical treatment? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONIf complexity and confusion , that is alliteration, is it not , do apply, they should not apply in the circumstances to which the honourable senator refers. After all, the number  of  hospitals per se over which the Commonwealth would have control could be counted almost on the fingers of one hand. The Commonwealth has hospitals only  in the  Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. Perhaps  I  could rattle off the names of the places with hospitals over which the Commonwealth has control in the Northern Territory. They are Darwin, Katherine, Tennant Creek and Alice Springs. In a situation where there  is  an arrangement between the Commonwealth and the States in relation to hospitalisation, in certain circumstances patients  get  free hospitalisation and the States receive a subvention from the Commonwealth.  So  the generality of the question does not quite stand up to examination.  If  the honourable senator wants to embellish his question and narrow it down more precisely,  he  could put it to me again tomorrow. I will give him an appropriate answer  if it is  available to me. If not, I will have his question studied. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts whether it is a fact that the infant mortality rate for Aborigines is 6 times higher than the rate for other Australian children. If this is so, what research is being carried out into the cause of this great difference in the death rates and what form is the research taking? 
My question is directed to you,  Mr President.  I refer to a question that I. asked of the Minister representing the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts about Aboriginal land rights. You directed that the question be placed on notice. 1 ask you: What is my position relating to questions without notice? What was your reason for not directing the question to the relevant Minister? Which standing order prevented my directing the question to a Minister? 
I move; 
Thai the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later date. 
Leave granted: debate adjourned. 
COCKBURN SOUND Ministerial Statement 

 Senator DRAKE-BROCKMAN (Western Australia - Minister for Air) - by leave - I wish to make a statement on behalf of the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  regarding the proposed construction of a naval facilities at Cockburn Sound. Honourable senators will appreciate that when the personal pronoun T is used it refers to the Minister for Works. 
On 27th November 1971, I visited Garden Island on Cockburn Sound, Western Australia, to examine the proposed works for the Department of the Navy in the construction of the naval facility there. I was impressed with the beauty of the island and the unusual flora and fauna. Considerable work has been done on how best to preserve those features. I had intended making a statement on work there by the Department of Works and, in view of the present concern expressed by many in Western Australia, I propose to do so now rather than to wait until the Public Works Committee hearing is over. 
The vegetation of Garden Island consists mainly of areas of Rottnest Island pine, acacia and melaleuca - paper bark. Many of the areas consist only of acacia growing in thickets interspread with patches of grass. As such the island does not have the more normal vegetation structure of grasses, shrubs and trees growing together and it needs special consideration for the preservation of its vegetation. We have enlisted the aid of the West Australian Conservator  of Forests to  provide expert advice on flora control and fire prevention and we are following his recommendations. 
Clearing on the island is mainly in the form of 10 feet strips, which are essential for surveying, fire breaks and access, and is being regulated to allow regeneration of the main species of vegetation in the area. Some regulated burning will be done in accordance with the recommendation of the Conservator of Forests to ensure continuity of some of the main species of vegetation. Without such burning the probability is that some species will die out. Areas to be cleared for construction purposes will be extensively landscaped with tress and plants suited to the island conditions and supplies of Rottnest Island p ne are already available at any early stage of growth for use in landscaping. In addition, supplies of grass seed, hessian and rooted grasses are being arranged to cover any minor areas of erosion which may occur due to inadvertent disturbance to areas outside the construction zone. In choosing trees and grasses, advice has been and will be sought from those qualified and knowledgable of the island's conditions. 
The main animals on the island are the Tammar and a range of birds. We have consulted  Dr A.  R. Main, Professor of Zoology at the University of Western Australia, as to the measures necessary for their preservation and protection. The clearing and burning necessary to protect and develop the vegetation of the island will be conducted in a way which will preserve the needs of bird and animal life for feed and cover in accordance with the advice of  Dr Main. 
The clearing which has been done and which will be done in the future on Garden Island is a small proportion of the total area. On the basis of present planning it is expected that a total of approximately 550 acres will be cleared for all purposes associated with the construction of the naval support facility. All disturbed areas will be suitably landscaped to provide first class restoration. 
There will be a hearing by the Public Works Committee of the Commonwealth Parliament in Western Australia on all these matters during April and those concerned with environmental and other matters associated wilh the island will, of course, be entitled to present evidence and give their views. This has been communicated to various persons who have already expressed interest. I will be moving this week for a reference of this matter to the Public Works Committee in accordance with normal practices Honourable senators will be aware of the research programme on Cockburn Sound being undertaken by the Department of WOrKS in conjunction with the Fremantle Port Authority on the use of biological monitors for detecting and predicting water pollution. By this means, Cockburn Sound's ecological health is being watched carefully. 
The purpose of  Senator Webster's  contribution has been far from clear. Indeed, I thought he had picked up the wrong notes because what he said had no relevance to the debate. I shall get back on to the track again and remind the Senate of the subject matter of this debate.  Senator Murphy's  motion was worded in the following terms: 
That  Senator Greenwood  has dishonoured the office of Attorney-General: 
by making prejudicial statements about one Barry Johnston who has been charged  but  not  yet tried  on an information alleging a breach of the National Service Act, and 
by involving the office of Attorney-General in a party political controversy in connection withthat pending criminal case. 
I do not think that honourable senators can have any doubt about the purpose of this debate, but for the enlightenment of those who have forgotten some of the matters which  Senator Murphy  raised while introducing this motion I would like to quote some of the main points of his speech. He said that the office of AttorneyGeneral is an ancient and honourable one. I believe that the debate today has proved that this ancient and honourable office has been dishonoured. 

 Senator Murphy said that the AttorneyGeneral is a Minister of the Crown whose position is different from that of other Ministers. But during the course of this debate the Attorney-General  (Senator 
Greenwood), as he tried to justify his position, claimed that he was no different from any other Minister. I believe that he is afflicted with an obsession that seems to be quite common, not only amongst the people of his political persuasion in Australia, but also in other parts of the world. 
No. I would just like to point out that  Senator Greenwood  - or  Senator Grimwood  as he is known by some honourable senators - is part of the society in which we have been living for 20 years - a society of double standards.  Senator Webster  quoted the double standards repeatedly - those of deception, false propaganda and cynicism, and a belief that one can fool most of the people most of the time. 

 Senator Greenwood and other Ministers cynically believe that it is the numbers that count. They believe that they can use the Australian Democratic Labor Party or any other means during an election campaign to gain power and that the power thus granted to them allows them to embark on anything to any limits. They believe that they can justify their actions by claiming they were given a mandate under a certain set of conditions. This has tended to make a farce of Parliament. 
The people of Australia were fooled completely by the propaganda that led us into the Vietnam war. The reasons for this debate and the degrading of the position of Attorney-General can be traced directly to the falsehoods and the deception that led the people of Australia to believe that we were justified in legislating ourselves into the Vietnam war. The Pentagon Papers have proved to the people of America - and this was proved later, after the truth seeped through our propaganda and censor's machinery, to the people of Australia - that the authorities in the United States lied. They have proved also in turn that the authorities in Australia lied to the Australian people about the exchange of letters. The people of Australia have never been told that the authorities of the United States sat round a table and plotted the overthrow and assassination of Ngo Din Diem in order to get a change of Government so as to be able to continue American policy in Vietnam. 
Of course the CIA was involved. This was admitted in the Pentagon Papers. So we have a basts of deception on which the Attorney-General is now trying to build up. He has succeeded to the position wherein he continues his long line of deception.  His  predecessors created it for him.  Sir Robert  Menzies and his successor  Mr Harold  Holt created this situation for him. Harold Holt disappeared from the scene as did L. B. Johnson because they realised that they had been sucked into this living lie which had been sold to the people of the United States and Australia. The whole idea of national service is against the will of the Australian people. They did not know the circumstances behind this legislation. Traditionally they have been against conscription. They have always demonstrated this through the years. Tonight by way of interjection 1 reminded the Senate of objections against conscription dating back to the First World War. This objection is ingrained in the Australian people. You can get the best men voluntarily. You bring out the worst of men by conscription and compulsion. 
 The national servicemen have had no option. They have been the birthday boys so that the Government could get conscripts to send to Vietnam on the cheap. The Government gol them at a time when they had no vote. 
That is right. Not only that, but the Government got these men on the cheap because they are unmarried. The Government does not have to pay the lousy pittance it is paying ex-servicemen from the first and second World Wars. The Government is receiving complaints about that. But it chooses these 18-year olds because it gets them on the cheap. It pays them the least amount possible because these men have no dependants. These birthday boys are picked out of the barrel of death. This is the type of Government which talks about the rule of law. What hypocrisy! What utter contempt of the people it is governing. There is law in that. It is complete deception. Yet the 
Government wonders why young people throughout the country go out and demonstrate against this law. Throughout the western world, particularly in the United States and Australia, there is a reaction from young people who in Australia are prepared to go out in the streets and tell the Government that this is an unjust law of which they do not approve. Yet what do we have? In the United States we have examples where troops come out and mow the young people down and there are bashings and the type of thing we have here in Australia when these people are demonstrating against a bad law. I make the point that  Senator Greenwood  represents and illustrates this fanaticism which has been built up in the minds of reactionary people.  Senator Greenwood  has all the hallmarks of the people who built Germany to the state which led it to its own destruction. 
 Senator Marriott  smokes too many, that is why he is too thin. This fanaticism of  Senator Greenwood  and his colleagues has been born of the political ideology which says that power comes out of the numbers. Some people say it comes out of the barrel of a gun. But it has been the philosophy of this Government that if it can deceive the people at election time it can protect the status quo by any methods at all, particularly deception. Today we see the hounding of a man by the Attorney-General of this country. He and his colleagues have tried to get away from this charge.  Senator Murphy,  during the course of his remarks said: What are the facts? He went on to state exactly what he meant. I shall quote what he said, bell, book and candle. He stated: 
. the Attorney-General lias initiated an attack upon an accused person that is without precedent in the history of Australia. 

 Senator Greenwood and his colleagues cannot contradict that the attacks, the imputations and the insinuations which have been made by the Attorney-General are without precident and are unbecoming the AttorneyGeneral of this country.  Senator Murphy  continued: 
He has disparaged the accused day after day in the Press, on television, on radio and in the Senate. 
No-one can contradict that. We have heard  Senator Greenwood.  We have read of him saying this. On television we have seen him disparaging the accused. After all, as we were reminded, this man is innocent in the eyes of the law and in the eyes of anyone - by  Senator Greenwood  - until he is proved guilty. Sentor Murphy also drew attention to the fact that the AttorneyGeneral had improperly referred to the accused's previous convictions and to a previous imprisonment. He also accused him of a contemptuous attitude for lawful processes. Is this the action of an impartial man, a man holding the highest legal office in the land, a man who, once he is appointed to the high position of AttorneyGeneral, should be beyond the nit picking of politics. This is virtually what  Senator Greenwood  has been engaged upon - nit picking for miserable political purposes. 
The honourable senior would be an expert, because 1 have never seen a better nit except in the park  win  re the monkeys are. The AttorneyGeneral, too, has referred to evasion and defiance of the law. He has intruded party politics by calling upon the ALP and individuals to join in the disparagement and prejudice by disowning the accused. I shall quote from an article written by Gavin Souter in the 'Sydney Morning Herald' last year. He said: 
What made  Senator Ivor  Greenwood a Liberal? 
Later he said: 
Ivor Greenwood says that he came to his political position through religion . . . 'The most important thing in this world is the individual soul' . . . 'To me it was the natural thing to move into a political ideology where you endeavour to strengthen the individual personality and  responsibility  and call upon individuals to act on their own initiative. 
This is the whole principle involved here. These men of conscience like Barry Johnston have chosen in their own way to follow the dictates of their conscience and of their own soul.  Senator Greenwood  is supposed to be a man of religion. He believes that he wishes to strengthen the individual personality and to call upon individuals to act on their own initiative. Yet over the recent period his actions have been such as to stifle the right of a person to have a conscience and to condemn him as being guilty before he has been properly tried. Gavin Souter goes on to state that the Attorney-General had a distinguished start at the Bar. At one time he shared chambers with 2 other Scotch College old boys. One of his former colleagues said: 
Ivor is a fair lawyer, I think a good lawyer . . . But in my view he's also a nitpicking lawyer. Some people, of course, would say a lawyer's lawyer. He is very pedantic in the committee area. 
In that area he was very active both legally and politically. From 1963 to 1968 he was honorary secretary of the Law Council of Australia and from 1952 to 1968 he was on the State Executive of the Victorian Liberal Parly. Onwards and upwards! From 1966 to 1968 he was one of the Victorian party's four vice-presidents, and in 1968 he was chosen to fill the Senate vacancy caused when John Garton  transferred  to the House of Representatives. 

 Senator Greenwood was a strong Gorton man until some weeks before the Prime Minister's downfall. He became disenchanted, however, moved in strongly behind  Mr McMahon  and won the new Prime Ministers gratitude with some timely help in Melbourne. 

 His reward came quickly. In March, at the age of 44, he was appointed Minister for Health. When the Attorney-General's portfolio became vacant in August, there was some speculation that  Mr McMahon  would offer it back to Mi Hughes, a figure of roughly the same political texture as  Senator Greenwood  in almost all respects except his feelings about  Mr Gorton.  It went to  Senator Greenwood. 
Further, I quote  Senator Greenwood's  views on the death penalty. This article states: 

 Senator Geenwood's  views on the death penally have changed little since he came to the Senate. His speech opposing the Death Penalty Abolition Bill last month was almost identical with the one he delivered in a similar debate 3 years ago. 
I am quoting from an article entitled 'The making of a Minister,' from the 'Sydney Morning Herald'. The article was written by Gavin Souter. 1 think that this is the most quotable quote of all: 
Only 3 weeks before his appointment as AttorneyGeneral,  Senator Greenwood  shocked some of his fellow barristers with an address on 'The Lawyer As An Investigator' at the Legal Convention in Melbourne. He said that the power to compel answers (presumably even self incriminating ones) ought lo be fundamental at company and other public investigations. 
Generally', he said, 'we are too tender atom the rights of individuals who, in circumstances of apparent, wrongdoing, can claim that they are not obliged lo answer questions. 1 do not see why, taking the proposition to its ultimate the security of the State should be imperilled because a person is able lo remain silent - when prima facie he is capable of giving relevant information. 
So, we have here  Senator Greenwood,  the man of the church, the superstar. On the other hand he says that the most important thing in the world is the individual soul. 
He also said: 
To mc it was the natural thing to move into a political ideology where you endeavour to strengthen the individual personality and responsibility and call upon individuals to act on their own initiative. 
So we see this contradiction in the personality of the Minister who holds the exalted position of Attorney-General.  Senator Greenwood  is so contemptuous of this debate that he chooses not to remain in the Senate. He does not wish to hear the debate. I see that he has now returned to the Senate. He finds that this is the place where he should be. 
This matter has been canvassed quite widely. I believe that  Senator Greenwood  stands condemned because he has dishonoured the Oil iCe of Attorney-General. I believe that he could redeem himself partly by pledging to the Senate that no longer will he take part in the persecution and prejudicing of the case of Barry Johnston, that he will withdraw i he warrant for bis arrest and, in doing so, will show a little, bit of the quality of mercy and of judgment that traditionally has been exercised by Attorneys-General down through history. At the present time this honourable position stands in danger of criticism and being degraded. I believe also that because of his political obsessions  Senator Greenwood  has brought into the position of Attorney-General something which has not been present in that position before but his immaturity in handling his ministerial portfolio and his immaturity in parliamentary matters are showing out in this case. Even if he has the numbers to defeat this mo:ion, if nothing else resit' ts .1 am certain that these facts having been exposed in public will make him mend his ways considerably. 
I would like to draw the attention of the Senate to a question asked on 22nd February by  Senator Wriedt,  my colleague from Tasmania, of the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman). Senator Wriedt  asked: 
My question  is  directed to the Minister for Air. Did a committee of inquiry recently investigate allegations of mistreatment of a Launceston Royal Australian Air Force trainee? If so, what are the committee's findings and when will they be tabled  in  the Parliament? 
The Minister for Air answered: 
On hearing of this occurrence through the Press, I set up an inquiry into the matter.  I  have the report before me at the present lime and I am hopingthat I will be able to make a statement to the Senate later this week. 
Yesterday the Minister replied to the question previously asked without notice by  Senator Wriedt  and I want to ask the Minister whether lhat reply takes the place of the statement on the report that he had before him when he answered the question on 22nd February. Does that answer to the question represent the statement that he promised to make to the Senate? I would like also to make some remarks about the answer given to  Senator Wriedt.  The reply to his question was as follows: 
On  22nd  February  Senator Wriedt  asked me a  question relating to allegations of mistreatment of a Launceston Royal Australian Air Force trainee. I now have the following reply to  Senator Wriedt's  question: 
Allegations were made last month  of improper  treatment of  a  RAAF apprentice, James Peter Jacob, at RAAF 'Laverton', during his period  of  service in the RAAF from 4th January 1972 to 10th January 1972. As a result of these allegations I directed that a RAAF court of inquiry be set up and this was convened on 12th January 1972 to investigate and report on the allegations. In particular the court was required to investigate allegations that Apprentice Jacob was subject to improper treatment in the apprentice living-in quarters at Royal Australian Air Force Base 
Laverton'  on Sunday, 9th January 1972, and to inquire whether Air Force procedures in relation to Apprentice Jacob were inadequately or improperly followed and whether any circumstances indicated that he was not treated in accordance with Air Force Orders and acceptable Air Force procedures. 1 should perhaps at the outset emphasise that the RAAF does not and will not tolerate any physically violent, degrading or bullying behaviour towards any  of  its members, especially its junior  members,  and there are strict instructions forbidding personnel  to  take part in initiation ceremonies. The court  of  inquiry has taken evidence on oath from officers. NCO's and airmen at the RAAF School  of  Radio,  from ex-apprentice  Jacob and  his  father, and from officers  at  RAAF Laverton' and Headquarters Support Command, and the court's reports and findings are now to hand, including  a  covering report and comments by the Air Officer Commanding, RAAF Support Command. 
In relation to its inquiry, the court has established  that  Apprentice Jacob was subjected to the following: 
He was forced to make the bed of a second year apprentice; 
He was asked a question relating to personal habits; 
He was required to pay respect to second year apprentices by standing up in the presence of second year apprentices and continually being required to say 'excuse me leading apprentice'; 
He was about to be hosed in the shower room after  a  number of other first year apprentices had been hosed. The duty NCO arrived in time to prevent this action. 
The court ascertained that the majority of first year apprentices were required to participate in these events or incidents, and that whilst some apprentices did indicate mild resentment at their participation in the above events, the larger majority considered them to be horseplay or good fun. I should inform the Senate that Apprentice Jacob first reported tor duty to the RAAF  at  Laverton' on 4th January 1972 to commence his training as a member of No. 26 Radio Apprentice Course. The day after he arrived he informed RAAF Radio School authorities that he had made  a  mistake in joining the RAAF and wished to be discharged. Whilst arrangements were under way to effect his discharge from the RAAF, which took place on the 10th January 1972, the events which I have referred to earlier took place on the 9th January 1972. 
During the course of the inquiry the court became aware of reports of improper incidents and procedures concerning other apprentices at RAAF School of Radio. As a result the terms of reference of the court were extended to investigate these reports. As a result of these further inquiries the Air Officer Commanding Support Command has advised me that certain initiation practices were imposed on first year apprentices by second year apprentices at RAAF School of Radio despite specific orders to the contrary and that disciplinary action is to be taken against a number of leading apprentices. 
The Air Board has expressedits concern to me on the position and has assured me that existing orders and instructions which prohibit initiation ceremonies or happenings of this nature willbe repromulgated and that it will be re-emphasised in the strongest terms to all concerned that these practices will not be tolerated. The Board has also assured me that apart from these incidents at the RAAF School of Radio, there is nothing to suggest that such practices are in operation at other RAAF training units. 
I have accepted these assurances of the Air Board and whilst one cannot be sure that isolated instances will not arise in the future, I can assure the Senate that the matter will be closely watched and that firm disciplinary action will be taken should it be necessary in the future. 
I should like to make this comment: Firstly, the Minister has not tabled the report of the court of inquiry and he has not made any specific statement about it. I suppose that we can take this answer to the question as being the statement that he said he would make. But the facts of the case are that these findings of the court of inquiry are completely inadequate when one considers the reason why the court of inquiry was set up. 
It has been pointed out that Apprentice Jacob was forced to make the bed of a second year apprentice, that he was asked a question relating to personal habits, that he was required to pay respect to second year apprentices and so on. What actually happened is described in a report by John Hayes, and it is supported by James Jacob himself. Other evidence will be coming to me, but this report states: 
Second-year RAAF cadets at the Laverton (Vic) base tried to make a Launceston apprentice admit that he was a pervert and illegitimate, the youth said yesterday. 
The apprentice . . . said the cadets ill treatment frightened him so much that he took an empty bottle to bed in case he was attacked. 
The morals of the second-year cadets are very low,' Jacob said. 
I can't say just how low they are without shocking everyone.' 
I should mention that this boy has informed us (hat not only was he personally humiliated and assaulted by the threat that his private parts would be painted and interfered with but also that he was deeply hurt about this treatment. The report continued: 
Jacob was discharged from the base last Monday after a career in the R.A.A.F. lasting just  10  days. 
Jacob said that he felt that the cadets would single him out for special attention in the future because he had refused to - 
Admit he was a pervert and a bastard; 
Make other derogatory remarks about himself: or 
Leap around the barracks like a frog. 
Jacob said his refusal to do these things made the cadets angry. 
He said he feared reprisals and took the empty bottle lo bed to use as a weapon is necessary. " The cadets' suggestions had put me in such a mental state that I was ready to belt off anybody who came near me," he said. " I was so deeply disturbed that, honestly, I was going to go over the wall. "At one stage the cadets called us all out, made us strip and then hosed us all down. " I could put up with this, but not with all the other indignities as well." 
He said the experiences at Laverton had completely disillusioned him. He had wanted to be an airman for as long as he could remember. 
He was in the Air Training Corps at St Patrick's College, Launceston, for three years before joining the R.A.A.F. 
*  e * 
He said that even before the bastardisation at Laverton began, he had doubts about having joined the Air Force. "Just after I was kitted out I looked around the base and said to an officer, 'I don't think this will suit me; I think I've made a mistake.' "I think he knew I had made up my mind thaI I wanted to get out. " Then some other new apprentices started coming in and I made a few friends and things didn't look so bad. "But then the scond-year apprentices came in and that was when the trouble started. "They began by making me stand up every time they came into the barracks.  o * * *  "They wanted me to say, 'Excuse me, leading apprentice', every time I passed them.  "1  saw no reason why  1  should say this. "After all, they'd only been in the Air Force less than two years themselves and had no real seniority. "They tried to make me stand up and say derogatory things about myself - to say that  1  was a pervert and a bastard. "I refused. "You'd expect a bit more from second-year cadets than a childish attitude like that. "So I just said to them, 'No, I won't be in it*. "I then went to a sergeant and got permission to ring home. "I told my parents that I wanted to get out, otherwise I'd go A.W.O.L. sooner or laterprobably sooner. "I was called into the commanding officer the next morning. "I told him I wanted to get out and he agreed." 
This report by  Mr Hayes  appeared in the Launceston 'Examiner' on Friday, 14th January. My reason for raising this matter tonight is that the form of report presented by the Minister in answer to a question on this subject is completely inadequate to answer the charges made. I believe that in this case there has been an appeal from Caesar to Caesar and that those who supplied the Minister with the report have nol given him all the facts. 
I suggest that the only way in which this matter can be cleared up is by making the report available either to the Senate or to the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  on a personal basis - whichever the Minister wishes. There is a precedent for action of this kind. The Minister for the Navy  (Dr Mackay)  tabled in the Parliament a confidential report on bastardisation in the Navy in Western Australia. A report on bastardisation at Duntroon was presented in the House of Representatives by the Minister for the Army. Therefore the report on the incident involving  Mr Jacob  should be made available and also we should be made aware of the details of the incident and evidence that was presented to the court of inquiry and later made available to the Minister. I am certain that the Minister would not tolerate such a flimsy cover-up as this report indicates. I hope that early action will be taken in relation to this incident involving this young man who has been scarred for life by the indignities that he had to suffer during his very short sojourn in the Royal Australian Air Force. 
I have had some experience of the morale and conduct of people in the RAAF. They have been of the very highest order. The practices to which I have drawn attention should be stamped out very quickly. There is nothing in the report to indicate that the so-called senior men at the school who have been engaging in these practices have been in any way reprimanded or punished. The whole setup of the school should be subjected to very close scrutiny. Had this type of thing been reported beforehand by the NCOs instead of being tolerated by them, an inquiry  would not have been necessary. The whole matter needs proper ventilation and I hope that the Minister will have another look at it and clear it up because at present it is very much under a cloud. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Will the Minister for Primary Industry confirm that he has knowledge of the proposal to dump into the sea 540 million surplus eggs? Will he make representations to the Cabinet to prevent this scandalous waste of food when so many people throughout world are on mere subsistence levels? Will the Minister assure the Senate that the United Nations food relief instrumentality or other instrumentalities have been made aware of this proposal and other similar plans that may have been drawn up and thus prevent this monstrous proposal of the Victorian Egg Board being implemented? 
Earlier I asked a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry relating to the dumping of eggs by the Victorian Egg Marketing Board. Has the Minister any further information which he can give me on that subject? 
1 commend the Government on the introduction of this Bill to amend the Dairy Product Export Control Act. The whole objective of setting up milk plants in Asia was lo expand in particular and to encourage our trade in that region. This is of interest, to me because during the early 1960s I was a member of a Parliamentary delegation which toured various South East Asian countries including Burma, Thailand, Malaysia, Singapore, Indonesia and the Philippines. These plants were in the infant stage at that time. But the people concerned were greatly confident that their activities would expand and develop rapidly to supply a long felt need for these valuable commodities in that area. 
Looking al the figures, I see that since 1963 the Board has shipped butter oil and skim milk powder valued at $36m to these plants. This means that in the period since 1963 - let us say 8 years - approximately $4.5m worth of dairy products has been sent to the South East Asian area each year. The Board estimates that in 1971-72 about 10,000 tons of butter in the form of butter oil and 30,000 tons of skim milk powder worth some Si 5m will be shipped. It seems to be rather odd that in 8 years the Board was able to export products worth $36m only, yet it anticipates a trade of $l5m in the current financial year. 1 ask the Minister for Air  (Senator DrakeBrockman)  to provide a little more detail of what has caused this big change in the figures. Why in one year does the Board anticipate exports worth $!5m in respect of 10,000 tons of butler in the form of butter oil and 30,000 tons of skim milk powder when the average over the previous 8 years has been $4.5m? 
In his second reading speech, the Minister said: 
Apart from providing a significant outlet for Australian dairy products the Board's plants are playing an important role in the development of food technology in the South East Asian region and in providing nutritious dairy products for the people of the area. 
If the Board is doing this, why has the plant in Singapore been given up? What is the reason? I should think that the expanding standard of living in Singapore would have made it one of the ideal areas for increased production. Yet the Board has disposed of its capital equity in Singapore but is continuing to supply raw materials. Did the Singapore plant become uneconomic or was it running so well that the Government decided to hand it. over to private enterprise because of its success. I would like some details from the Minister on that point. 
The second reading speech continues: 
The joint plant ventures have also done much to foster goodwill between Australia and the countries concerned. 
I believed that this was one of the reasons for setting up this project. It has met with a good deal of success. But it would appear that this has been a very low key activity in view of the thousand million people who live in Asia and the limited outlets that are available for our products, including Singapore, Manila. Bangkok, Djakarta and Phnom Penh. I believe that we should extend our activities to areas such as China and Japan, set up plants similar to those established in South East Asia and sell our products in those countries. We should have representatives on the spot and, if necessary, supply these countries with surplus dairy products, even at cost. It keeps the cycle going. It does much to foster goodwill Between Australia and those countries which keep our dairying industry going, lt gives an incentive to the industry here in other ways. I think that the idea of having these plants throughout Asia should be expanded and developed. In his second reading speech the Minister stated: 
To dale the Board has invested a tOtal of $5,918,000 in the plants- $2,400,000 in (he form of share capital and $3,518,000 as loans for equipment, working capital and raw materials. These investments have included profits from the. plant operations which have been used  progressively  to develop the existing plants and to establish new plants. However the point has been reached where the  Board  may not be able to depend on the Dairy Industry Stabilisation Fund to fully finance ils plant activities.  i do not think that much information has been given to the Senate to explain that aspect of the activities of the Board. It has put a lot of money into the plants. It has invested nearly $6m. In 8 years it has exported products valued at $36m. In the coming year it hopes to export products worth $15m. But there seems to be a contradiction in the amount which has been expended on new plants. No mention is made at all of how the Singapore plant was liquidated. Are there any plans for expanding in the future into various countries? Most of all I should like to know from the Minister why the dairy farmers should elect to the Parliament and support a government which will not recognise a country of between 750 million and 800 million people who are potential eaters of this highly nutritious food. It beats me that dairy farmers can be so dumb as to allow this sort of thing to go on when there are potential markets in that country. We seem to be playing around with politics and letting the dairy farmer's soul go marching on, one might say. 
The concept of establishing these plants in Asian countries is the answer, of course, to finding an alternative outlet to the traditional exporting outlets of the European Common Market where we are going to come up against some big problems for the primary producers. We have to start developing our trade in the natural areas - that is among our neighbours in South East Asia and, for that matter, the whole of Asia. 1 would like to have some elaboration and clarification of these points from the Minister when he replies. There seems to be some contradictions in the overall pattern which has been outlined in his second reading speech in support of this measure. As has already been stated, we on this side of the Senate support the measure. At least a report of activities has been given. I hope that there will not be any restriction on the funds which are made available because there are many valuable aspects of this matter. This is not only a matter of good public relations nor of keeping some outlets for the industry in a glutted market but also it is a matter of doing the very humane thing of making food available for people at a price which they evidently can afford to pay. In doing that we are helping them lift their standard of living. 
Finally, 1 ask why we cannot have the Australian Dairy Produce Board expand its activities even temporarily to free some of this egg pulp which is going to be dumped into the sea or which is not going to be pulped at all. It would be distributed through this channel. After all, it is a nutritious food. We have the outlets. To me it is appalling to think that we are so rich in commodities and so poor in spirit that we can tolerate this awful contradiction of people starving in other parts of the world while we are throwing (he bounties into the sea. In my book it is very immoral. It annoys me to think that nothing can be done about this. How can a responsible government authority and a government tolerate it? I hope that the Australian Dairy Produce Board can do a little bit of co-operating with its poor sisters and see whether it can distribute some of this nutritious egg pulp through its distribution plants. I do not think there is anything better than a drop of reconstituted milk with an egg in it - an egg nog. If one is lucky enough to be able to brace it with something else, it is angel's food. I think that these people ought to get together on this matter. 
Eventually, if one drinks too much of it, it puts one where the angels live. We already have these distribution points established. The initiative which was taken by the Dairy Produce Board should be expanded, developed and encouraged. I do not think that the Board should be short of money to do this. It is a national project which is helping a section of primary industry which needs continuity and incentive. While the Board is doing this it is doing a good job on a national level. I support the Bill. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. In view of the nation wide concern over  Mr Snedden's  revelation that new forms of taxation are under consideration, can the Government give a firm assurance that any re-arrangement of the taxation schedules will not result in increased taxes, either directly or indirectly, for family men with working wives? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONIt is not true to say that what has been attributed to  Mr Snedden  is what he said. 1 think that this is an indulgence in what is called descriptive or interpretative writing. I think that is the fashionable description in the lobbies at present. It is what somebody chooses to interpret as what somebody else said. The report is not based on a statement made by  Mr Snedden. Mr Snedden  has made it abundantly clear that he has not made a statement in the sense in which it has been written. Having said that, 1 do not believe that I need say any more. 
I would like to associate myself with the expressions of condolence to the wife and family of the late ex-Senator Roy Kendall. My association with him dates back to his entry to the Parliament in 1949. As was mentioned, at one time he carried out the duties of Assistant Whip to Dame Annabelle Rankin. He was one of those co-operative and thoughtful members of the Parliament who always had the interests of the Senate at heart. We can say that he was a member of a very distinguished association of Whips who have graced the Senate. We very much regret his passing. I would like to mention the balance that he brought to debate on matters in which he was closely interested, particularly maritime matters which demonstrated his long experience. The value of the contributions that he made to the debates in the Senate will always be appreciated. He was a man of great sincerity with a very friendly personality and a kind nature. He never held a grudge. As a mat ter of fact, I was very proud on one occasion when I raised a matter in the Senate. He rose from the Government side and agreed entirely with all I said and praised my remarks. That was almost a miracle and I have always had reason to remember him for that. I wish to convey to his widow and to his family my personal sympathy in the loss of a very fine citizen. I hope they have the strength and the fortitude to overcome what must be a tremendous loss to them. 
I present the following petition: 
The Honourable the  President,  and Senators in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled will take immediate  steps to: 
Call a halt to ali closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the Public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree to which it* should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to National Development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
-The Customs Tariff Bill 1972 now before the Senate provides for amendments to the Customs Tariff Act 1966-1971. A number of changes are made concerned with 5 schedules which have been introduced into the House of Representatives and arising from Tariff Board reports on quite a number of commodities. It is of interest to me, and I think should be of great interest to the Senate, that the references that we are considering and the reports that are before us cover a wide range of commodities that are of great importance to the Australian economy. 
The First Schedule deals with plastic products and an investigation into the production of trout in Australia. The Second Schedule refers to woven shirts. The Third Schedule deals with chains and parts therefor, of iron and steel and light weight cotton sheeting together with a report from the Special Advisory Authority on woven manmade fibre fabrics. The Fourth Schedule applies to malleable cast iron pipe fittings and steam engines, boilers and power units. The Fifth Schedule proposes amendments in relation to mining, metallurgical, etc., machinery, diamond drilling machines and also track for tractors. The Sixth Schedule stems from further additions to the commodities included in Schedule A of the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement. The Seventh Schedule implements changes in relation to mining, metallurgical, etc., machinery and yeast, steam engines, boilers and power units and tetraethyl-lead, tetramethyl-lead and anti-knock preparations based on tetraethyl-lead or tetramethyl-lead 
The history of these reports in some cases extends to 1965. A report on plastic products was called for on 12th October 1965 when the reference was made to the Tariff Board. This means that it is in excess of 6 years since this matter was first referred to the Tariff Board. The reference for report on trout was initiated on 8th January 1970. The inquiry into woven shirts was referred in September 1968. The references in respect of woven manmade fibres and steam engines and boilers date back to 21st November 1967. I am reiterating the dates of these references not necessarily for the purpose of pointing out the necessity for any alteration in the present personnel of the Tariff Board but to give a more ready appreciation of the work that the Board is trying to do and the time lag that occurs between a reference to the Board and the presentation of the report on that reference to the Parliament. 
In the Tariff Board's report for the year 1.970-71 quite an amount of comment appears in 'Chapter 5: ADMINISTRATION*. Dealing with the subject of staff, the report states: 
On several occasions in recent years the Government has called for improvement in the quality of the Board's reports, particularly in the economic justification for its recommendations. For example, in a statement on tariff policy on 28th April 1971, the Minister for Trade and Industry said: 
It is clear that the more comprehensively, the Tariff Board, is able to take into account the significant economic and non-economic factors which the Government itself must take into account, the more valuable its reports will be to the Government. Similarly, the more comprehensively the Board is able to support its recommendations with a full exposition of the factual basis and its analysis of the facts, the more informed the Government will be when exercising its judgment and arriving at its decision. It is also evident that the Government needs as clear advice as the Tariff Board can give in its reports to enable the Government to reach judgments on the likely consequences of implementing the Board's recommendations. 
Having drawn that part of the Tariff Board's report to the attention of the Senate, I state that I believe not only should we be concerned with the time lag in the presentation of Tariff Board reports but also should we look at the fact that so many of these reports on references are presented together that we virtually are deprived of the opportunity for a thorough examination of the reports and the effect of the Board's proposals on the economy. This also illustrates the merit of the plea for the englargement of the Tariff Board and for an expansion in the number of its research personnel and permanent officers so that the increased staff can participate la the Board's work which leads to the framing of its recommendations to the Minister for Customs and Excise. 
In the course of the report for 1970-71, one of the members of the Tariff Board,  Mr Cossar,  drew attention to the use of temporary staff for post-hearing analysis work of the Board.  Mr Cossar  raises a roost important matter here. The report states: 
He believes that it is neither necessary nor desirable that persons other than the permanent officers of the Board's staff should participate in the Board's work which leads to the framing of its recommendations to the Minister. 
The report adds that  Mr Cossar:   . . does not doubt the sincerity of his colleagues meaning the other members of the Tariff Board:   in believing that specialists from universities with skills beyond the competence of the Board's permanent staff could make a contribution to the post-inquiry work of the Board but he considers that his colleagues have failed to anticipate the problems which could result from such procedures, lt could, in bis opinion, cause participants in tariff inquiries to believe that the Board's recommendations were being influenced by anonymous specialists. 

 Mr Cossar, in dissenting from the implied proposal to continue the practice of using suitably qualified part time staff for the post-hearing analyses, wishes to make it clear that he has not sought and will nol seek the employment of such persons. 
I have quoted quite extensively from the report to illustrate that the Tariff Board seems to be overburdened with references and that its full effectiveness is not being received by industry and in the economy. I presume that the reports are made available to the Department of Trade and Industry and to the Department of the Treasury much earlier than they are made available to members of Parliament. I point out the period of time that has elapsed between the commencement of an inquiry and its conclusion. In some cases, the inquiry commenced in 1965. That means that the reports are out of date and do not give the up to the minute information that is needed in an economy as fluid and as critical as ours is at present. 
During the debate in another place much stress was placed on the great importance, that the recommendations of the Tariff Board and the tariffs generally have on the economy. Basically this comes back to the purpose of and the reason for tariffs. The old battle prior to Federation of protection and free trade has been transposed into the Tariff Board's activities. Our economic policy is based on protection. We have to ask questions about the extent of protection, the norm for protection and . the basis upon which protection rests. We on this side of the Senate have as ohe of the basic tenets of our philosophy the maintenance of full employment. Therefore people who set up in this country industries which create employment opportunities must be given protection against the obvious and inevitable competition that we will get from other countries which have lower wage levels, often lower standards of living and many other factors which would make it impossible for' our goods to compete on an open market. 
The Tariff Board has the function of examining industries that are set up under these conditions and of making recommendations as to which should remain in production. This is a tremendously important factor in the economy. It has an effect not only on the rate of employment but also on the cost of commodities and the cost of production. In the past it has been stressed that no other single factor in economic policy affects the allocation of resources and the distribution of income more than does the policy on tariffs. The full extent of the influence and the activities of the Tariff Board is not recognised widely enough. Its recommendations to the Government, if implemented, could make a difference in the rate of inflation. So it comes back to keeping the balance between the proper claims of importers who feel that they can supply their commodities on a basis which can help the economy and the protection of our industries. 
It is of great interest to reiterate that the car industry in Australia is getting a high rate of protection - up to 67 per cent. It costs the Australian taxpayer $300m a year for the car industry. This protection has been provided through a definite plan and policy of the Government, but. that protection has an effect on the whole economy. It has an effect on our transport costs and on other costs of production.- It- has a great bearing on the stability of our economy. I stress again that the number of items collated in one Bill' is such that the Senate has not the opportunity to give to those items the type of examination that is needed. 
I refer now to the vexed problem of woven shirts that is exercising the minds of certain people throughout Australia. The Tariff Board inquiry was initiated in September 1968. Evidence was taken in Melbourne on 19th May 1969 and in Sydney on 28th and 29th May 1969. The previous report on and review of the industry wds in 1938. At that time the trade was predominantly in cotton shirts. The imports of these shirts were mainly from Japan. The manufacture of these shirts in Australia has been established over 50 years. According to reports of the Associated Chambers of Manufactures of Australia it is estimated that there are about 100 shirt manufacturers in Australia. Some manufacturers buy in fabric and distribute finished shirts either directly to retailers or through wholesalers. Commission manufacturers known as makers up produce under contract to larger manufacturers, distributors and retailers. The majority of manufacturers who gave evidence before the Tariff Board were working below capacity at the time of the public hearing - in some cases 25 per cent below. Other manufacturers had increased their capacity substantially or had plans for substantial increases. In most cases new investment involved the purchase of semi-automatic machinery and durable press finish equipment for the processing of polyester cotton shirts. 
The Associated Chambers of Manufactures estimated that the industry employed about 10,000 persons. However, this figure has since been challenged and it is estimated that the industry, including the smaller establishments, could employ as many as 30,000 people. The estimate of 10,000 persons was based on the employment figures of 10 companies, which were the larger manufacturers accounting for about 30 per cent of the Australian production of shirts. Most shirt manufacturers employ a high proportion of migrant women. The employers stated in evidence that lack of alternative skills tended to preclude many of these women from finding employment outside the clothing industry. This illustrates the importance of an industry such as this in absorbing those female migrants who come to Australia and who need avenues of employment of this kind. A further benefit of employment of this kind is that it introduces them into the Australian community in a way which is familiar to them and on a level that is known to them. 
It was also stressed during the inquiry that employment opportunities were provided in decentralised areas where clothing manufacture took place, but it was stated also that there were a number of clothing industries in industrial areas where male employment was high and that this afforded employment opportunities for females in those areas. It was estimated during the inquiry that the industry employed funds to the value of about $25m and it was stated that the profitability of shirt manufacture varied from year to year. Some of the larger manufacturers which were producing mainly for the lower priced volume markets had incurred losses or had earned profits which were less than satisfactory. The Shirt Manufacturers' Association of New South Wales claimed that the section of industry which was making losses at the time of the public hearing comprised those manufacturers which were working on low incomes. One distributor which engaged the services of several makers-up stated that it had been forced to pay low commissions. 
The salaries paid to employees in this industry are quite low when compared with other salaries. A comparison in this Tariff Board report on woven shirts reveals that in 1960 the average wage per week in this industry was $23.65, that by 1965 the wage had risen to $26.55 and that in April 1971 the average wage was $38.10. This industry employs machinists at piecework rates which, under the Clothing Trades Award, are set at a rate which will allow earnings at least 10 per cent above the award rate. But at the time of the public hearing average earnings were generally about $40 a week. It is in this industry that much of the traditional dislike of sweating has taken place. Evidently, during this inquiry, no attention was drawn to this practice. One of the witnesses said that in his section of the industry the equivalent of award rates were paid to unskilled migrant labour who required 3 or 4 weeks training. After training these employees were put on piecework rates which provide greater incentive. The recommendations in the short term were for protection of 40 per cent under the general rate and 20 per cent under the preferential rate, plus $1.50 per dozen in respect of Austraiian made woven shirts falling within item 61.03. It was recommended also that imports from New Zealand should be duty free. I suppose that the free trade agreement with New Zealand gives that country the right to compete with our manufacturers on our markets. There was no recommendation for an alteration to this tariff. 
Another industry which has been examined by the Tariff Board is one which is of particular interest to Tasmanians. 1 refer to the trout industry. I commend the Tariff Board for ils thorough inquiry into this new industry and for the recommendations that it made. I express the hope that the protection afforded this industry will be required as a temporary measure only and that the growing efficiency in the development of this new and exciting industry in Tasmania will make further assistance unnecessary. Very few people in Australia are engaged in the commercial raising of trout in farms. The industry raises trout primarily for fish for the table, but there is a growing trade in supplying fish eggs for breeders in other parts of the world, particularly in the United States of America. A firm started up by a  Mr Purves,  an Englishman with whom I made contact quite early in the piece, began in Tasmania and obtained a licence to farm trout commercially at Bridport, which is in the north east of Tasmania and where there is access to both fresh water and salt water. Although the firm was using fresh water at the time of the inquiry it is now achieving encouraging results from the use of salt water farming. 
This industry is new in Australia and much research into the industry is being conducted into the industry at Bridport. One of the biggest breakthroughs has been in the development of a new Swedish technique of making a fish food which not only enables the trout to thrive but also develops them more quickly, yielding a higher ratio of fish per lb of feed than other feed previously used. It is expected that the annual capacity of the industry will be in excess of 150,000 lb of trout in frozen and unfrozen form and it is stated that its present capacity is about  100,000 lb  a year. There is a growing demand for this fish in Australia and not only is the industry able to compete with the .imported product in taste, quality and packaging but also it provides encouragement and help in expanding a Tasmanian industry. The Tariff Board recommended a protection of 10c per lb. In my view this, protection is warranted and will help in the basic idea of establishing a viable Australian industry. 
I intended to make some comment on a number of Tariff Board reports. I refer briefly to chain manufacture in Australia. This is a very big and important industry associated with the manufacture of engine boilers and power units. This is particularly important in this new era in which there is such demand for power because of the discovery of gas and crude oil off the Australian shore. There is an interdependability in Australia between the manufacture of boilers and power units and the use of our own natural products, just as there is between our growing mining and metallurgical machinery production and our growing mining industry. These all have a great impact on our economy. 
Generally speaking, I believe that the Tariff Board is doing the best job it can do within its present circumscribed field. But in my view the Board should be expanded so that it can perform a much greater service to this nation by making a closer review and examination of the whole field of tariffs. There must be . thousands of commodities that have never been refererred to the Tariff Board. All those commodities can have their impact on the inflation that is occurring and the increasing costs of production which are such a worry today. It comes back again to Government policy. The Tariff Board can only do what it can do within the confines of Government policy. 
As I see it, the whole of our economy is sick, and it is a deep seated sicknes which stems not just from Tariff Board reports but from the period when the Government believed that a policy of laissez-faire could succeed; that we just had to open the gates to free enterprise and prices and demand would level out. All these old. worn out theories have proved to be not only unsuccessful but disastrous in that in a country with vast natural resources and the capacity to export we have priced ourselves out of our potential markets. With the realignment of world markets through the European Common Market, the European Free Trade Area and the barriers in the United States and so many other areas, we find it difficult to compete because of our high costs of production. 
I believe that this stems from a lack of proper economic planning and a lack of sufficiently sound guidelines for the economy. Only in the last few days the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  has been speaking of changing the guidelines that were laid down by his predecessor with regard to selling more of the farm - not the little bit of the farm to which  Sir John  McEwen referred, but the whole farm. Whole areas of the Australian economy affecting its very vitals, such as our means of transport and the mass media, are being allowed to come under foreign ownership. Foreign owners are being encouraged to come in because their money has been manipulated so that, it is of more value now than it was before the devaluation of our currency. This is the result of Government policy. 
The luck that the Government had in the discovery of our natural resources and being able to sell out the farmers is running out. This has created grave distortions in the economy, and it is far beyond the capacity of the Tariff Board to adjust them and at the same time to keep the people in full employment and to keep the economy stable. Flowing out of this we see a cynicism and an opportunism displayed by people in business and industry. In addition, this has created in members of the work force a feeling that the value of their money, their savings, their insurance and their superannuation is being diminished by the stealthy, back door method of inflation. To me, this is immoral and dishonest and also encourages and accelerates the cynicism that is abroad. There are always appeals for wage restraints and attempts to blame the Australian workers as the cause of our economic problems. When we investigate other sections of the community and see that prices can be increased and that inflation has a snowballing effect, the claim that the workers are the cause of the problem sounds pretty hollow. 
Rather than go into any great detail on the individual references on which the 
Tariff Board has reported, I would like to reiterate the importance that we must attach to the Board not only at the present time but also in the future. The Board can become one of the most important factors in stabilising and widening the whole economy. In order to do this it should be properly staffed and should have the full confidence of the Government in its capacity to inquire into industries and to present to the Parliament quickly reports on wheher protection should be applied or withdrawn. In this way the Board can play a most valuable part in making this country what it should be. It should be a most prosperous country. With the technological aids that are available to us today, we should be able to provide a high and rising standard of living for our own people and also be able to go out into the international markets and gain our full share of them. 
In conclusion let me say that these reports are comprehensive. They cover a very wide range of economic activity in this country. Perhaps they deserve a more thorough examination than they will receive in this chamber. It is a great pity that more time is not given to the examination of these reports by honourable senators. But we know that the amendments that are contained in this legislation have to be validated. Therefore, we on this side of the chamber do not oppose the Bill. I trust that the few comments I have made about the delay in the presentation of reports will be examined and that, as a result of the increased recognition of the work of the Tariff Board, it will be given sufficient staff, the staff will be upgraded sufficiently and it will have sufficient permanent technical staff to enable it to do its research rapidly and to make it a really vital part of the economic management of this country. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. As Press reports state that the Government may abandon some of the guidelines on foreign investment laid down by the former Prime Minister,  Mr Gorton,  in 1969 and in view of the hints made by the Prime Minister about the Government's view to foreign investment guidelines, will the Leader of the Government expand upon this theme and explain to the Senate the Government's attitude towards foreign investment? Can the Leader of the Government say when a Treasury White Paper on foreign investment will be completed and presented to the Senate? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable The  President  and members  of  the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That the Australian Education Council's report on the needs of government education services has established serious deficiencies in education, the most important areas being a. severe shortage of teachers, inadequate accommodation, and, as a result, oversized classes. 
That extra Federal finance is urgently requiredto save the government school system. 
That while the needs of the government schools are being neglected, large amounts, of public money are being given, in various and numerous grants, to private schools. 
Your petitioners must humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to make emergency Federal finance available to the States for State school education, and divert the large sums of public money being spent on private schools, to the government school system for which the Government is specifically responsible: 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
 Is the AttorneyGeneral aware of a recent poll indicating that only 5 per cent of Australians believe that young men who refuse to register for national service should be gaoled? Does the Commonwealth Constitution provide for the States to accommodate prisioners gaoled under a Commonwealth law that is distasteful and unpopular in the State, where the State Government is required to detain the prisoners on behalf of the Commonwealth? 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General. This morning, on the Australian Broadcasting Commission programme 'A.M.' reference was made to arrangements which are well under way for a national conference on the Commonwealth Constitution. I ask the Attorney-General: Will he inform the Senate whether any progress is being made by his Department or himself in preparing a paper for the forthcoming conference on the role of the Federal Government? 
 Opposition will oppose this amendment. The wording should be emphasised. It says in part:   . . the Senate is of the opinion that the Commonwealth grants to independent school students should be at least50 per cent of the average cost to the State of a student at a government school whether primary or secondary and this be regarded as a step to eventual equality. 
I wish to refer to the position that exists in Tasmania at the present time. Over the last few years we have seen an ever increasing amount of public money being diverted to private schools independent of public control. Most of this money has been provided by the Commonwealth Treasury. At the same time we have heard this continual plea for the 'rights and freedoms of parental choice' and charges of educational injustice. 
When we examine the actual figures for Tasmania we find that in August  1970  there were  77.447  pupils in government schools, representing  84.4  per cent of the total, and  14,399  pupils in non-government schools, representing  15.6  per cent ofthe total. Of the library grant,  $216,200.  or  74.3  per cent of the total, went to government schools and  $74,700,  or  25.7  per cent, went to non-government schools. Of the science grant,  $235,500.  or  57.6  per cent, went to governmet schools and  $173,600,  or  42.4  per cent, went to nongovernment schools. Of the secondary scholarships,  202,  at  $250  each, or  51.4  per cent of the total amount, went to government schools and  119,  at  $400  each, or  48.6  per cent of the total amount, went to non-government schools. Of the per capita grant, none went to government schools and  $560,330  went to non-government schools. So,  100  per cent of the per capita grant went to non-government schools. 
Plus the tax reimbursement that went to the nongovernment schools, or to the parents of pupils at non-government schools. 
These are figures that have been taken out of official records. 
The document from which I am reading is called 'The DLP and Education in Australia'. 
It was put out by the Movement for the Defence of Government Schools, or the DOGS. 
That is right. What is wrong with quoting the DOGS? They are involved- 
It is an opinion that I am expressing, and I have every right to express it. 
I offer my apologies,  Mr President.  Mr Bethune's name was mentioned. If I recall correctly,  Mr Maisey,  a Country Party member from Western Australia, stated in his speech on the Budget last year that the odds were 100 to 1 on that  Mr Bethune's  Government in Tasmania would fall mainly because of his attitude towards the government and nongovernment schools there. The increased grants for education announced by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  comprised $1.4m as a capital grant to the State system and additional per capita grants to non-State schools amounting to $220,000 per annum. So we see that the 50 per cent mentioned in the amendment is more than matched already. I think members of the 
Democratic Labor Party have been complaining a little too much and have exceeded their aims. 
If we analyse this matter a little more we see that there is a more or less continual sop to the DLP from which pressure is being exerted on the Government all the time and which is virtually keeping the Government in power with its preferences. By asking for 50 per cent, members of the DLP have shown quite clearly that they are not equipped with the relevant information, which shows that in the State of Tasmania the non-government schools are already receiving much more than the 50 per cent. The position is becoming even worse. By June 1973 the grant that has been made to Tasmania for capital works will have petered out; whereas the amount of $220,000 per annum that goes to the non-government schools will continue. By 1974 the amount will be $440,000 and by 1980 the total additional grants will have reached $1,760,000 - and that is for 15.6 per cent of the child population of Tasmania. So the children in the nongovernment schools are not progressing too badly. The $560,000 which already is being provided annually as a per capita grant to schools in the non-state sector before any amount is made available in pursuance of the announcement of 10th September is additional to the other amounts I have mentioned. 
The result of all this is that the injustice is on the government school students and on the parents who send their children to government schools. The charges which are required to be met by children attending State schools at the beginning of every term are equal in some respects to the amounts paid each quarter for children attending non-government schools. Often a child attending a government school will have to find $35 to $40 for books and the like. The situation has developed where the State school children are being treated as second class citizens. This remark would apply to 84 per cent of these children in Tasmania. I suggest that the. Democratic Labor Party has just about reached the end of its tether so far as sympathy is concerned. It is asking for 50 per cent of the funds when already independent schools in Tasmania are receiving that proportion of the funds available. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be added  (Senator McManus' amendment)  be added. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Air. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to newspaper reports that 4 Royal Australian Air Force officers and one civilian employed by the Air Force have mysteriously died from unnatural causes - by strangling and shooting - since December of last year and that these men were all involved in top secret preparation of the Fill aircraft in the United States of America? Has his attention been drawn to reports that courts-martial have resulted from the RAAF inquiry into allegations of bastardisation involving apprentice Jacob at the Laverton RAAF Base? In view of these disturbing allegations, will the Minister make a full statement on these reports and table the full report made by the RAAF court of inquiry at Laverton, as well as the results of the courts martial which reportedly have followed that inquiry? 
I thank you  Mr worthy President.  My question is directed to the Minister for Air. He will remember that I raised a matter relating to the practices at the Royal Australian Air Force Radio Apprentices School at Laverton. He advised the Senate that there had been a court martial which imposed penalties on several second-year apprentices. To clear up the matter I ask the Minister: What measures have been taken to prevent a repetition of such practices? Did the RAAF Command promulgate instructions to all training and other establishments re-stating that severe disciplinary action would be taken in respect of any such conduct in the RAAF? What other measures have been taken to improve the standard of living-in apprentices at the Laverton school? Will the Minister agree that Aircraftsman Apprentice Jacob was justified in objecting to the conduct of the secondyear apprentices at the Laverton school and bringing about this obviously necessary shake-up in supervision of standards of conduct? 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General. As the Government has announced that it will take no action against the illegal activities of the Rhodesian Information Centre and that it will change the law to suit the Rhodesians, can the Attorney-General indicate what other areas of the law he intends to change to suit the wishes of the people opposing those sections of the law? If it is deemed desirable to support Rhodesia against the United Nations, would it not be reasonable to amend the National Service Act so that thousands of young men who object to this law can have their wishes met by a government which apparently is ready to amend and apply the law to suit its beliefs and attitudes? 
in view of the fact that it is almost 10.30 p.m. I ask for leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate interrupted. 
Has the attention of the Leader of the Government in the Senate been drawn to a resolution passed unanimously at the annual meeting of the Victorian Country Party last Friday, namely, that Liberals must show themselves to be big enough to find somebody to lead the coalition to success and that  Mr Anthony  is the only man to hold the qualifications of Prime Minister? In view  of this resolution, has any serious consideration been given to the implications of this revolt against the coalition leadership taking the form of a censure motion against the Prime Minister by the Country Party led by  Senator Webster? 
 I should like to be personally associated with this condolence motion to the late Charles Adcock Lamp who sat in the Senate from 1937 to L950. For three of those years he was a colleague of mine while we were in government and in a majority in the Senate. Charles Lamp was a man of great simplicity and humility. He started his life on the west coast of Tasmania and was employed in the Tasmanian Government Railways as a blacksmith. He had a great interest in his fellow men in union affairs being always a staunch unionist. He was a man who tried to help his fellow unionists and a man who was always forthright in putting up a genuine case for justice for his fellow workers. At the time that he was working with the railways he was the honorary secretary of the Tasmanian branch of the Australian Labor Party. He carried out the duties of that office with great credit and was responsible for building the Party to a stage where it could have a proper organisation and a paid staff. He was a life member of the Australian Labor Party, Tasmanian branch, and was very highly respected by all its members, being a very regular attender al our conferences where bis wisdom, experience and good judgment were constantly sought. 
He was a keen sportsman who took a wide interest in sporting events. But above all, he was a great lover of music. 1 should say that he had one of the finest collections of recorded classical music of any person I know. He would delight in having his leisure hours filled with beautiful music as a background to his life. He was a most generous and kindly man. His main mission in life was to try to make the world a better place than it was when he came to it. As has already been mentioned, he served his country well in war and in peace. This nation, and particularly Tasmania, will be much poorer for his passing. To his wife, May, to bis son, Charles, and his daughter, Elsie, I extend my very deepest sympathy in their very great loss. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Australian Education Council's report on the needs of government education services has established serious deficiencies in education, the most important areas being a severe shortage of teachers, inadequate accommodation, and, as a result, oversized classes. 
That extra Federal finance is urgently required to save the government school system. 
That while the needs of the government schools are being neglected, large amounts of public money are being given, in various and numerous grants, to private schools. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to make emergency Federal finance available to the States for Stale school education, and divert the large sums of public money being spent on private schools, to the government school system for which the government is specifically responsible. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is addressed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. 1 assume he is aware thai the United Suites Senate Foreign Relations Committee has voicd 9 to 1 in favour of cutting off all funds for the Indo-Ch-ina war by the end of this year, and thai if this is approved by Congress it will compel  President  Nixon to get out of Vietnam before then. Has the Leader of the Government a statement to make to the Senate on what measures the Australian Government proposes to take to meet such an eventuality, thus helping to relieve the conscience prevailing among so many Australian people who now realise the futility of our involvement? 
The honourable senator's question is linked with our relations with the United Stales of America, a country with which we have alliances - we have had close links with it throughout our history - and he suggests thai because of some resolution carried in a parliamentary committee in America I should make a statement of Government policy. Under any head of argument his question is out of order. It seeks information on a question of policy, il seeks from a Minister at question time a judgment on our relations with an ally and a friendly nation, and therefore 1 suggest that no answer is really required from me. 
The Bill before the Senate relates to the settlement of matters arising out of employment in the Commonwealth Public Service. The Minister for Health  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  in his second reading speech said that the purpose of the Bill is to make provisions in a similar manner to the provisions contained in section 28 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act for the Public Service arbitration tribunal to deal with what are termed 'industrial situations'. An industrial situation has a very wide definition. It is quite obvious that the basic effect of this Bill is to incorporate in the Public Service Arbitration Act a provision which is essentially similar to section 28 of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act; that is, it introduces into the system Public Service arbitration conferences and compulsory conferences as provided for in the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. It gives the Public Service Arbitrator far-reaching powers to order a return to work, the lifting of bans, the cessation of regulation strikes, and so on. So the term 'industrial situation' is exceedingly wide. 

 Senator Bishop pointed out that this legislation can only lead to further discontent. He said that it will not settle those disputes or, as they are termed in the Bill, 'industrial situations'; it will enlarge the areas and measure of discontent to encompass wider section of the Commonwealth Public Service.  Senator Bishop  said also: 
I believe that the Government's actions in seeking to strengthen this legislation is in accordance with its policy of imposing further restrictions on the ability of trade unions in Australia to bargain with employers for an improvement in working conditions. 
The position is that fines of $1,000 can be imposed on organisations and individuals, and this Bill is but a first step in the introduction of heavier penalties against Public Service unions, organisations and individuals. It is considered by members of the Public Service that these penalties are intimidatory. The Government, of course, is alarmed at the level of militancy in the Public Service. This measure is designed as a club to be 'used' in the hands of the Government. With this legislation it hopes to smash down the just struggles of public servants who are behind in their economic and job demands. I assure the Senate and the Government that public servants are not in the mood to be intimidated. This type of legislation cannot alter the fundamental fact that public servants are falling behind economically. This is a simple reality that has led to widespread industrial action in the Public Service over recent years. 
In these actions public servants have learnt one lesson, namely, that united they are a very powerful force and divided they fall. Their industrial actions have demonstrated that if they are united they have power. If they stop working the business of the country comes to a halt. It is this fact that terrifies the Government and, so it hopes to prevent the public servants from demonstrating their strength. It has only one method of doing this, by putting force onto the statute books. Fines and terms of imprisonment are examples of the type of force which is directed against the working people by the State. In whose interests is this force used? As everybody knows, the Government represents big business and the Public Service is run to suit the interests of big business. Of course, the thing is that when these situations arise the big business representatives say to the Government: 'Something must be done to stop this'. On the other hand, the tycoons of business can sell out or plunder the country; they can raise prices and swindle the people; but the ordinary working man who seeks the best price for the only thing he has to sell - his capacity to work, his labour - is treated as a criminal if he does anything about it. 
But the Government will find that these people are not criminals and it will find also that these proposed amendments to the Act are an insult to public servants. They are one-sided penalties. What sort of justice is this? The one-sided nature of the penalties can be illustrated by pointing out that the common form of bans clause inserted into awards under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act contains coercive measures. The provisions of sections 109 and 111 of the Act enforce bans clauses. At least in theory the system of coercion is visited equally on organisations of employers - in some cases individual employers - on the one hand and, on the other hand, organisations of employees and, in some cases, individuals. But in reality the system operates basically to penalise trade unions. The amendment projected by the Bill really can only operate one way, and that is against the unions and their members and public servants generally. The penalty imposed under proposed new section 12 for failure to attend a compulsory conference - $1,000 - cannot be imposed on the Commonwealth or any branch of the Public Service. There is thus ft distinction between the Conciliation and Arbitration Act and this measure in that this Bill provides for a totally one sided penalty. 
The Government should be thoroughly alarmed at the disarray of the economy. We have inflation and increasing costs. We heard today about a 7.8 per cent increase in the cost of living. People on superannuation are being robbed of their equity in their superannuation benefits. Price fixing and restrictive trade practices continue and the Government is dilly-dallying about introducing legislation to protect the ordinary people against these things. Foreign investors, who toil not neither do they spin, are skimming the cream of profits. In turn all these things are creating disillusionment and militancy among public servants and other sections of the industrial work force of Australia. 
As 1 said before, this Bill is the thin edge of the wedge. It will be a club in the hands of the Government and with it the Government will try to smash down the just struggles of public servants who seek economic justice and improvements in their working conditions. This measure has been condemned by every public service and post office union throughout the Western world as being contrary to the United Nations charter on human rights and as being a blatant contravention of the International Labour Organisation conventions dealing with trade union rights. It was condemned unanimously by a special conference of federal unions convened by the Australian Council of Trade Unions in Sydney on 12th April this year. That was a meeting of unions of various political persuasions, including the Democratic Labor Party. Even the DLP union representatives supported the motion at the conference, which was carried unanimously, and called on every senator to oppose the Bill. 
13071/72-  S.-  (481 
That is correct. Senators Gair and Little are very conspicuous by their absence at the moment, after having criticised other honourable senators. During the debate on this measure they said that they were in favour of the Government's action in introducing it. My colleague  Senator Bishop  and other honourable senators have pointed out that this Bill is totally one sided. The Government cannot fine itself; nor can it penalise any branch of the public service. At least under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, in theory, employers in private industry can be fined. But that is not the case in this Bill. This measure has been condemned by even the Spanish trade unions as being fascist. It can only alienate the goodwill of over 250,000 public servants in this country. It has been described in the daily Press as 'get tough' legislation against the unions but we have not heard anything about the introduction of legislation aimed at getting tough against Broken Hill Pty Company Ltd and other big combines in this country which can freely fix their rates of profit without fear of similar legislation being directed against them. 
This measure contains the seeds of widespread discontent. The Government should be alarmed at the reason for this militancy in the public service. It is due to its lack of control over the inflationary trends in Australia. Despite all the makeshift measures introduced by the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden),  the pie crust promises made by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  and Government members generally, inflation still continues. This disunity and discontent is being created in the public service because of the discrepancy between salary rates and the growing cost of living. This Government should realise the work done for it by the loyal band of public servants in this country. This Bill is the thin edge of the wedge and its aim is to get revenge against the postal workers but it can be expanded to cover the whole length and breadth of the public service. 
For those reasons,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  we of the Opposition believe that this legislation is unnecessary. The way to deal with these situations has been proved in the past. Conciliation and other methods that are available within the public service have served the nation well. 
Only discontent can arise from the passage of this measure. We oppose this type of legislation and we believe that the Government will have cause to regret putting it on the statute book. Rather than bring peace to industry it will tend to stir up unnecessary trouble. 
In directing my question to the Minister for Health I draw his attention to a statement made by United States sources that the radiation risk from mobile chest X-ray units is causing growing concern in the United States. The American College of Radiology has joined other health agencies calling for an end to the use of these units. As the campaign against tuberculosis in this country has been so successful because of the use of mobile chest X-ray units, will the Minister have medical scientists carry out an investigation into alternative methods of chest examination, such as skin tests, and furnish a report with the object of minimising radiation risks from that source in this country? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
In view of the proposal for the Australian Government to conduct naval exercises with Indonesia (a) will the Minister urgently take up with the Indonesian Government the grave allegations in an article in 'The Review' of19th February 1972 which details some of the torture and ill-treatment meted out to political prisoners in Indonesia, and (b) will the Minister make every endeavour to ensure that our Indonesian friends do not continue to lay themselves open to charges thatthey are perpetrating totalitarian type treatment of people whose main crime appears to be that they were or are opposed to the present regime. 
No doubt the Leader of the Government in the Senate is aware of the result of last Saturday's State election for the Tasmanian House of Assembly at which the Australian Labor Party won a handsome majority in every electorate, and also that the Leader of the Liberal Party resigned his leadership. 
First, I remind  Senator McManus  that the 'Willesee Show' as he referred to it, is run by the Packer Press. I ask  Senator McManus  whether he has applied to the Packer family to go on its show in order to put his case? 
That is very good reasoning. The revelations made to the Senate tonight have been startling. I was surprised at the sensitivity of the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  who is usually a most placid and reasonable man. I was surprised that he should respond so actively to what has been put forward tonight. It was virtually the flushing out of traitors of democracy. The big question involved here is this: Everyone is wondering whether the 
Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  should be in the Government or in the Australian Democratic Labor Party, lt must be of great concern to Government members to know that they have in their ranks a person who is representative of those with whom we had so much trouble over the years, that is, infiltrators representing foreign and objectionable interests in their Party. My hope is that the Government will realise what we have had to go through during the years when we had such infiltrators in our ranks. However, the Government will learn in time to deal with them.  Senator Greenwood  objected when  Senator Murphy  sought leave of the Senate to table the document that has been referred to tonight. 1 wish to make some reference to the document which is entitled National U'. A tittle cartoon appears in the corner of the front page of this document. A little character carrying a box labelled Dynamite' is saying: 'It won't be long now folks!' The headline is: 'Federal Minister betrays Party. Secret national group.' The document reads: 
Federal Housing Minister Kevin Cairns has compromised himself, the Federal Government and the Liberal Party. Documents which are reproduced in this edition of National U reveal that  Mr Cairns  is a member of an extreme rightwing nal iona! organisation known as Peace with Freedom. Other members of the organisation include  Mr Bob  Santamaria,  Mr Peter  Coleman (M.L.A.),  Mr Peter  Samuel (a Canberra journalist),  Mr Peter  Kelly (former Press Secretary to the Prime Minister), Professor James McAuley of Tasmania University,  Dr Frank  Knopfelmacher of Melbourne University, Professors David Armstrong and Peter Lawrence of Sydney University, ami Professor Owen Harris of New South Wales University. This adult section of the organisation, which has functioned secretly for many years, is closely tied to the DLP. How does this compromise Cairns? 
That is a reference to the Minister for Housing.  Mr Kevin  Cairns. The document continues: 
The last two editions of National U have revealed the existence of an organisation known as Peace with Freedom, ft became apparent that this group was co-ordinating a systematic attack on student governing bodies throughout Australia. lt was also evident that the activities of this group were both highly secretive and deceptive. 
However, information has since been received which clearly illustrates that the extent of Peace with Freedom's activities and organisation range from the highest office in the land through a tightly knit organisation of politicians, academics, intellectuals, and journalists  in  all the Australian Stales. 
For the past fortnight National U staff have investigated the membership, financing, and organisation of Peace with Freedom. Research resulting from documents obtained, listing agendas and activities of the group; interviews wilh known members and statements from those involved in its periphery are printed below. Peace with Freedom, by its members' own admission, has campaigned against the Government to which Cairns belongs. 

 Mr Cairns is the Minister for Housing. It goes on: 
The documents reveal that in the  1969  Federal elections the group worked to reduce the Government's majority to six or seven seats, and to maxbise the DLP vote. 
In addition, the group campaigned for a 'new policy approach' by the recently elected Government. 
The election of John Gorton as Prime Minister, with the associated defence policies, was an anathema to PWF's objectives. It is significant that at this time Kevin Cairns publicly announced his refusal to serve under Gorton as Deputy Government Whip. By the time of the PWF meeting of March 1970, the group was actively working for the removal of John Gorton from the Prime Ministership (Documents, p.  4).  Are these activities consistent with the Ministerial position Cairns holds in the Liberal Party? 
The organisation has run campaigns to pressure the Government into extremist positions. 
I am amazed at the sensitivity of honourable senators opposite and DLP senators to this matter. I am amazed at the eagerness of DLP senators to leap to the defence of a Government Minister. 
I am glad to note a little activity by Government Ministers because previously they were silent. What sort of over-reaction is this? After all, it is a newspaper report. The Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  asked for leave to table the newspaper. It is a simple document which contains references to all these people who are supposed to be so objectionable. It was only to be tabled, not incorporated in Hansard, but the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood),  wilh his great sense of justice- 
Why is everybody so vocal,  Mr President? 
The Government says that it is not associated with Peace with Freedom. The DLP, of course- 
 Senator McManus  - that is something tough. You are a tough operator. Would you disclaim that you have anything to do with the Peace with Freedom movement? 
But Bob Santamaria, your spiritual leader, has a lot to do with it. 
You talk about sex at the university. That is your strong point. You are a great sex man. This reaction is of great interest to us all. This document was to have been tabled but permission was not granted. I would like to continue to quote from it. 
May I move that the document be tabled? 
I ask for leave to table the document. 
I insist that I may quote from copious newspaper reports. 
With a certain amount of reluctance,  Sir, I  bow to your ruling. 
1 hope you will permit me to exercise my rights to quote from another document. It states that the main objectives of political action during 1969 by this organisation were quite reactionary. It claimed that in order to implement its policy, 5 objectives were desirable in the October federal election. They were as follows: 
the prevention of an ALP victory which would have destroyed national service and forward defence policy and the presence in Vietnam; 
reduction of the Governments majority to a Still comfortable six to seven seats to ensure that the Government could not claim any popular mandate for its defence or Russian policies; (c) the requisite tightness of the DLP preferences to ensure the prevention of ALP policy and the reduction of the Government's majority. 
I shall proceed: 
The retention of, or, if possible, increase in, the DLP's primary vote; (e) the substitution of a new policy approach by a new Liberal Government. 
Of course, we know what happened to the past Prime Minister  Mr Gorton. 
Four of these objectives have been achieved. The single negative factor was the 1.1 per cent decline in the DLP vote.  1 might mention that the DLP was not even game enough to show its ugly, snakelike head in Tasmania, because it knew it would have been cut off. 
The major effects of this were: 
Substitution of Fraser policy for Freeth.Fairhall policy; its limits, (b) Instructions to departments, (c) Theoretical acceptance of need to reintroduce Communist issue; only one ALP fears. 
These arc the arrows that come down. Communist issues have to be reintroduced. The major problems of the Federal Government were shown as: 
Cl) Total loss of morale and confidence in leadership, compounded by by-elections; (2) capitulation or weaknesses - (i) 'Jeparit'; (ii) mutiny resolution; (iii) Burchett, (iv) fear of facing Parliament.  1 think 1 have indicated that a member of this quasi-political group is acting in the worst interests of democratic government by using- 
Thank you for your ruling.  Mr President.  ! am not referring to a member in another place; I atn referring to  Mr Bob  Santamaria who is manipulating the puppets in this puppet show. 1 would like to give this warning to the Government and to the Parliament: This is a very serious matter, and we should apply ourselves to the significance of this figure who has been behind the scenes for such a number of years. Although the people he represents ate being discredited in the electorate, they still exercise a very powerful influence inside the Parliament. I think that they should be exposed for what they are. Their representatives in the Senate and their ersatz representative in the Liberal Party and in the Cabinet should be exposed completely. 
 I feel that the situation has been developed completely. We are alerting our Parliament to affairs and situations that should be looked at in a very serious way. This Government, this Parliament and this country are under challenge by people who are trying to manipulate and dominate the democratic process, by numbers, by threats and by other undesirable means. Having raised this subject, I hope that the people who occupy seats in the Parliament will realise that the electors outside this Parliament are aware of this insidious, pernicious influence that is in our midst. It is the equivalent of the Quislings, the equivalent of the fifth column. 
I am speaking about Santamaria; he is not a member of Parliament. What honourable senator is prepared to take a point of order about Santamaria? He is not a member of Parliament. Having said that,  Mr President,  I shall relieve you of the pressure by resuming my seat. 
That the papers referred to by  Senator O'Byrne  be tabled. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines andthe Arts, upon notice: 
Did Professor S tanner, a senior member of the Council of Aboriginal Affairs, tell the Senate Standing Committee on Social Environment on 25th February 1972 of the vital place held by land in Aboriginal tradition and culture saying one cannot exaggerate the importance, intimacy and closeness of this  tie  between the Aboriginal communities and their land'; if so, is the Minister in conflict with him? 
How can Professor Stanner's statement be reconciled with that of the Minister, who said that the traditional Aboriginal relationship of land does not fit in with the Australian system of freehold land? 
Is Professor Stanner's view a correct one and the Minister's wrong, or  is  this a further attempt by the Government to confuse the issue of land rights for Aborigines and to camouflage the Government's decision not to give them those land rights? 
Will the AttorneyGeneral agree that it is more urgent to prevent possible loss of life through bomb explosions and other Ustashi violence than to arrest young men who have the courage of their convictions? Will the Minister direct his investigatory apparatus to the tracking down of the source of supply of explosives, fuses and so on known to be used by Ustashi terrorists in this country? 
lt is of great interest to see this interim report of the Standing Committee on Industry and Trade on the proposed takeover of Ansett Transport Industries Ltd by Thomas Nationwide Transport Ltd. Of course I look on this proposed takeover as being a normal procedure in this day and age where the bigger fish eat the smaller fish. This is the sort of attitude of business today. After all, if we have a look at this doyen of Australia on whom we are trying to adjudicate -  Sir Reginald  Ansett - we find that he has done a fair share of the same type of thing himself. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Withers)  - Order! I suggest that the honourable senator come back to the motion. We might proceed a little more rapidly. 
If I might just make my own preliminary remarks- 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT - Order! Let us stay with the motion. 
1 am on the motion. I think that I should be given as much tolerance by the Chair as was given to other speakers. I say that the Victorian Government has taken an attitude in relation to this matter while a Senate standing committee was investigating it. The Victorian Government has taken action which has cut across the activities of the Senate. 1 have seen this type of thing happen before. It happened with the Senate Select Committee on Offshore Petroleum Resources.  Sir Henry  Bolte had already sold out the Victorian and Australian interests in Bass Strait oil to overseas interests without one little thought about what happens to Australian equity in these things.  Mr Thomas  of Thomas Nationwide Transport Ltd has conducted a business with great credit to himself and his organisation. He started off, as did  Sir Reginald  Ansett, as a truck driver. He came through the same processes. This is the big matching of intellects, capacity and ability to survive in the modern day economic world. As a large and successful progressive organisation, TNT operates within the rules of our capitalist system in an honourable way. I would like to stress that. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT  - Order! Would the honourable senator please come back to  Senator Murphy's  motion? 
I am speaking to the motion. I place on record that there should be no recriminations against TNT. This dramatic alteration referred to in the interim report of the Standing Committee on Industry and Trade should not leave any thought in the minds of Australians that Thomas Nationwide Transport Ltd has done anything wrong. They are honourable people. Their opponents have had Commonwealth Government assistance in relation to this investigation. I think that this Committee should continue its investigations after the Victorian intervention has concluded. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Does the Government intend to establish a full diplomatic post in Hong Kong as a prelude to normalising relations with the People's Republic of China; if so, is the Minister aware that the Department of Foreign Affairs has in its employ only one fully-trained Chinese specialist and has decided to dispense with Chinese speaking staff in its China section. 

 Senator WRIGHT - The Minister for Foreign Affairs has furnished the following reply: 
I would refer the  Senator to  the Prime Minister's reply; to a question from  Mr Whitlam  in another place on 1st March. 
It is not clear what is meant by 'fully trained Chinese specialists'. However, the Department of Foreign Affairs has in its employ a number of officers with varying degrees of expertise in the Chinese language and in Chinese affairs generally. The Department has not decided to dispense with Chinese speaking staff in the section dealing with China; the present China Desk officer has a fluent knowledge of the Chinese language. 
Has the Leader of. the Government in the Senate knowledge of the use of United States manufactured 15,000 lb bombs in Vietnam, each bomb reputed to be able to pulverise city areas of 1 square mile and to be equal in power to the atomic bomb dropped on Hiroshima? Has he knowledge of the use of anti-personnel plastic needles in bombs which cannot be traced in the human body by X-ray and which cause a slow, lingering death to the persons affected? If he has such knowledge would he propose to the Minister for Foreign Affairs that the Minister take action, through the appropriate United Nations body, to have these barbarous weapons, along with the atomic bomb, banned? 
I join my colleagues on this side of the Senate in expressing disappointment that the report, of the Senate Select Committee on Off-shore Petroleum Resources, which deliberated for 2 to 3 years, should receive such scant recognition by the Senate only a few weeks prior to the winter recess, with a busy Budget session ahead and with an election in November. The report is not being dealt with as it should be. If any phase of the Menzies, Holt, McEwen, Gorton, McMahon era of government were to be referred to by historians and by coming generations, it would be the great sell-out of the priceless Australian assets to overseas investors and exploiters. In the Senate yesterday we had a debate on take-overs. The matter of the take-over of Australian companies has been debated widely during the past few weeks. In no industry would a take-over be as effective as it has been in the Australian off-shore oil industry. It is significant that all the old names of the international oil companies - companies which have been able to change the leadership of many nations, companies which have established small kingdoms, principalities and sheikdoms over the past 50-odd years in the Middle East and companies which have exercised great power in war and in peace - feature on the list of those who now own or have leases of huge tracts of off-shore Australia. 
In many ways the report illustrates how the legislation was framed as a compromise between the Commonwealth and the States to suit this type of exploitation by overseas interests with vast accumulations of capital. Recently, the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  spoke of the possibility of Australian investment in Asian countries to assist the development of industries there. How ridiculous this must sound to the ordinary person in the street in Australia. Here we are allowing our assets to be sold, as fast as their sale can possibly be organised under the various company laws and through the stock exchanges, to overseas companies supposedly because capital is not available in Australia to finance the development of our assets. Yet, the Prime Minister recommends that Australian investors direct their money to Asian countries. 
It is quite easy to see the reason for this recommendation. The idea of the investment of capital is to make the greatest profit from the smallest outlay. In Australia over a period of years the trade union movement with its political wing, the Labor parties in the various States, and the arbitration courts and the like have protected the interests of the working man to the degree that his standard of living has been partly increased relative to the improving production rate of the country. This has reduced the margin for exploitation available to those who control our industries. But, in keeping with the spirit of capitalism, the Prime Minister says to some of our investors: 'Invest your money in Asian countries. The labour is cheap. The unemployment rate is high. The cost of raw materials is low. So your investment will give you a higher margin of profit'. Obviously this is the philosophy of the Federal Government. It has been extended, in my view, to the off-shore petroleum resources legislation in which the proposition was put to the Australian people that entry into the vast and wealthy off-shore oil industry was beyond the capacity of all except one Australian company. 
Reference has been made tonight to the discovery of the Bass Strait oil fields. We heard recently that the royalties that are accruing to  Mr Weeks,  the adviser to BHP, are such that he is now receiving $6.5m a year in royalties from the Bass Strait oil fields. We hear also that he is to float a company in Australia so that, over a period, investors in that company can obtain the proceeds of the royalties that are payable to  Mr Weeks.  In turn, the company can pay ready cash to  Mr Weeks  to distribute amongst his family or in whichever way he wishes. This is an indication of the general basis on which our off-shore oil industry has developed. 
The fact is that BHP was considered to be the only industrial organisation that could finance off-shore oil exploration. The options were readily given to it. It was very difficut to get evidence along these lines, but the Bureau of Mineral Resources had quite a deal of information available on the stratigraphic surveys of Bass Strait and this knowledge was available to BHP. When BHP looked for assistance to finance the exploration and exploitation of these oil areas, it went into partnership with one of the biggest oil companies in the world, the Standard Oil Co. whose Australian subsidiary is Esso Standard Oil (Australia) Limited. The Esso-BHP group could quite easily become one of the richest oil empires in the world. The further development goes and the further the areas able to be exploited are extended, the more oil bearing regions are found. The surface of the Bass Strait oil fields has only been scratched, as is obvious from the success that is being enjoyed by this company which is continually drilling additional areas there. 1 turn to the other areas around the Australian coast in which oil exploration is taking place. I refer particularly to Western Australia where exploration rights to enormous areas of tens of thousands of square miles were granted by the State prior to the introduction of this legislation. The granting of those areas was confirmed by this legislation. As a consequence, more and more overseas companies, under the guise of being nominally Australian owned companies - no information is available as to the component investors in those companies - are being invited to participate in farm-outs and the like. This action in turn is adding to the drain of our natural resources to overseas investments. 
The recent currency manipulation has left Australian currency values  and the Australian investment market in such a position that it is a good paying proposition for companies from countries whose currency values have not been weakened to the extent that the Australian dollar has been weakened to pour all types of investment money, including hot money, into Australia. This money is entering Australia at the present time because of the depreciation by world standards of the Australian dollar. It is very difficult to say whether this situation can be corrected. In the last few days we have heard of the possibility of a further devaluation of the American dollar. This will mean that the Australian dollar will become a relatively much better proposition than 1 currency elsewhere. 
In the course of its investigation, the Senate Select Committee on Off-shore Petroleum Resources examined a whole range of matters. I think that the most pertinent was that of Commonwealth-State relations and the manipulation that actually went on to find a way by which the responsibilities that should have, been assumed by the Commonwealth were left in the hands of the States. The 'boundary of territorial waters, which traditionally was a limit of 3 miles off the coast, supposedly was extended to the 200-metre , limit by what was practically a verbal agreement between the Commonwealth and  the 
States. The States' jurisdiction over the offshore areas extended much further than the boundaries of their traditional territorial waters. Perhaps we could refer to evidence which was given by Professor Sawer. It was substantiated in an article in the Canberra Times' of 15th November 1967 when the professor was referring to the matter of ministerial and parliamentary control. He said: 
The trouble with the scheme which the Commonwealth and the States have botched up between them is that it provides neither foi proper legal control of the relevant administrative activities, nor for proper Ministerial and parliamentary control either. 
Of course he was referring to the off-shore legislation. He went on to say. 
But such political control is highly dangerous unless the Ministers in question are fully answerable to Parliament for the way in which they exercise their difficult and commercially profitable, and legally unlimited and uncontrollable discretions . . . 
The State Ministers who will make all the crucial decisions are in no way answerable to the Commonwealth Parliament, whose legislation provides the main basis of their powers. 
One could easily imagine the readiness with which one Commonwealth Minister will wriggle out of answering parliamentary questions and criticisms. 
Meanwhile, in the State Parliament, the relevant Minister will wriggle out of responsibility just as easily . . . 
The ultimate responsibility for these decisions could and should have been placed squarely with the Commonwealth Minister. 
Right throughout the Committee inquiry we find this grey area between Commonwealth and State responsibility never properly defined. I believe that it shows a lack of courage on the part of the Commonwealth. It has been referred to recently in another place in relation to the forthcoming meeting on the international law of the sea. That is where this matter has to be grappled with. It is no longer the prerogative of either the State or Federal governments to leave this twilight zone of offshore waters. The Commonwealth must take the responsibility for all activities off the Australian coast. In the very near future it will have to take responsibility for the delineation of boundaries between the Commonwealth and Papua New Guinea. It cannot possibly leave such an important matter to a State government. Although a State government has it own autonomy  and  sovereignty, under circumstances such as this it must be subservient to Commonwealth and national authority. Right through this legislation we find that these matters have been side-tracked because of the haste to obtain some sort of working arrangement so that the oil in Bass Strait can be exploited and because of the enormous amounts of money which were in sight in the development of this oil rich area. We find that the legislation was put together for the purpose of getting it off the ground. 
It is certainly my view that there should be a complete review of all the legislation because of the developments since its introduction in 1964. In that time because of the improvement in the technique of off-shore exploration, the types of drilling rigs which have been developed and the technical know-how which has been acquired not only in this country but also in other parts of the world, there should be another very close look at the whole of our off-shore oil industry. Mention was made earlier of the dissenting report. We drew attention to the matter of royalties. We expressed concern that royalty rates provided under the legislation needed review. The legislation provides royalty reviews every 21 years. It is of interest - this is supported by the statistics which have been presented in the report - that in the neutral zone in the Middle East there is a 20 per cent royalty paid. In Saudi Arabia a royalty of about 22c a barrel is paid. In Iran the royalty is 12i per cent; in the Netherlands - proposed for the continental shelf - it is up to 16 per cent; in France it is up to 14 per cent; in Venezuela it is 161 per cent. These are royalties paid to the governments. In Libya it is 124- per cent; Algeria,  12i  per cent; Iraq, Qatar and Kuwait 12i per cent; in the United Kingdom, 12i per cent; the United States of America - federal off-shore - 124 per cent to 16$ per cent; and Australia, in most States and proposed off-shore royalty, 10 per cent. This royalty has been set for a period of 21 years. 
An arrangement has been made since the introduction of this legislation, that extensions to leases in the Bass Strait area, or areas which are oil productive, are made for an extra  2i  per cent. But in my view the Commonwealth and the States are not receiving sufficient revenue from this great discovery of a natural resource which has potential for helping this country to do so many things which it should be able to do. Reference was also made to permit areas. In my view and in the view of other members of the Committee a review should be made of the terms that surround these permits. It has been mentioned before that some of the areas extending over tens of thousands of square miles of off-shore permits are too great for a company to be able to explore properly and quickly. The present rash of farm-outs is more an attempt to be able to prove the areas which the companies will retain and also to find out the areas which they will relinquish. Of course perhaps this is the name of the game in oil exploration. But in the overall picture it means that companies have been excluded from these areas because of the size of the original permits. The development is far too slow. The needs of Australia in crude oil and petroleum requirements are such that exploration and the discovery of new oil fields is quite urgent. The report is a massive document. No doubt a tremendous amount of work and research was put into it. 
Debate interrupted. 
I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I ask for leave to continue my remarks at a later date. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
This may be the question to end all questions. It is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Customs and Excise. Is it not the quintessence of hypocrisy that  Her  Majesty's Minister of State for Customs and Excise should admit a book into Australia, yet none of his colleagues has the intestinal fortitude to defend him? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service aware that despite the Government's effort to obscure the true position, the employment statistics to February this year show the rate of growth of employment to be 1 per cent compared with nearly 4 per cent for the previous 12 months? What measures is the Government taking to increase the rate of growth in employment to absorb the normal growth in the Australian work force? 
Will the AttorneyGeneral have inquires made into a claim on television last night by the editor of the Nazi Party publication 'Storm Trooper',  Mr Michael  McCormick, that police had given members of the Nazi Party assistance in counter demonstrations during moratorium marches? Did  Mr Michael  McCormick state that his group would be at tomorrow's Melbourne moratorium march and that it planned to infiltrate the march and cause dissension in the ranks? Will the Attorney-General examine  Mr McCormick's  statement that he had found the police very co-operative? Will the Attorney-General make a statement about these claims which suggest that violence is receiving the co-operation of the police? 
I, like  Senator Turnbull,  saw this television show tonight. I was most concerned that this young man, who was trying to tell the police his name - he claimed that he had identification papers to prove his name - was being bundled off virtually under arrest. Whether it is called apprehension or whatever the term is, he was being manhandled. The name that has been given to  Senator Greenwood  lately - Ivor the Terrible - is, I think, one that he is earning. Not only is he earning this name but he is- 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Order!  Senator O'Byrne,  you are transgressing the rules of the Senate. You will not refer to- 
I did not refer to him. 1 said that this was a name that has been given to the Attorney-General. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- That is not permissible. 
The whole thing comes back to this: It was not the Commonwealth Police who made the bungle; it was  Senator Greenwood,  the AttorneyGeneral, who made the bungle. Let me point out what, according to  Senator Greenwood,  actually happened. The statement released by  Senator Greenwood  commences: 
Commonwealth Police early this afternoon arrested William Robert Wood on a charge of having failed to attend a medical examination under the National Service Act. 
That is a fact. It is quite true. It did happen. It happened in the precincts of Parliament House.  Senator Greenwood  was advised that William Robert Wood would present himself. He wanted to speak to  Senator Greenwood. Senator Greenwood  evidently, instead of advising this man to speak to him, advised the Commonwealth Police. The Minister's statement continues: 
Wood was later charged in the Canberra Court of Petty Sessions with an offence against section 49 of the National Service Act. Bail was refused and he was remanded to the Court of Petty Sessions, Phillip Street, Sydney, to appear tomorrow morning. 
What actually happened, according to the Attorney-General is that: 
At approximately 1 p.m. a young man who gave his name as Wood introduced himself to an attendant at Parliament House and asked to see the Attorney-General. 
Now, the man himself, Chris Shanley, came to the attendant with a document which he wanted to present to  Senator Greenwood.  He said: This document is from W. R. Wood'. On this taking place, the Commonwealth Police intercepted him and he said that his name was Christopher Shanley. He gave his address as 16 Belmore Street, Enmore. He said that he had a university authority of identification in his pocket. He was not allowed to produce this identification and the Commonwealth Police paid no attention to numerous people who informed them that they had arrested the wrong person. They were under instruction from  Senator Greenwood  to arrest the person who came there at 1 o'clock. He came there to deliver a document on behalf of Wood. But  Senator Greenwood  was in haste to carry out what is behind his whole policy of selective persecution. This action followed the traditional lines followed by  Senator Greenwood  since he has held the position of Attorney-General and has administered the National Service Act. 
The situation amounts to this: Here is a young man whose civil rights have been taken away by a bungle. The bungle itself was conceived by  Senator Greenwood  because in the first place he did not accept the document or check up on the facts of the case. The allegations by the AttorneyGeneral in his statement are denied by Chris Shanley. He denies that he acted, with the assistance of other draft dodgers in an attempt to prevent the arrest of Bob Wood. In fact, as the Minister has already stated,  Mr Wood  waited in front of Parliament House, as he said he would, to be arrested. This intention was stated to the Press. He obviously made no attempt to escape. Chris Shanley says that the AttorneyGeneral's statement in relation to his actions and intentions has such unbelievable content that he challenges the AttorneyGeneral to prosecute him for obstruction. This threat has been made to Chris Shanley by senior members of the Commonwealth Police force, but they are acting under the instructions of the AttorneyGeneral. I believe that it is the obligation of the Attorney-General to rectify this situation. If he feels that he has been justified in putting the Commonwealth Police into this position by his haste, not only should he apologise to them but also he should apologise to Chris Shanley 1 say in conclusion that I quite understand the concern of  Senator Turnbull  that we should see before our own eyes in the precincts of Parliament House, the centre of democracy in this country, this fascistlike conduct. This is the outcome of legislation that was conceived for the purpose of prosecuting a policy that the Government has learnt to its great cost has been a false policy. It has been a wrong policy. The whole idea of the Vietnam war and of conscription for national service will be proved by history to have been a wrong one. The matter of the defence of this country is of great importance. But the defence of this country should be performed by men who are properly paid volunteers, thoroughly trained. National service is an unpopular and devious way of attaining the numbers to carry out this unpopular policy which not only is resented throughout this community but also is a policy that this Government will live to regret. I express my great concern at the action which took place this afternoon in Canberra. I expressed my great concern that the Attorney-General should place the Commonwealth Police in the position in which they have been placed at his direction and also that the individual freedom and civil rights of Chris Shanley were offended in this way. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry aware that figures published in the 'Sunday Australian' on 21st May show that overseas firms have cornered the Australian market in cosmetics and toiletries, indicating opportunities for high price arrangements and restrictive trade practices? Does the Department of Trade and Industry have details of this overseas control of an industry which has such a marked effect on the cost of living of most Australian women and many Australian men? Will the Minister direct the Department to make investigations into this industry and submit details of its findings to the Senate Select Committee on Foreign Ownership and Control for a thorough evaluation to be made of this trend? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Following the findings of the Pearce Commission on Rhodesia, will the Australian Government state firmly that it will support the United Nations  policy of economic isolation of Rhodesia or will Australia still be seen to run against world sentiment by supporting the illegal Smith regime? 
My question is directed to you,  Mr President,  as one of the Presiding Officers of the Parliament. In view of the growing volume of traffic at the front entrance to Parliament House and the necessity for some car drivers to wait at distances from the entrance steps, which makes it difficult for them to identify their passengers, will you confer with the appropriate authorities about the setting up of some device, such as a public address system or some system of lights, by which cars could be called to the front and so bring some order into what at times could be described as a major traffic jam? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport aware that severe criticism is being levelled at the Australian National Line because of the deterioration in the standard of comfort of tourists visiting Tasmania caused by the substitution of the 'Bass Trader' for the 'Empress of Australia' on the Sydney-Hobart run? Will the Minister seek an investigation into the allegation that the Australian National Line is purposely lowering the standard of tourist service to Tasmania on its ship in order to get out of the passenger carrying business and concentrate on the more profitable freight transport trade? 
I would be grateful if the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  would indicate whether we should proceed to debate the 3 income tax Bills together. 
The Bills before the Senate are the Income Tax Assessment Bill (No. 2) 1972, the Income Tax Assessment Bill (No. 3) 1972 and the Income. Tax (International Agreements) Bill 1972. Income Tax Assessment Bill (No. 2) relates to an amendment of section 26 (a) of the Income Tax Assessment Act. Its purpose is to define with more certainty the law relating to persons who have share transactions on the stock exchange. The present situation has evidently been ambiguous as to where the line of demarcation is to be drawn regarding the intention of a purchaser of shares. Each purchaser has been assessed on the circumstances surrounding each transaction and the onus has been on the taxation authorities to evaluate whether the share transactions have been engaged in expressly for the purpose of making  a  profit by resale or whether the purchaser had been making the purchase as an investment. , . 
The Bill attempts to make a clear separation when shares are purchased other than for profit making. For that reason the Bill has disturbed as little as possible the basic principle of section 26 (a) Of the Act while at the same time spelling out in clearer terms what were previously areas of uncertainty. It provides that shares owned by a person for a period of 18 months before resale are riot to be taken into account when assessing income tax. This applies from 12th April- 1972. Briefly, persons who are not share dealers or traders are not subject to income tax on any profit arising from the resale of shares, but any loss sustained by those people is not tax deductible. 
The other 2 income tax Bills are complementary. Income Tax Assessment Bill (No. 3) relates to a rebate of the tax on dividends received by companies in particular circumstances and strengthens the law under which a public company is classified for income tax purposes. It provides that certain dividends paid by a private company to another, company are not to be taken into account in assessing whether the private company has made a distribution of its income for undistributed income tax purposes. The explanatory memorandum that was issued in association with these Bills is very comprehensive.' It is- of a very technical nature but for those people who are interested in the finer details the measures are covered very effectively. As I pointed out earlier, these Bills are complementary and consequential to' each other. As our economic advisers1 agree with the provisions of the 3 Bills it is not our intention to oppose them. 

 Senator COTTON (New .South WalesMinister for Civil Aviation) in reply - (8.3) - As  Senator 0'Byrne,  my , ex-associate in the Whips Union has indicated we are taking these 3 Bills together. As he. mentioned, they are related and we are discussing them as one. The Opposition: raises no objection to them and  Senator O'Byrne  has explained the general principles underlying each of them. Income Tax- Assessment Bill (No. 2) makes more certain the tax position of persons involved in stock exchange transactions. This has been uncertain and the Bill introduces more precision. 
Income Tax Assessment Bill (No. 3) has the purpose of stopping people from avoiding tax, particularly through private company arrangements under which profit is passed across to a public company and in the net process the tax liability is reduced. In relation to dividend stripping procedures that have been conducted in this country, thereby to some extent defrauding the revenue, that position is being overcome. The Income Tax (International Agreements) Bill brings the provisions into force in the international area. I think  Senator O'Byrne  was correct in saying that detailed explanatory memoranda are available to earnest students of this subject who are interested. This is a typical move by the Taxation Office. It always brings out this type of memorandum and does it very well. The position is explained and easily understood. I do not think the process of democracy is being furthered by engaging in a long debate on a subject on which we are all in agreement. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
 The compliment which has been paid to me by the Acting Leader of the Government  (Senator Drake-Brockman)  and the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  is most unexpected and I appreciate it very much indeed. The hour is too late for me to start reminiscing; also, I feel too young to reminisce yet. One of these days - in the next 25 years or so  -  I may start writing down a few of the experiences 
I have had inside and outside of this Senate, tracing back events over the period. It is 24 years and 11 months since I first took my seat here in the Senate. It is 25 years and 8 months since I was elected to the Senate. I had that long wait between the election and taking my seat. In that time I have seen a flow of very interesting characters in the chair, amongst the most interesting of whom would be your good self,  Mr President.  I also have seen some very distinguished people occupying the position of  Clerk  of the Senate.  Mr Odges  has been a very worthy successor to  Mr Edwards  and  Mr Loot  over those 25 years. The same can be said about leaders of the Government in the Senate. We have seen many more leaders of the Government in the Senate than leaders of the Opposition in the Senate, but this means that we in the Opposition have been keeping the pressure on the Government, making those changes necessary. 
This was a most unusual gesture to be made and I look upon it as a very great compliment. I hope that I will remain here with honourable senators, electors willing and God helping a bit also, and be able to complete the cycle which started when I came here as the youngest sitting senator. 
I do not want to become the oldest but it is very gratifying to have had good health, and good company and the wonderful experience of seeing the Senate revitalised the way it has been to reach its proper status as an effective, purposeful and worthwhile chamber. It has regained what it should never have lost in the competition between this House and the House of Representatives. I have always felt that the House of Representatives was junior on the lists of seniority and priority. Now that the Senate has established itself again it should never let its position go. I thank honourable senators very much indeed for the compliment. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
 I ask the Minister representing the Treasurer: Why has no action yet been taken by the Government to exercise some authority over the inflationary influence of high bank interest rates? Is the Government not concerned with the spiralling prices of houses and the great, burden that high interest rates place on young people setting up a home? 
The Bill before the Senate proposes to amend the Tariff Board Act to give effect to a recommendation that 2 additional members be appointed to the Tariff Board and that the restrictions that previously applied to public servant members be increased. There is an assurance that not only will the appointment of the additional members assist materially in speeding up the progressive review of the tariff but also that the inquiries will be full and thorough and that every opportunity will be given, as in the past, to manufacturers te put their case. The Opposition does not oppose this measure and we give it a speedy passage. 
This is a machinery measure which provides for the validation of customs collections up to 30th June. The Opposition supports the Bill. 
My question is directed to the Acting Leader of the Government in the Senate. In view of the growing importance of Australia as a developing country and as a focal centre for regional and international conferences and the need to use the present Parliament House for this purpose in the future, will the Acting Leader of the Government use his influence on his ministerial colleagues to make 1972 the year of decision to commence the construction of a new parliament house and so fulfil 2 long-standing hopes of the Australian nation, namely a new parliament house and a suitable conference centre? 
Has the AttorneyGeneral information from the Commonwealth Police that American crime syndicates have infiltrated Australian business and that leading American crime organisers have come here to meet Australian criminals and their associates? Have these crime syndicates infiltrated New South Wales clubs which use a particular type of poker machine? If the Attorney-General is determined, as stated in the Press, that no overseas crime syndicates should be allowed to operate in Australia, what is happening in the Department of Immigration that entry visas are being or would be issued to these criminals? Does the AttorneyGeneral intend to exercise his powers of arrest and does he intend to deport these people as undsirable aliens? 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General. Does the Attorney-General know enough about the presence of an American crime syndicate operating in Australia to be able to identify members of it as not being members of the Mafia? Does the continual reference by the Attorney-General to the existence of the Mafia in Australia not impute criminal involvement to a section of the Italian community in Australia and by repeatedly using the word 'Mafia' does he not compound the insult to the Italians in Australia? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service. Does the Government plan to heed the recent statements by the New South Wales Governor,  Sir Roden  Cutler, V.C., when he questioned the need for conscription? Will the Government recognise that  Sir Roden  was speaking for the great majority of Australians who believe that it is time to scrap the National Service Act and release from prison the young men who have courageously defied it? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Is the Minister aware that severe criticism is being levelled at the Australian National Line because of the deterioration in the standard of comfort afforded tourists visiting Tasmania caused by the substitution of the 'Bass Trader' for the Empress of Australia' on the Sydney-Hobart run. 
Will the Minister seek an investigation into the allegation that the Australian National Line is purposedly lowering the standard of the tourist service to Tasmania in order to get out of the passenger carrying business and to concentrate on the more profitable freight transport trade. 

 Senator COTTON- The Minister for Shipping and Transport has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
I am aware that some passengers travelling on the Australian National Line's vessel, 'Australian Trader', between Sydney and Hobart have expressed a measure of dissatisfaction with the standard of facilities available. 
A significant proportion of the difficulties presently being encountered result from several industrial issues which have had an adverse effect on the service to passengers. 
Recognising the importance of passenger comfort,  2  senior officers, of the Australian National Line, recently travelled on 'Australian Trader' to carry out detailed enquiries concerning passengers' complaints and to investigate at first hand the deficiencies that are claimed to be affecting the standard of comfort and service. 
I cannot agree with the allegation that the 
Australian National Line is lowering the standard of tourist service to Tasmania in order to withdraw from the Tasmanian passenger service. On the contrary the Line has been at pains to keep Australian Trader' up to the same standard as Empress of Australia' and the vessel has just completed a refit at Newcastle for this purpose. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service: Is it fair to assume that the subsidy of $200,000 to provide fares for people looking for jobs and designed to help for a year the 100,000 persons now unemployed will represent a subsidy to each of those persons of $2 a year or 4c a  week? If so, is it possible to make a meaningful contribution to the personal tragedy of unemployment by such a trifling handout? 
I move: 
That  the Senate take note of the statement.  I seek leave to make my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
My question is addressed to  Senator Cotton  in his capacity as Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry. What is the Government's reaction to the assurance given by the People's Republic of China to the Canadian Government that Canada can count on China as a long term customer for wheat? Is it a fact that Chinese wheat purchases from Canada have been worth about $840m in the past decade? If so, how does this huge trade figure compare with the amount that the Australian Government's refusal to recognise China has cost the wheat farmers of Australia? 
I preface my question by referring to the Attorney-General's answer to a question on a visit to North Vietnam by a group of Australians. I ask the Attorney-General: Were passports granted to the 10 men recently killed in a  clash with Yugoslav soldiers and, if so, could it fairly be said that the Australian Government's failure to prevent this armed incursion against a state with which Australia has diplomatic relations was more detrimental to our international reputation than the use of passports by Australian people who are trying to establish, after years of governmental untruths, the real situation in Vietnam? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science. The Minister was quoted in the 'Mercury' of 31st July 1972 as saying that the independent schools of Australia had 22 per cent of the total enrolments but had received only 10 per cent of Commonwealth money advanced to all schools. Will the Minister please make available the calculations which led him to make this statement? Are indirect grants in the form of Commonwealth taxation deductions to the extent of $70m and indirect grants available to nonState schools listed in the brochure 'Government Grants - Allowances and Subsidies for Primary and Secondary Schools and their Pupils' issued by the Commonwealth Department of Education and Science included in these calculations? 
 I direct a question to the Acting Leader of the Government in the Senate in his capacity as Minister for Air. In view of the fact that the Budget papers state that over $3 6m in increased payments is expected to be made on the Fill aircraft and medium lift helicopters, can he say how much of that amount represents higher payments for the Fill air craft and how much will be spent on the helicopters? Does this mean that the price of the Fill has gone up once again without any public statement by the Government? 
We on this side of the Senate welcome this Bill to amend the Lighthouses Act. Its purpose is to transfer power over lighthouses in Papua New Guinea to the Government of the Territory. We view it as a further step towards self government and the eventual independence of the Territory of Papua New Guinea and its people. We believe that it is of paramount importance that Australia do everything possible to ensure that on achieving independence Papua New Guinea is a friendly neighbour. This measure is an indication of our determination to make this friendship enduring. It is virtually a machinery measure covering navigation, which is a vital segment of administrative responsibility in relation to the waters of an island mass.  I  pay tribute to the Commonwealth Department of Shipping and Transport for the very high standards that it has achieved and maintained through 'he years in the marine navigation installations in Papua New Guinea. 
The actual date of the transfer of power has yet to be decided, but the transfer will be made at an appropriate time. The Australian Government has offered to continue its interest in matters relating to marine navigation in the Territory. This should be of great assistance to the Administration of Papua New Guinea as it will enable the training of technicians and facilitate a smooth change-over of responsibility. The Bill will remove all reference to the Territory of Papua New Guinea from the Lighthouses Act but it is my view that the friendly light to guide the mariner will continue to send out its beam as usual, despite the historic administrative changes taking place in this area. We do not oppose the measure. 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General. In view of the police raids in Melbourne. Sydney and Geelong yesterday, allegedly seeking evidence of the operations of Ustashi terrorists, will the Attorney-General make a full statement on these raids and give the 
Senate as much information as he can at this stage? Can he also explain whether these raids were instigated by him? If so, can he see any apparent conflict between this order and his statement last week that  there was no evidence of any Ustashi terrorist groups in this country? 
I ask the AttorneyGeneral: Is there any truth in reports that legislation establishing the proposed new monopolies commission is now unlikely to be brought before Parliament this session because Cabinet is re-examining the whole concept of the commission with a view to giving it power to inquire into and report upon foreign takeovers of Australian companies? If the report is not true, will the Attorney-General state categorically that the new legislation, including that dealing with the monopolies commission, will be brought into the Parliament before the Federal election? 
I shall ask 2 questions relating to the Schedule. Clause 4 states: 
The construction of a storage tank capable of storing . approximately 150 , acre feet of water, about' 8 miles south-west of Werrimull. 
Is this to be an open, excavated earth storage tank? What are the particulars of this storage tank? My other question relates to clause 6 which states: 1 ' 
The' acquisition of land that is' required for the carrying out of any of the works referred to in the preceding paragraphs of this Schedule or may be affected by any of those works. 
I would like to know whether the land which has to be acquired, will be replaced by freeing land which is already being used for the open drains and which will be given up?. Is .any sort of reconciliation being made between the land which is now used for drains and the .land, which will be acquired for the new pipeline? 
Both  Senator Webster  and  Senator Jessop  have tried- 
I drive a Ford, when it is going. Recently in Canberra there was a strike by drivers of the Ford ministerial cars. They are shockingly expensive cars but they cannot keep the rain out. The drivers had to go on strike to get an extra part fitted so that the rain would not come in the window. That is only part of the story. Honourable senators should hear what I think of my car.  Senator Webster  spoke about a working man's car. Mine is not a working man's car. The cars that are available today for a working man cost in the vicinity of $2,500 to $3,000 but by the time he goes to  Senator Webster's  friends and borrows money at an interest rate of 16 per cent flat, his car costs him $3,500 before he has paid for it. But that situation is part of the setup that  Senator Webster  is trying to protect. The motor vehicle industry in Australia could be classified, as it was by Ralph Nader, as an industry needing thorough investigation. 
He is a better man than you are, Gunga Din. He has stated that the automobile industry in the Western world is building in obsolescence.  Senator Webster  said that he has driven 6 Valiants. He looks only a relatively young man. I do not know how long it took him to wear out the 6 Valiants, but I presume that he paid $3,500 for each Valiant. If he has had 6 Valiants, that is an illustration of the poor quality of the Valiants. He emphasised that he lost $500 to $700 a year in depreciation, that is robbery. It is all right for him to lose that kind of money because he is a wealthy man but he spoke of the Valiant as a worker's car. But the honourable senator spoke of it as being the worker's car. The worker is being robbed by the car companies immediately he walks out of the showroom.  Senator Primmer  did not mention the workers last night. He said that in Melbourne some months ago a businessman purchased a Ford Cortina motor car. Because of the multiple faults, the poor pre-delivery service, the poor after sales service he said that he was visiting the service station which retailed the article to him so frequently that he felt like a full-time employee. This is because he spent so much time trying to protect his equity in his car. These are a few of the faults. When I heard these faults they sounded quite familiar to me. They reminded me of my monthly bill from the Ford Motor Co. which manufactured the vehicle that I drive. To quote  Senator Primmer:   . . the doors will not close and/or open and/or lock; front end, vibration; oil consumption  high to excessive; water entering car through windscreen surrounds, the boot and under the dash; headlamps not properly focussed; high oil losses from engine and gearbox; master brake cylinder leaking oil; faults in electrical wiring, such as ignition turned on by headlamp switch; faulty paint work; internal trims fall off; rear vision mirror falls off; spare parts supply extremely poor, causing long delays. 
I can add to that that the mudguards are like tissue paper and cost about $40 to replace when dented when the car in front is reversed into in the carpark. The bumper bars just fold up. They are not bumper bars; they are just ornaments. They do not protect. Honourable senators may have seen a picture in a newspaper yesterday showing a semi-trailer that pushed a car against a lamp post. The car folded up like a tinder box or match box. These are the sorts of things that  Senator Webster  and  Senator Jessop  are protecting here when the public of Australia is being absolutely robbed. I do not know why these 2 senators would want to stick their necks out as they have. The automobile industry cannot be defended, because there is inbuilt obsolescence. The industry wants cars to wear out, rust out or just drop out. This is the situation with the automobile industry. It does not want to give service to the public. The position in the spare parts industry in Australia is scandalous. If the components of a Ford motor car were to be replaced with spare parts piece by piece, it would cost about $6,000, plus the cost of assembly. 
Yes, and this is the position. This is the sort of thing that  Senator Webster  and  Senator Jessop  were protecting when attacking my colleague because he has raised a genuine case of the public being exploited. 
Possibly it would be wise to drive a Mercedes. There is a little quality of workmanship in a Mercedes Benz. I have been the victim of our automibile industry. Recently I was driving along a country road at midnight returning from a meeting when my lights failed. I staggered the car home in fits and starts. When I took the vehicle to an electrical engineer he found an inbuilt fault that is in all these Falcon motor cars which allows the headlights to fail. He said that if I replaced it I would receive good service but that the one built into the Falcon, Fairmont and Fairlane models is inadequate. I was absolutely astounded to hear that the vehicles contain built-in death. If 1 had been travelling at any speed I could have run off the road and honourable senators would not have had the pleasure of my being here tonight. 
I had a horse once and I could not afford to feed him.  Senator Webster  spoke of pollution. I ask whether he has ever ridden in a i inker. The horse was not all that perfect. But I rose to congratulate  Senator Primmer  for raising this matter. There is no authority in Australia to which these Cortina owners could go to receive justice. They must approach members of Parliament. This investigation agency - I do not know whether it specialises in divorces or what - at least placed an advertisement in a newspaper to see whether it could obtain some verification of the case that had been put before it by the Cortina owner. The fact that so many replies were received shows that the people have been sold a pig in the poke in the Cortina. They sign up for it, buy it and are left carrying the Cortina. Therefore,  Senator Primmer  has done a good job as an ombudsman in regard to motor cars. He is someone who has enough courage to whom these people can appeal. He is not influenced by interests or whatever other reasons the honourable senators opposite who attacked him tonight may have. He did not make an attack on the workers of the car companies, lt is the technique of inbuilt obsolescence carried out by these companies that needs deep investigation. I think that it would do the Senate more good to set up a committee to investigate, through the advice of experts, the standard of quality of these motor cars. The committee could also investigate the chain system of working, that is. the speed, the clocks, the closed television circuit and the man with the mirror looking down on the workers all the time to see that they are passing the cars out through the sausage machine. That is what should be investigated. It is not the fault of the workers; it is the fault of the system under which they work. 
Some months ago a fellow was showing me a comparison between a Japanese motor car and an Australian motor car. Under the boot, one vehicle was finished off and on the other vehicle daubs of paid covered up the faults that had been caused by it being hit as it passes along the chain of production. It was not finished as thoroughly as a car in that price range should be. This is a part of the speed, the timing and the clock system. When the vehicle gets to the end of the line, it is pushed into the hands of the salesmen. I refer to all the money that is spent on advertising which comes out of the pocket of the working man to pay for the newspaper advertisements and all the other gimmicks. Then the salesmen put over their gimmicks. By the time the motor car is purchased and driven out the front door of the salesroom it has depreciated by $300 or $400 even if it were to be resold within an hour of purchase. These are the things that honourable senators opposite ought to be speaking about and not criticising  Senator Primmer  for exposing what is to me a disgraceful situation. Trie same thing is happening in the United States of America.  Senator Primmer  quoted from a book written by Ralph Nader showing that this is part of the whole technique of the automobile industry. The purchaser receives the least possible value for the highest possible price. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Does the Minister agree that it is a widely held view among economists that the under-valuation of the Australian currency is one of the major factors in Australia's high rate of inflation? As the Budget gave nothing extra to the 112,000 people registered as being out of work and as the people who are receiving the inadequate unemployment benefit are those suffering most from inflation, would it not be an economically and socially desirable move to revalue the Australian dollar? 
Being the father of the Senate, 1 will now become the first popper. 1 direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior who is Minister in charge of Commonwealth electoral matters. In view of the imminence of the Federal election at which members of the House of Representative and a  Senator will  spend and have spent on their behalf considerable sums of money exceeding the statutory limit of $500 as prescribed by the Electoral Act, and in view of the necessity to make a statutory declaration which, according to the Electoral Act, is false if the sum spent on behalf of members and candidates exceeds $500, when can the Government be expected to bring in legislation amending the Electoral Act which will remove this embarrassing ambiguity and thus clear candidates from the obvious charge of perjury? 
I preface my question which is addressed to the AttorneyGeneral by referring to his answer given yesterday about police raids in relation to the activities of Ustasha terrorists in Australia. As the Attorney-General said last week that he was unaware of any evidence of Ustasha activity in Australia, will he expand on his answer of yesterday in which he said that he had not been aware of the intention of the police under his authority to carry out these extensive raids? Will he make a full explanation so that the impression will not be gained that he is not aware of the activities or plans of the Commonwealth Police under his charge. 
The debate on the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Primary and Secondary Industry and Trade concerning freight rates charged by the Australian National Line shipping service to and from Tasmania was very well received. I think a tribute should be paid to the members of the Committee who so thoroughly examined this problem within the field of their terms of reference. I think they were able for the first time to give not only to the Senate but also to the people of Australia the proper emphasis to be placed on the great difficulties which Tasmania experiences as a result of its geographically insular position. Not only are we Tasmanians disadvantaged because of this insular position as related to the neighbouring continental mass with its alternative forms of transport such as very highly subsidised railways and highways systems and regular airway and seaway schedules, but also the lack of population in Tasmania adds to our problems. This in turn makes it essential that the great bulk of production which takes place in Tasmania on a primary and secondary level is without a readily available local market and must he exported either to the mainland or overseas. Wilh this in view the Committee has tried to come to grips with the problem with regard to the ANL activities and the introduction of new techniques in the way of roll-on roll-off vessels to provide a service which is satisfactory in terms of both regularity and costs. We have heard from Government senators and people outside this chamber that all blame for Tasmania's shipping problems is to be attached to the employees associated with that industry. In fact, the situation is typical of the economy as a whole: Inflation and increasing costs are making it impossible for many organisations to do business in Tasmania simply because of its isolation. These costs could be absorbed were there a ready local market - but there are not enough people resident in Tasmania to make the same adjustments to costs. Therefore the inflationary trend in the economy greatly affects those on the island. 
The recommendations of the Committee covered a very wide field. I think most of the points that were made have been given very close consideration. The Minister spoke recently of an investigation into recent increases in both freight and passenger rate charges. He pointed out that if averaged across the board these adjustments in the freight schedule on the Tasmanian service apply to only a limited number of items and amount to an increase of only 1 per cent. The whole concept of a roll-on roll-off service, in my view, should have brought greater benefits to Tasmania in the way of reduced freight costs. After all, although a formula showed that nearly half the costs are on the land side - the costs incurred when a ship is lied up- 
The report includes a formula which shows that 50 per cent of costs are to be attributed to the land leg. It states: 
Though there were some variations in the relative proportions quoted by witnesses, these depending to some extent on the nature of the goods and the size, shape and weight of packed units of cargo, the Committee believes it is reasonable to accept the following figures as a basis for consideration: Percentage of total charges - sea freight 40 to 45 per cent, wharfage 10 per cent, land leg charges 45 to 50 per cent. 
Those percentages add up to 100 per cent. The report goes on: 
It seemed to the Committee that the position of the Australian National Line had not been viewed in the proper perspective when Mie criticism arose following the shipping freight increase of 12 per cent in August 1970. In the preceding 11 years, despite rising costs in the latter states, the freight rates charged by the Line had remained constant, with  the  qualification that there had been in 1961 a reduction of 15 per cent in the rates charged tor shipments from Tasmania to the mainland. Over the same period, freight forwarders' charges had been increased progressively by approximately 50 per cent. 
So although the criticism that has been levelled at the Waterside Workers Federation and at other unions associated with this industry has been pretty sharp, the report shows that the freight forwarders' charges have increased progressively by approximately 50 per cent. Yet I have not heard one word of criticism from  Senator Wright  or from others who have been examining this situation of the effect of that increase on overall freight charges. 
As a matter of fact I have before me a document dated 17th August last in which the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon)  points out that a review covering the period March to December last year showed that costs had increased by $1.8m. It reads: 
Since increases were last applied in March 1971, there have been losses through strikes and increases in wages, maintenance, repairs, insurances, terminal charges and general overhead. 
These increases in cost include the Tasmanian land end of the Line's operations as well as the mainland end. 
After all, this is a shipping line which has very little at either end of its run because of the nature of its charter. The facilities for booking through private agents have been mentioned. My family is to sail from Tasmania tonight on the 'Empress of Australia'. Perhaps we have been favoured, because following a number of phone calls we were able, first, to get a standby on some chairs on board, and later, miraculously, we were able to secure a 4-berth cabin. But when we made our first inquiries we were told: 'No, there is a big line up'. As I see the pattern, the private agents like to take bookings from all over the country and to hold them as long as they can before they confirm them with the Line. As a result early bookings are put on the stand-by list and it is not until the last week or so before the ship sails, when the company has to run around all its agents to see whether they can have their bookings confirmed, that anything can be done about final bookings. This seems to me to be most uneconomical and unsatisfactory, and it has a very bad public relations effect. 
A French sea captain visited me in Launceston, and I have never heard a Frenchman swear in English as fluently as he did because of all the trouble that he had going from the tourist bureau to the booking office - having the big runaround in Melbourne. He tried his very best to get any sort of accommodation on the 'Princess of Tasmania'. When he arrived on board the ship he found that there were 30 to 40 vacant berths. He was appalled to think that this could happen on what is not only a national line but also one of our few life lines cross the Strait. He wanted to come across by sea because he did not like air travel. 
The Committee commented on it, but I do not think its recommendations were forceful enough. It is my firm opinion that we have to take a wider view of transport generally throughout Australia. There is not a shadow of doubt that Trans-Australia Airlines is the most efficient organisation in Australia for achieving quick results when inquiries are made and for giving service. TAA leaves any other organisation for dead. It has an electronic system for registering bookings. 
I speak as I find it. The people in Ansett are very good. I must admit that Ansett is my second preference. I have no complaints about that airline. When I started travelling with TAA, Ansett was not in existence. There was Holymans and then there was the Australian National Airlines which became Ansett Transport Industries. I suppose Ansett has the same facilities as TAA. The point I am making is that if people book with TAA in Brisbane the booking staff can immediately receive advice from the central office. They know within seconds whether it is possible to make the booking. Why cannot the Australian National Line operate with this kind of technique, so that people who want to book with the Line can go to a TAA office or an Ansett office - preferably one only of the airline offices, and TAA has offices right throughout the Commonwealth. Instead of booking to travel by air they could book to travel by sea. The same process could be followed. They would know what the bookings were and what the availability of bookings was for 12 months ahead if neccessary. Not only would this give the general public greater respect for the Line and provide better public relations but it must result in more economies when all the berths are filled and there is maximum usage of the very expensive vessels. 
The present difficulties arise from the costs of $1.8m that have been mentioned. This has been a cause of great concern  to  Tasmanians because they see no end to these spiralling costs. At the same time  we  find that our industries are suffering because every time there is an increase  in  freight our capacity to compete on the mainland is reduced and the incentive for people in Tasmania to produce goods is reduced because  of  the increased freight costs. 
Is  Senator Webster  interested in the ANL or does he want a sort of Budget debate? I can elaborate on that perhaps during the Budget debate, I think he might be a better authority on old bomb motor cars than perhaps he is on Tasmanian shipping problems. The Minister in his statement of 17th August said: 
Because of these cost increases, losses incurred in ANL's Tasmanian services and the high cost of providing passenger facilities, it became regretfully inevitable that some increases in charges must occur. 
Of course, that is quite obvious, but the important point is the impact of these charges. It is all very well to isolate the Australian National Line and to say that unfortunately the increases have to occur, but there is a flow on from these increased charges right through the whole economy in Tasmania. Not only that, but when there is an increase in shipping freights, the forwarding people get their proportion and all along the line this reaction accumulates to the disadvantage of the Tasmanian people generally. 
The Minister mentioned that fare and accompanied vehicle rate increases will bring in about an extra $150,000 annually and freight increases will bring in about $200,000. Of course, these increases apply to individual fares and cars. The cost of sending a car to Tasmania and bringing it back to the mainland has practically doubled. 
Yes, the statement of 17th August. 
This is the unfortunate thing. 
Perhaps we could take that view, but the other competing lines have not done any better. They certainly have not provided the same standard of service. I suppose the 'Empress of Australia' could be called one of the most modern roll-on roll-off vessels operating in the southern hemisphere. She has provided facilities that should really have considerably reduced freight costs but the advantage has been eaten up by these added charges. 
The Minister said that further savings will come about through the recent rationalisation of the services plus increased efficiency. I am hoping to hear the Minister make some definite statement about the booking arrangements because I think the private side of the booking arrangements has let the Government down. I do not want to accuse the Union Steamship Co. of having any purpose to denigrate or to undermine the Australian National Line, but I do not think that the company is equipped properly to handle the bookings for this service. I am certain that when berths are allocated to the various booking offices throughout Australia those offices are not as interested as we are in making the Line a viable economic proposition. All they are interested in is getting their commission. If Joe Blow comes into a booking office and wants a berth or a chair on the Empress of Australia' that office would like to sell it to him, but if he does not come in to the office it will just send the allocation back to the shipping line at the latest possible time. That results in a loss to the company. I believe that if what the Minister has said about the recent rationalisation and increased efficiency means that this aspect is being considered, we will see quite an improvement in the situation and perhaps a longer period before the next freight increase. 
I come finally to the point that the Minister made in his statement. He said: 
On the matter of freight subsidy, the Government has looked at this proposal from time to time, but it has not been able to accept it. In addition the Senate Committee investigation frowned on "subsidy. 
I do not know how we are going to overcome this matter because the old shipping line to Tasmania was subsidised. The Taroona', the 'Nairana' and the 'Loogana' were subsidised for carrying mail. 
Yes, and perhaps it helped Tasmania to reach its present population and its present standard of production. We have all become tired of reiterating our complete dependence on shipping services for the bulk of our freight. 
Sitting suspended from 12.45 to 2.15 p.m. 
When the sitting was suspended, I was drawing the attention of honourable senators to the peculiar and invidious position of Tasmania with regard to the freight problem which is the subject of the report now being considered by the Senate. The latest round of increases adds a burden which, in the eyes of Tasmanian people, brings the State to a crisis situation. People in local government and business are confused as to the economic future of Tasmania. The latest freight increases became effective on 14th August. An increase of almost 20 per cent took place in 5 categories of cargo. These freight increases followed freight increases of up to 50 per cent on vehicle and passenger services. The management of the Australian National Line explained the increases by saying that they were designed to eliminate anomalies in cargo rates. 

 Senator Marriott mentioned that the activities of the ANL illustrated the inbuilt inefficiency of government enterprises. Down through the years that I have known Senator Marriott I have been on committees with him and enjoyed his friendship. But this is where our philosophies part. It is my contention that many of these activities are public services in the same way as roads, electricity, water supply and telephone facilities are essential public services and are not areas for private enterprise. Private enterprise has operated in these fields in the United States of America, but many of them are failing now. The transport system of the United States, particularly the rail system, faces bankruptcy and, in more and more areas, the individual States are being forced to take up their public services. 
Looking at private enterprise in Tasmania we see not only that it has been given a number of considerations and concessions but also that it has been a source of revenue to the Commonwealth. After all, Tasmania receives poor royalties in responsibilities to provide these facilities as respect of the first class quality timber it produces, which is mainly exported, and from its mineral resources. Tasmania has spent a great deal of its financial resources on the development of hydro-electric schemes to attract industries that use hydro-electric power. These industries include the aluminium industry and the paper pulp industry. Many of these industries disadvantage Tasmania because of the high level of pollution that they produce. Nevertheless these industries have made a contribution to Tasmania's economy. Yet such facilities as our shipping services are making it nearly impossible for Tasmania's economy to remain viable. 
It has been pointed out that, in the recent Budget, the Commonwealth found no difficulty in allocating $54m for the Tarcoola-Alice Springs railway and $2. 5m for the sealing of the Eyre Highway. These are most important contributions by the Commonwealth towards the Australian transport system. We claim that not only an equal share should be given to Tasmania but more should be provided. (Quorum formed) I appreciate the concern of  Senator Negus  that my words of wisdom were falling on so few ears. Nevertheless, I know that there are times when honourable senators are busily engaged in their offices on electoral work. I fully understand how busy they are. I had pointed out that the Budget provides $54m for the rail system between Tarcoola and Alice Springs and $2. 5m for the sealing of the Eyre Highway. Yet, we cannot get the message across to the Government that similar sympathetic consideration should be given to the only method of transport available to Tasmania for its commercial products. These other areas to which assistance is being provided have alternative methods of transport and are not as isolated as Tasmania is. 
The Commonwealth Government has power to provide assistance to Tasmania. I draw attention to the contribution that was made by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition in another place,  Mr Barnard,  when he was speaking on 1 7th August 1972. Dealing with the Australian Coastal Shipping Commission Act, the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition referred to section 17, and stated: 
It is worth looking closely at this section because its implications have been largely overlooked. The section empowers the Minister to direct the Commission to establish, maintain and operate shipping services to meet the requirements of a particular area where it is desirable in the public interest for such a service to be provided. Furthermore, the section stales clearly what can be done when such a service is established and it operates at a loss. If the service operates at a loss and in the same year the ANL records an overall loss, the line is entitled to be reimbursed by the Commonwealth. The amount of the reimbursement is defined as  the  amount of the loss of that particular shipping service or the overall loss of the ANL whichever is the less. 
. also am at a loss to understand why the Committee did not deal with this point. I mention particularly  Senator Rae  who, unfortunately, is absent this afternoon. 1 am very sorry to hear the reasons why he is absent, lt is absolutely essential that the terms of this provision of the Act should be brought into effect with regard to the shipping line operating to Tasmania. This is a disguised form of subsidy, but provision is there. Yet, the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon)  has said that this power has never been invoked and that no reimbursement has ever been made by the Commonwealth under that section. There is no time like the present for it to re-examine not only its responsibility towards Tasmania and the Australian National Line but the compensating gains that it would make by keeping Tasmania a viable, developing, healthy and economical part of this Commonwealth. 
There has been a depression of mind and spirit in so many directions in our little island. Our mainstay for so many years has been our fruit industry - our apple and pear industry. Its activities have been well ventilated in the Australian Parliament over the past 72 years. The industry is in a very bad economic plight. This has been brought about by an alteration of the emphasis of our . markets, the accessibility to the European and British markets by South African competitors, as well as by shipping freights, coming back to the subject. The extra imposition on the Tasmanian people at this stage is such that the Commonwealth must provide some incentive for the people of Tasmania to find a way out. 
Recently there was a change of government in Tasmania. It is possible that the Commonwealth Government might feel that it might get some political gain by making it more difficult for that State Government of a different political colour to overcome this problem. I say that because these issues often reflect more on State and local government than they do on the Commonwealth. I believe that the national Parliament and the national Government should approach this problem on a truly national level. Tasmania is the poorer sister of the family. There is no doubt about that. However, it is poorer only in the economic sense because Tasmania can match the other States in the other qualities of life. I am trying to emphasise the special need of Tasmania at this time of economic crisis when Tasmania's cost structure is influenced so strongly by freight charges incurred in transporting our goods to the mainland. The lifting of the confidence of our people needs immediate attention. 1 am taking advantage of the debate on this report apropos the Australian National Line and Tasmania's transport problems generally in the hope thai, in the councils of the Government, Tasmania will be given urgent consideration and whatever concessions can be granted to help out at the present time. 
The Committee set out to do a job and did it very thoroughly. Members of the Committee did credit to themselves as individuals and to the idea of Senate select committee investigations. Its work represents another of those little segments of the mosaic in building up the prestige and usefulness of the Senate. I believe that the system of democratic government is enhanced by the presentation of these reports because they are then available for further research and for projections along the lines of the recommendations made by the various committees. We of the Opposition support the report and hope that some of the suggestions made during the course of the debate on it will be heeded by the Government and that this will be to Tasmania's advantage. 
I feel that I should give expression to a few of my thoughts on this very important matter. Australia is involved in a part of a new era in history. The views which  Senator Sim  expressed tonight are symptomatic of a world wide complaint known as future shock. Future shock is the inability of many people to adapt themselves to the rapid changes that are taking place everywhere in the world. Previously changes took place over a generation or more. Now the changes are taking place in months or years. I think that we have to take that view about the transformation of the situation in Papua New Guinea. There has been over 100 years . of the white man's influence there and 50-odd years of Australian influence there. We have tried to bring the people there to our way of thinking by paternalism, by attempts to change them, by detribalising them, by making them work along the lines we prescribe and by attaching them to the system in which all our institutions, our churches and our philosophy are directed. We have tried to direct them towards our way of living. This change is part of the future shock from which people are suffering. 
The system to which we have subscribed for practically the whole period of our history is up against very serious challenge from within. One can imagine the thoughts in the minds of members of a race which has lived and survived for countless centuries as tribal people in certain areas and as ethnic groups which have had a very simple type of life. They are healthy, vigorous and virile people. They have gone their own way and have survived in and often despite their environment. As history shows, we have become involved in their lives for only a short period of time. Now the time has come when they have realised that it is important for their self-respect and dignity to govern their own affairs. I am quite certain that they would have learned that the ultimate goals of our system - the pursuit of profit, individualism, glorification of the millionaire and the inquisitive person - do not suit their background and history. 
It is hard to say, because we do not know what happened to the people who were there before our time. There has been over 50 years of our influence on them. We have detribalised them, brought them to the coast from their tribal areas and found jobs for them under conditions which suited us. We provided in the bottom of the garden a little house for the boy. 
I am making a few observations about the situation that Australia has to face at this historic moment of the transference to these people of their independence and self government so that they can resume, after a rude interruption, their own way of life. 
Exactly. We detribalised the Australian Aborigines. We deprived them of their land, their hunting areas. I am almost ashamed to tell the Senate what we did to the Aborigines in Tasmania. One has only to look at the history of Melbourne to see what we did to the continental Aborigines. But this is a more enlightened age. People can witness what we are actually doing in Papua New Guinea. We were less accessible in the days when we dealt with our ethnic problem. We still have these so-called ugly reminders that we have not finished with the problem. We have not swept our problem under the carpet, as so many of our racist Australians would like to do. 'If you want a nigger for a neighbour, vote Labor' and that sort of slogan are illustrations of the feelings of these racist groups. 
The ACTING  PRESIDENT (Senator Wood)  - Order! The honourable senator is getting rather wide of the Bill, which has a limited purpose. He should confine himself to the Bill. 

 - Senator Sim said that it took 1,000 years for us to develop the British way of life. It has taken the people of Papua New Guinea - the little tribal groups - longer than that to develop their way of life. They are just as entitled to maintain their way of life, if they wish. There is an Irish song which has these words: 'The strangers came and tried to teach us their way; they scorned us just for being what we are'. I add my own words: They might as well go chasing after cargo or put a match to their big fat cigar'. I am certain that that attitude is the attitude of these people who are about to obtain their independence. That is their attitude towards our paternalism.  Senator Sim  paid tribute to the expatriates. During the past 25 years I have been to Papua New Guinea and met some of these wonderful 

 Papua New Guinea Bill types of men who were part of the Administration. Many have succumbed to the lure of taking up land there and having rights over the land, which is part of the colonial process. 
 We were developing the coffee lands in the highlands. 
 I know that many gave their lives. They did so because Australia wanted this area as a buffer. There were a lot of missionary people there. There is no doubt that over the years the Department of External Territories has acted in a very gracious and kindly way towards these expatriates. All that is in the past. The natives have not been able to adapt themselves to something that is in the Anglo Saxon way of life which says that we need this combination of ideals, established habits, practices and the like and a system of law which- is based on the protection of one thing - that is, personal property. All our laws are designed to protect property. In our system property comes first and the person comes second. I do not think these people quite understand those values. They will have to sort out those values for themselves. 
In this day and age these people will have to work out their own destiny. This influence by Australian has been continuing since the period after the First World War when the Germans had had their turn. The Germans gave these people the shocking half-baked pidgin English which I believe is a disgrace. That language is almost as bad as the language to which  Senator Sim  referred - that spoken by Manchester people. They speak with an accent which brands them as coming from a small parochial section of England. Various English accents brand speakers. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Davidson)  - Order! I remind  Senator O'Byrne  that we are debating the New Guinea Timber Agreement Act (Repeal) Bill 1972. 
We are discussing the Papua New Guinea Bill 1972. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT - I beg your pardon. 

 Papua New Guinea Bill 441 
I accept your apology.  Senator Sim  said that we must be tolerant. I do not think that the word 'tolerant' was. well chosen because tolerance is more or less paternalism. The New Guinea people have, chosen the word 'Niugini' in their pidgin spelling to describe themselves. There are all these hundreds of little ethnic groups that live there. They have not even known of one another's existence from one mountain ridge to another. They have engaged in their love life, their war life and their communications over the years in their own quiet way. I think that when someone writes the history of- New Guinea the Australian intervention perhaps will be looked at as a benevolent and beneficial interlude without any important effect on the eventual destiny of the New Guinea people. What we are doing is handing back to them what they really always had for themselves. We are making an Act of Parliament to hand back this power to choose the members of their own Parliament. I do not know whether the Westminster system can ever be fixed on to them. 
If we want something sewn up; we will send a Milliner. I am sure that New Guinea will find its own way of solving its own problems. It has survived to produce a virile and lovable race of people. Having met these people in their own environment and seen them up in the Highlands and various parts of New Guinea, I ' can say that they are lovable people. They are simple, humble, cooperative, friendly people. They will find a way. I think that what will possibly brush off on to the New Guinea people will be a cooperative socialist society. The only way in which they will ever solve their problems is to have a co-operative socialist society. I think that they lived in that way until the capitalist society came in and disintegrated them and tried to detribalise and exploit them.  Senator Sim  has conceded that we have been very good to them and that it has taken us a Jong time to become as good as we are and that it will take a long time for them to become as .good as we are. I am very pleased to support- 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT - 
Order!  Senator O'Byrne,  this is a matter of some seriousness and I would be pleased if you would treat it as such. 24  August  1972 

 - Mr Acting Deputy President, do you know the Bill that we are dealing with at the moment? 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT -Yes. 
In conclusion, I say this: We are taking part in a new phase of the history of Papua New Guinea. I think that it is opportune that we should hand this authority to the new New Guinea Parliament to enable it to design and direct its own destiny. I am certain that with or without us they will continue to thrive and to prosper, to love, to multiply and to hold their heads up as another race of people with equality under the sun. 
Is the AttorneyGeneral aware that a senior New South Wales police officer, Assistant Commissioner Baldwin, stated at a meeting of the New South Wales Aboriginal Advisory Council in Sydney on 14th August that he had been requested by the Commonwealth police to crack down on Aborigines to prevent them organising following the removal of the Aboriginal 'embassy' in Canberra? Would he verify or deny a report that in the past 2 weeks or so police  in Sydney have arrested over 40 Aborigines for a wide variety of alleged offences under the New South Wales Summary Offences Act? Will he, as Minister in charge of the Commonwealth police, make urgent inquiries to ascertain whether this is true? If such a request was made by the Commonwealth police to State police, what is the reason for it? Will he explain why police are exercising surveillance over the homes of certain Aborigines in the inner Sydney suburbs? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry. Can the Minister inform the Senate what steps, if any, have been taken to establish a world trade centre in Australia - in Canberra, Sydney or Melbourne? 
I direct a. question to the Attorney-General. In view of the mounting public concern about foreign ownership and control of Australian industries and resources, takeovers and dangerously high foreign capital inflow, can he tell the Senate which of the confusing indications given by the Prime Minister, the  Deputy  Prime Minister, the Treasurer and himself can be taken to be the Government's course of action in this vital area? Can he give the Senate any indication as to when this confusion will be cleared away and a real statement of Government policy brought down? 
Has the attention of the Attorney-General been drawn to information given by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition in the New South Wales Parliament that Lever and Kitchen Pty Limited and Colgate-Palmolive Pty Limited announced similar higher prices for soap powders on the same day and that neither of these companies is Australian owned, nor have they any Australian equity? Also is the Minister aware that 3 companies making vitreous china  -  R. Fowler Limited, Doulton Potteries Pty Limited and Armitage Ware Limited - each made similar price rises on the same day on 3 occasions since early last year resulting in price increases in these articles of approximately 36 per cent in that time? Will the AttorneyGeneral act to investigate fully the serious charges which would seem to show how continuing price collusion adds greatly to inflation despite the restrictive trade practices laws? 
 In fairness to  Senator Young  and the arrangements made tonight I must point out that the list of speakers was:  Senator Gair, Senator Hannan, Senator Bishop, Senator Bonner, Senator Negus  and  Senator Douglas  McClelland. The arrangement was made on the condition that  Senator Bonner  elected to speak for 10 minutes and that  Senator Negus  elected to speak for 10 minutes. 
Very well, 15 minutes. Now, what happened?  Senator Gair,  on the motion of the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton),  spoke for 41 minutes,  Senator Negus  spoke for 35 minutes and  Senator Bonner  spoke for 25 minutes. Therefore the arrangement fell down. The speakers had indicated to the Government Whip the time that they intended to speak but did not keep their word and  Senator Douglas  McClelland was excluded. However, another point must be kept in mind. We were engaged in a very important debate which was being broadcast to the public and during the entire evening there was only one  speaker  from the Opposition. We have to draw the attention of the Chair to this situation when it arises, particularly when there is only one  speaker  from the Opposition in a period of  3  hours. When arrangements arc made in the future - I hope they will be made - I hope that there will not be this monopoly of time when the proceedings of the Senate are being broadcast, particularly when the air is fairly highly charged with politics as it is at pre-election time and at Budget time. 
Since this matter has been raised and discussed in the Senate I want to pay a tribute to  Senator Carrick  for his gracious gesture in seeking to remedy the situation that developed. I regret that the Acting Leader of the Government  (Senator DrakeBrockman)  did not see the justice of our claim and of the gesture by  Senator Carrick.  I hope that we can come to some better arrangement when the proceedings are being broadcast. After all, proceedings here are broadcast only once a week. I think that also is wrong. The Senate should be given equal time with the House of Representatives, but that is another argument. The fact is that an Opposition  speaker  who was prepared and quite happy to speak in the Budget debate tonight was deprived from doing so because  Senator Gair, Senator Negus  and  Senator Bonner  spoke for a period longer than the time arranged by the Whips. 
Well, 'anticipated'. I think that in fairness to  Senator Young  and in order to justify my own position I should explain about the arrangements that we made. After all, these matters are in the hands of the Chair. We only give to the Chair a guideline of the arrangements we have made. But when it works out that only one Opposition  speaker  has the right to put the case for the Opposition, it is against the whole idea that the Opposition should have the same time on the air to present its case as does the Government. Tonight we have had 5 senators supporting the Government's case and only one Opposition  speaker  presenting the Opposition's case. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Why has the Government taken no action to exercise control over the inflationary influence of highbankinterest rates. 
Is the Government concerned with the spiralling prices of houses and the great burden that high interest rates place on young people establishing a home. 
lt is very frosty in the unemployment pool. 
The ACTING  PRESIDENT-  Order! When an honourable senator is called for the purpose of asking a question, he must ask his question and not make comments. 
J direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for External Territories. Although the Minister for External Territories has demonstrated commendable concern about  Mr Clunies-Ross  and his feudal control of the Cocos Islands, why has the Government allowed this intolerable situation to exist for the past 15 years? If fundamental requirements for more democracy and freedom were set out in a letter from the Government to  Mr Clunies-Ross  in 1968, why has the Government failed to ensure  Mr Clunies-Ross's  compliance with those directives so that the islanders could be freed from this so-called benevolent despotism? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for External Territories. In answer to a previous question the Minister was critical of the information given by commentators relating to the Cocos (Keeling) Islands. In order to keep the Senate informed, I ask: Is the plantation of  Mr Clunies-Ross  on Cocos (Keeling) Islands owned solely by him or is it controlled by a proprietary company? If the plantation is controlled by a proprietary company, will the Government urgently seek out and table the names and address of all registered shareholders in that company? Can details be obtained of the registered owners of the shipping company or companies which transport the copra from the planation? Will the Government obtain and table the names and addresses of all registered shareholders of any subsidiary or other company with interests in the control of the plantation? 
Has the AttorneyGeneral now been advised that  Mr Johnny  Golden Brown, an Aboriginal, won his case before the Full Bench of the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory concerning the ordinance removing Aborigines from the precincts of Parlia ment House and that the judgment was that this ordinance never took effect? In view of the Supreme Court's decision, will the Attorney-General now apologise lo  Mr Johnny  Golden Brown for the Government's bungling in relation to this matter? 
I direct my question to the Attorney-General. Is the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation using complex laser beam devices to eavesdrop on private conversations from distance as far as 2 miles,' and sometimes further? Do these devices pick up sound vibrations through windows? If so, what guarantee have members of Parliament, especially members of the Opposition, that their private conversations are not being recorded by laser beams focused from ASIO headquarters at a distance on the windows of their offices? Can the Attorney-General give an unequivocal assurance that such use has not been made and is not being made of those listening devices? Is their purchase at very high cost the reason why ASIO's budget rose so dramatically in the last financial year? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Civil Aviation. Will a Department of Civil Aviation court of inquiry be set in motion to investigate the circumstances surrounding the disappearance of the Tiger Moth aircraft carrying a pilot and a passenger from Hobart en route to Canberra? Will the Minister assure the Senate that the inquiry will have terms of reference sufficiently wide to investigate alleged events such as the breaking-in of the hangar housing the lost aircraft prior to its departure, threats made by telephone to the passenger prior to departure, and other unusual aspects of this tragic occurrence? 

 - Mr President, apropos of the statement you have just made relating to the incident on Tuesday night I draw the attention of the Senate  to  standing order 447 which states: 
Except so far as is expressly provided, these Standing Orders shall in no way restrict the mode in which the Senate may exercise and uphold its powers, privileges, and immunities. 
I draw attention to the Hansard report  of  the proceedings of Tuesday, 12th September, which shows that at the conclusion of the debate during which  Senator Georges  was discharged from the chamber you stated: 

 Senator Georges, I suspend you from the service of the Senate. The Usher of the Black Rod will conduct you from the chamber. 
I draw the attention of the Senate to the fact that this is a departure from normal procedure. Provision is made that when an honourable senator is suspended from the sitting of the Senate no amendment, adjournment or debate shall be allowed and such a motion shall be immediately put by the  President.  Standing order 441 points out that if an honourable senator is suspended, on the first occasion his suspension will be for the remainder of the day's sitting. But standing order 332 states: 
When a  Senator has  been suspended he shall not be permitted to enter the Chamber during the period of his suspension. If he does so enter the Chamber during such suspension, the  President  shall order the Usher of the Black Rod to remove him from the Chamber. 
Standing order 444 states: 
If any  Senator shall  wilfully disobey any Order of the Senate, he may be ordered to attend in his place, or, if he is under suspension, at the Bar, to answer for his conduct; and, unless his explanation be deemed satisfactory, the Senate may direct the Usher of the Black Rod to take such a  Senator into  custody. 
My objection is that we are departing from the specific standing orders when the  President  orders the Usher of the Black Rod virtually to take into custody a senator who has been discharged from the services of the Senate. Not only are the services of the Usher of the Black Rod being enlarged, but also the authority of the Senate is being usurped with  a  ruling like that. I would  like  this matter to be explained. 
Suspension of Standing Orders 
1 preface my question to the Attorney-General by drawing his attention to the answer given in another place yesterday by the Prime Minister to a question asked by  Mr Donald  Cameron about the use of laser beams. The question was whether the AttorneyGeneral's permission would be given for the use of laser beams, as is required in the case of telephone tapping. The Attorney-General, in his reply to a question asked by me in this chamber yesterday, said: 
. I can assure the Senate that, on the information available lo me. thai newspaper article is totally false. 
My question is: In view of the answer given by the Prime Minister to a question about the use by the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation of laser beam eavesdropping techniques, and taking into account the Attorney-General's answer to me yesterday, could I have a clarification of the issue? Could it not be inferred from the Prime Minister's reply that laser beam devices are at least under consideration for use by ASIO? Will the Attorney-General reconcile the Prime Minister's answer with his own answer to me yesterday? 
In view of the announcement that Trans-Australia Airlines has installed sophisticated electronic computer equipment which will make dramatic improvements in the booking arrangements for air flights, accommodation, freight, etc, will the Minister for Civil Aviation inform the Senate whether he has developed the proposal to use this equipment for booking facilities for the passenger services of the Australian National Line? 
This measure, as has been outlined by the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood),  relates to the provision of nursing hostels for aged people which is, as we all know, an urgent need in our community. It illustrates that the Government has moved very slowly. I say that because the Senate Select Committee on Medical and Hospital Costs in 1968 recommended that some urgent action be taken on this very matter. However, because of its importance to the community we find no reason to delay this measure. The Opposition wishes it a speedy passage. 
Is the AttorneyGeneral aware that the Croation Liberation Movement magazine 'Spremnost' makes reference in its columns to the Ustasha and has frequently written commendatory articles about its activities both in and out of Yugoslavia? Is he aware that the editor of this journal is a leader of the Croatian Liberation Movement in Australia and also a prominent member of the Liberal Party Migrant Advisory Council in New South Wales? Is the Minister also aware that another senior member of the Croatian Liberation Movement, a senior public servant,  Mr Kokic,  is employed by the Department of Labour and National Service Employment Counselling Service in Mebourne?  If so, what does the Minister propose to do about these people who are openly and actively associated with the Croatian Liberation Movement? 
Has the AttorneyGeneral seen a copy of the 'Sydney Morning Herald' of 6th July 1972 in which  Mr W.  D. Crowley, of the Victoria Police said that the police had seized explosives from a group of Croatian men who had tried to set up a training camp near Melbourne? A number of men had been questioned and police were still investigating. I ask also whether the Minister is aware that this report says that there was a Croatian group in Victoria opposed to the Yugoslav Government and consulate? Is that a canard? 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General. In view of the statement in another place by the Prime Minister to the effect that he will not oppose the setting up of a royal commission to investigate the activities of terrorists in this country, will the AttorneyGeneral state whether he will give his positive support to the Prime Minister's approach to this subject? I would also like to know whether the setting up of such a royal commission would be sub judice. 
What action does the Attorney-General propose to take regarding a strongly worded editorial in today's 'Age' attacking his policy of being soft on political extremism and equivocal on law and order? In view of the accusations that the Attorney-General was talking self-deluding nonsense by comparing infrequent union violence with the murderous activities of extremist Croatian nationals - 
Yesterday in the Senate I raised a question with the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  on the following lines: 
Is the Attorney-General aware that the Croatian Liberation Movement magazine 'Spremnost' makes reference in its columns to the Ustasha and has frequently written commendatory articles about its activities both in and out of Yugoslavia? Is he aware that the editor of this journal is a leader of the Croatian Liberation Movement in Australia and also a prominent member of the Liberal Party Migrant Advisory Council in New South Wales? ls the Minister also aware that another senior member of the Croatian Liberation Movement, a senior public servant,  Mr' Kokic,  is employed by the Department of Labour and National Service Employment Counselling Service in Melbourne? If so, what does the. Minister propose to do about these people who are openly and actively associated with the Croatian Liberation Movement? 
In replying to my question the Minister said that he was unaware of the matters to which I had referred. Later  Senator McManus  took exception to what I had said and asked the following question: 
I direct a question to the Attorney-General concerning the question asked previously by  Senator O'Byrne  in which he named persons who were in the employ of the Commonwealth, said that they were unworthy to be in that employ and asked for action to be taken against them. Because an important issue of civil rights is now involved, is not the appropriate action for the honourable senator to take in such a case to place the evidence before the Public Service Board for investigation first rather than to blacken the character of these persons in the Senate where the senator concerned has the protection of privilege and the people concerned have no power to defend themselves? 
In replying to  Senator McManus  the Minister said: 
I think that  Senator McManus's  question is indeed timely. It is very easy when feelings are aroused and there is a sense of apprehension in the community for people to fling about accusations on the basis that they are helping the situation in some way. I cannot believe that  Senator O'Byrne  is helping the situation if he is prepared to make accusations without evidence to back them.  His  interjection during the course of  Senator McManus's  question: 'They are throwing bombs around the place', highlights the problem to which  Senator McManus  directed attention. Everybody in this community has the right to have his reputation preserved. 
Finally I draw attention to  Senator Greenwood's  reply to  Senator Wheeldon  when he said: 
I believe that the appropriate course to take - 1 have endeavoured to follow it - is to ensure that this place ls not used for scandalous imputations under privilege. 
Tonight on television  Mr Lovokivic,  who according to tonight's programme on 'This Day To-night' is the editor of 'Spremnost', told his interviewer that he was a member for 10 to .14 years of the Liberal Party Migrant Advisory Committee. He was asked about the Croatian Liberation Movement. For the information of honourable senators I should like to read some extracts from the. handbook 'Hrvatskov Oslobodilackog Pokreta' which is the Slav language for Regulation Book of the Croatian Liberation Movement'. During yesterday's debate the name of  Mr Kokic  was mentioned and he also was confirmed by  Mr Lovokivic  as being a member of the senate or committee of the Croatian Liberation Movement. It was suggested that I was slandering these people, but the accusations that were made have now been proved to be correct. These people were members of this organisation and  Mr Kokic  is a member of the Public Service in Melbourne. He is also a member of the committee of the Croatian Liberation Movement to which I shall refer in a moment. I shall now proceed to read some extracts from the Ustasha handbook, the Regulation Book of the Croatian Liberation Movement 
This is the Regulation Book of the Croatian Liberation Movement and it is known as 'Hvratskog Oslobodilackog Pokreta' 
These are the words for Croatian Liberation Movement. 
They are. 
Let me read it to you. This was issued in Buenos Aires on 14th December 1967 by the  President  of the Croatian Liberation Movement,  Dr S.  Hefer,  deputy  fuhrer to Pavelic. Page 1 mentions the duties, aims and centres of the Croatian Liberation Movement and states that this movement is based on the testament of Fuhrer  Dr Ante  Pavelic and aims to centralise and reinforce the work of all belonging to the Croatian Ustasha movement. At page 2 it states that the centre of the Croatian Liberation Movement is always the place where the  President  resides unless the  President  appoints another place. It then mentions the principles of the Croatian Liberation Movement and states that they are based on the principles of the Croatian League of Rights, established by  Dr Ante  Starcevic, and also it puts into effect the principles of the Croatian Ustasha movement laid down by Fuhrer  Dr Ante  Pavelic. At page 3 it states that the Croatian Liberation Movement will collaborate with any movement which has not sinned against the Croatian Liberation Movement and is not working against it. At page 4 it states: 
Central bodies in different countries The totality of the Croatian Liberation Movement (HOP) is made up of. 
Associations, branches, groupings and representatives 
Alliance of Croatian United Youth of the World 
Central bodies in different countries 
Senators of Croatian Liberation Movement in different countries 
Presidium of HOP 
President of HOP. 
Every Croat and Croatian working with HOP must help HOP morally and materially. 
Page 5 states: 
Alliance of Croatian United Youth of the World is part of the main body of HOP and their directions come from the first congress which was held in Montevideo in 1961. 
Different Central Bodies. 
The organisational work ofHOP at present has 5 centres: 
States of South America 
USA 
Canada 
Australia 
Europe. 
At page 6 the following appears: 
As you see in the Croatian liberation fight and within HOP there exist the following central bodies: 
Central Committee of Croatian Associations, South America (SOHDJA) 
Main headquarters of Croatian Army in North America 
Central Committee of United Croats 
Central Committee of Croatian Associations Australia (SOHDA) 
Central Committee of Croatian Associations Europe (SOHDE). 
All these bodies inform the  President  of HOP about their work and they send him and the Central Committee regular reports. A special duty is to organise the membership and to collect the material means to achieve the aims of HOP. 
Page 7 states: 
Senate of HOP. 

 Mr Lovokivic and  Mr Kokic  are both members of this body and when this gentleman was interviewed tonight he said: We do not call it the senate; we call it the committee. There are 18 members in Australia.' 
 I shall give you the line-up in a moment. All these bodies inform the  President  of the Croatian Liberation Movement about their work and, as I said, they send him and the central committee regular reports. This document states that the Senate is the main organ of the Croatian Liberation Movement. It has 100 senators. The number may be increased with the permission of the  President  of the Croatian Liberation Movement. Senators are elected for 3 years. The Senate as a whole, in consultation with the  President  of the National Liberation Movement, draws up the general political and ideological policies of the Movement. 
On page 8 we are informed that every centre has 20 senators. On page 10 it is stated that the  President  of the Movement has his own deputies and that they are appointed from the senators. They perform the duties assigned to them by the  President.  The number of deputies in Cabinet at present is 7 and this may be increased on the recommendation of the Central Committee., All the deputies do their duty on the basis of the testament and views of Fuhrer  Dr Ante  Pavelic. 
Page 12 is headed 'Offices of the Croatian Liberation Movement.' It states: 
Organisational work and connections with members helping Croatian Liberation Movement. 
Correspondence office. 
Supervising office - supervising all organisations and all Croatian migrants in the foreign world. 
Financial office - dealing with the financial affairs of Croatian Liberation Movement. 
Military office - all the duties and directions from Croatian Liberation Headquarters are executed. 
Croatian Intelligence Service - collection of all intelligence material necessary for the Croatian fight, including spreading news through the Press and wireless stations. 
Under the heading 'Discipline and Honorary Court' at. page 14, we read: 
All members of the Croatian Liberation Movement must be under strict discipline, do their duty and honour this regulation book. Everyone of the centres has an honorary court of 3 members which deals with anybody who betrays the work and aims of the Movement. Beside these courts on each continent there is a central court which has 7 members, one of whom must be a professional lawyer. 
Page 16 records that the regulation booklet was approved by the  President,  of the Croatian Liberation Movement,  Dr S.  Hefer, Buenos Aires, on 14th December 1967. 
I turn again to the interview tonight on This Day Tonight' with  Mr Lovokivic.  He said that he did not know of the existence of a military office in Australia. He admitted that  Mr Kosic  was a member of the Croatian Liberation Movement Committee. He said that the organisation upholds all ideas not only of that organisation but even the Croatian Peasants Party, the Croatian Party of Rights and all Croatian political parties. It includes the members and the former members of the Ustasha organisation. 
 He said: 'It includes the members and the former members of the Ustasha organisation'. But  Senator Greenwood  denied that there was any such connection.  Mr Lovokivic  was asked about violence in this interview and he said: 
It all depends from which point you look at it. First of all violence quite naturally gives you in response another violence. If the Ustasha movement was following these means, it means another violence must have preceded that particular one. 
These are the words transcribed from a tape taken of the interview tonight.  Mr Lovokivic  was asked whether violence was justified. He said- 
The interview was on television for everyone to see. In response to that question he stated: 
Not justifies it - that was the only probable means and way of expression at that particular time. 
He also proudly stated that he had been a member of the Liberal Party Migrant Advisory Committee since its inception some 10 years or 14 years ago. Any national representative could become a member of the Liberal Party without being forced or asked to join that Party. Then he was asked about funds. He was asked: 
Would some of the money collected here be used to help the guerrilla fighters inside Croatia? 
Collected in Australia. That was the question he was asked. He replied: 
I would not go so far as to say there are guerrillas in Croatia because that expression could be interpreted wrongly but I would say that money helps the Croats at home to raise their voice for liberation of the country,. 
-Look, let us deal with that another night. This is a most important issue. Yesterday, the AttorneyGeneral agreed with  Senator McManus  that 1 had used the Senate to defame these people.. I had asked a straightforward question. I did not mention that both these persons were public servants. I repeat what I asked the Minister yesterday as reported at page 894 of Hansard. I asked:  ls the Attorney-General aware that the  Croatain  Liberation Movement magazine 'Spremnost' makes reference in its columns to the  Utasha  and has frequently written commendatory articles about its activities both in and out of Yugoslavia? 
That oan be checked at any time. 
No, I have not. You answered this question. My question continued: 
Is he aware that the editor of this journal is the leader of the Croatian Liberation movement in Australia - 
This was confessed tonight. 
It is not the same question. You did not ask that it be placed on the notice paper and I did not place it on the notice paper. 
Senior O'BYRNE - I did not place it on the notice paper and the Minister did not ask me to do so. He gave me an answer to the question. My question continued: 
Is he aware that the editor of this journal is the leader of the Croatian Liberation Movement in Australia and also a prominent member of the Liberal Party Migrant Advisory Council in New South Wales? Is the Minister also aware that another senior member of the Croatian Liberation Movement, a senior public servant,  Mr Kokic,  is employed by the Department of Labour and National Service Employment Counselling Service in Melbourne? 

 Senator McManus accused me then of defaming these people. I asked a question but I did not expect the Attorney-General to answer it because he has been evading and avoiding all these pertinent questions which have been asked of him. For some reason or other, he does not seem to wish to involve himself properly in the serious nature of this terrorism- 
Most people are concerned that in Sydney on a Saturday morning- 
There were not shreds of evidence but there were shreds of people's bodies lying on the streets of Sydney. 
That is what we want to know. We want the AttorneyGeneral to use all his energies and his facilities to find out who these terrorists are. Today, for instance, the Attorney-General was asked a reasonable question by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy).  The Leader of the Opposition asked whether the Attorney-General would make available some reward to seek to bring about the apprehension of the people responsible for the bombing outrage in Sydney. The Attorney-General said that this was a most irresponsible thing for the Leader of the Opposition to suggest. But the Attorney's own colleague in the New South Wales Parliament this afternoon said: 'We must apprehend these terrorists. We, the State of New South Wales, offer a reward of $20,000'. Is he irresponsible or is the Attorney-General irresponsible when he acts and replies in the way in which  he  does to these questions for which we have every justification to ask? We want to find out why this secret organisation is working here and why these people who have been given Australian hospitality are forming these cells here from which arise these hatreds and bitternesses which had their birth in the backwoods of Croatia and parts of Serbia and Yugoslavia. We know that this area of Europe has been the hotbed of European discontent. 
We know that because history tells us. Look at Austria and Serbia. Where did the First World War commence? It started in Serbia. Franz Archduke Ferdinand of Austria was assassinated in the area of which I am speaking. That is where the First World War started. The point I am making is that  our  efforts are directed towards trying to get the Attorney-General to be more positive about investigating not only the outrages which are going on in this country such as the bombings, burnings, threatenings and all these things- 
It would be people with a mentality like the honourable senator who would burn them down. It would be childish people, subnormal people. However, in my view the AttorneyGeneral, whatever his purpose, seems to be covering up. I believe that the tie-up is with the Australian Democratic Labor Party which, according to my information, complained about the Yugoslav flag being flown in a public place in Cooma. The DLP conference condemned the flying of this flag and said that the Government should not tolerate it because it was an alien flag. This indicates that the DLP is hostile to the present Yugoslav Government. This gives encouragement to the fanatical people who have come here and taken an oath of allegiance to Australia but who are paying allegiance to an international secret organisation. If the huge organisation which is employed by the Attorney-General does not have the ability to sort out the people who are in this secret body then the people in the list of 100 names which the Ambassador gave to the Prime, Minister  (Mr McMahon)  yesterday should he asked to make a declaration that they are in no way associated with the secret organisation. They should be given the option of becoming decent Australian citizens or they should be sent home. This is the penalty which people who come to Australia as our guests should face, even though they become naturalised, if they commit so many of these acts which are completely foreign to the Australian way of life. 
This  is  your defence. 
The honourable senator would not support a reward but he would in relation to property. When some nut said to the managing director of Qantas Airways Ltd: T want $50,000' the managing director was so excited that  he  wrote down an extra nought and gave $500,000. People do not realise  this. The 
Government was prepared to give a reward to apprehend this person. This is something which is not generally .known but the tape recording which was taken and presented at the court revealed the. demand made by Brown was for only $50,000 but the managing director was so excited when he wrote the figure down that he put an extra nought on the end. The Government gave a reward to recover that money and it did recover it. But here are people who will not be compensated. I have not heard any honourable senator on the Government side asking a colleague in the Senate about compensation for those people who have been maimed and cut about by these explosions. What are they going to do for the rest of their lives? There has been no thought for them at all. The Government is always, defending the saying: 'Prove who did it,' This is always the attitude of Government supporters. But I would also like to know why the Attorney-General is in his funk-hole in relation to going on to television. Why is it that the media has been trying to have  Senator Greenwood  go on to television? Usually if it suits him he is the first one to go on. 
Did Hawke! The honourable senator has a queer idea. I do not know what his view is of being done over, if one of the participants was a Hawke, Greenwood was a sparrow. I ask the Attorney-General why it is that he is absolutely scared to go on television? All the people are asking him. The Press is asking him simple questions on matters of public importance but he goes for his life. He will not have a look at them. That shows that he is covering up. 
Yes. he is chasing Croats. 1 think the television people wanted to ask him a few questions as Minister in charge of our police and as a Minister who is always talking about law and order. This is what is exercising the minds of people throughout Australia: who is safe in this country when there are elements like this in the community who can plant bombs and carry out guerilla and commando tactics for which they are being trained in Australia? Why does not the 
Attorney-General go back to the newspaper record a little bit? He should look at some of the headlines such as: 'Police Foil Croatians training camp plan.' I am not going to develop that. Here I have another one which states: 'Farmers claim convoys move at night.' 
It is 6th July 1972. Another headline appeared in the Hobart Mercury' and it stated: 'Claims terrorists train in Australia'. One in the 'Australian' of 7th July states:  'His  aim - to get war leaders and train recruits.' Another one in the 'Canberra Times' of 5th July states: Raiders "trained in Australia" '. What is the Minister doing about all this? Are all these people conspiring against him? Have they all plucked some idea out of their minds just to embarrass the AttorneyGeneral or are they concerned about the well-being of Australia? I ask. the AttorneyGeneral why he will not appear in front of television. Will he answer that simple question? 
All this week they have been trying to get the AttorneyGeneral on. television. 
I do know.  I  started off to point out to  Senator McManus  that his friend, if he is his friend,  Mr Kokic  in Melbourne who is employed in the Commonwealth Employment Service is a member of the senate or committee of the Croatian Liberation Movement. I have outlined the tentacles of this movement which spreads through three or four continents. It is an organisation of bitterness, hatred, anger and aggressiveness which exists throughout the world and which is being imported into this country. The biggest penalty which could be imposed on these people would be to send them back home. I want the Attorney-General to start on that process. We have deported others who have been criminals in this country. We have deported individuals. There is plenty of precedent for deportation. I believe that we have to root out these people lock, stock and barrel and send them back home to their hill-billy land in the woodlands of Croatia. I hope that they enjoy the rest of their life there. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service. What measures has the Government in mind to meet the critical situation that will arise in the near future when the present number of unemployed, 120,000, will be considerably inflated by the number of school leavers coming onto the labour market? Does this lack of planning by the Government relating to the future employment of the youth of Australia exacerbate the growing disenchantment of youth in the Government and its institutions? 
My question is directed to the AttorneyGeneral. Is the AttorneyGeneral able to state how many Commonwealth police are involved directly in investigations intolast Saturday's terrorist bombing attacks in Sydney? Have the full facilities of the Commonwealth police been offered to the New South Wales police? Will he inform the Senate whether the apprehension of the terrorists in New South Wales is receiving the top priority of bis Commonwealth police? 
The Opposition considers that this Bill increases opportunities for young people to obtain a home, and we are in favour of that. We have pressed always for the expansion of such opportunities for young people. The conditions relating to the maximum value of a home and the maximum grant have been extended to apply also to credit unions. We have been press ing for these things for a number of years. The Government has accepted our view. The conditions for approval of credit unions are acceptable, as are other things contained in the Bill. The savings held in an approved credit union by members who have contracted to buy or build a home will be acceptable for the purpose of the homes savings grant. All of the proposals announced by the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  are acceptable to us. We believe that this Bill represents an advance on previous policy. Its aim is to help people obtain finance for a home in this day and age of galloping inflation. We do not want to deprive any young people who can benefit from this revision of previous legislation. We do not oppose the Bill anl wish to give it a speedy passage through the Senate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
by leave -  Mr Acting Deputy President,  appreciate your ruling and your explanation on this matter, but I think that we are making things difficult for ourselves. For the last 70 years this Senate has been able to get by with having things incorporated in Hansard without their being scrutinised by the  President.  1 do not think that the  President,  who is one of our equals, should have any discriminatory power to supervise or to have surveillance over the business of the Senate as to whether things are incorporated in Hansard. When the Senate decides that something will be incorporated in Hansard, it should be incorporated in Hansard without there being any supervision from some other person who imposes himself as the arbiter or the censor. 
am objecting to this precedent being created whereby someone has to delay the business of the Senate in order to give his view on whether something should be incorporated in Hansard. Honourable senators assembled should be able to judge for themselves whether they should accept or refuse the incorporation of something in Hansard. I would have liked the  President  to be present when I expressed these views. I object to this new procedure which is being introduced into the Senate under which someone sets himself up as the boss. The  President  is an equal of all of us. He has been appointed by us to be an arbiter but he is also an equal. I do not think he has any right whatsoever to peruse some thing and delay the business of the Senate while he exercises his judgment on what should or should not be incorporated in Hansard. 
I want to put on record my disapproval of this growing practice whereby someone establishes himself as being the censor of what goes into Hansard. Things have been incorporated in Hansard for a long time and Hansard has been good or bad reading. The. Senate has proceeded along its way. 1 do not think that this practice should be accepted, whereby someone suddenly has decided that he has to peruse all material that is incorporated. 1 am expressing my disapproval and I do not think that it should go on any longer. I hope that you,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  will not carry on the practice while you are in the chair. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Wood)  - Honourable senators, I do not want to engage in a debate on this matter. I just set out what I understand to be the position which arose from a certain incident. I do not think that any  President  would veto anything that was of a reasonable character. 
What is reasonable? 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT  - We have to recognise the fact that if something is incorporated in Hansard when somebody asks for it to be incorporated without any other honourable senator having the opportunity of seeing it, there can be risks. There was an incident recently in which I do not think  Senator O'Byrne  would have agreed to the statement being incorporated in Hansard if he had seen it. J understand that the  President  has the power to excise from Hansard anything that he feels runs counter to the decencies in the publication of Hansard. I am not the  President,  and I am just giving to honourable senators what has been given to me by others. I feel that if the  President  has power to eliminate from Hansard things of an objectionable character it is quite in keeping that he should have some authority to view what is sought to be incorporated in Hansard without the material being viewed by anybody else. I do not want there to be a debate on this question. I thought that I would clarify the position for honourable senators so that they would know. The  President  has power in regard to publication involving technicalities and things of that nature and I think we must recognise that nobody will be unreasonable about matters such as this. 

 Senator O'BYRNE (Tasmania) - by leave - 1 just want to make it quite certain that I am opposed to the procedure under which the business of the Senate can be delayed while the  President  peruses something. He is not a quick reader, and a lot of Presidents have not been quick readers; some of them could only read. I do not think that the Senate should accept this principle whereby the business of the Senate should be delayed so that the  President  can be the arbiter and the censor. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- 
Whom would you suggest should do it? 
We should get leave of the Senate itself. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- 
How would the Senate know what it was? 
It does not matter. The  President  has the prerogative afterwards to delete it from Hansard. 
It is not nonsense. Things have been incorporated in Hansard for 70 years and there is nothing in Hansard to which anyone could take exception. I strongly oppose the creation of a precedent whereby the  President  becomes the censor of what goes into Hansard. Hansard is a record of what goes on in the Parliament. Someone says the 4-letter word 'fuck' should not be in Hansard. This is the point I am making: It is an accepted word. I am just saying what is happening in society today. 
What rubbish. You have been using it yourself for years. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT - 
I ask  Senator O'Byrne  to withdraw that remark. 
What remark? 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT - 
That remark you have just made. 
All right, 1 will withdraw it. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Civil Aviation. Does the Department of Civil Aviation stipulate which publications can be sold at the bookstall at the Canberra Airport terminal? 
I preface my question, which is directed to the AttorneyGeneral, by pointing out that the Victorian Soccer Federation, in a conciliatory gesture, has negotiated for a soccer team known as Croatia to change its name to Batman in an effort to reduce tensions arising out of ethnic differences between former European migrants. I ask the Attorney-General: Is it an offence under the Commonwealth Crimes Act to urge or encourage the violent overthrow of a sovereign state such as Yugoslavia? If so, is it not a fact that a number of documents, including the newspaper 'Spremnost', circulated within the Croatian community in Australia have done this? Is any action under the Crimes Act contemplated by the Attorney-General in this matter? 
asked the Minister  representing the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
Will the Government introduce a Bill to amend the Commonwealth Electoral Act, so as to obviate the necessity for candidates at Federal elections making a statutory declaration of moneys expended by them, or on their behalf, which sum, if it exceeds the maximum prescribed in the Act, could result in a perjury charge being laid against them. 

 Senator COTTON- The Minister for the interior has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Commonwealth Electoral Bill which the Minister for the Interior presented to Parliament on 31st March 1971 contains provisions for the repeal of those Sections requiring the submission of returns of electoral expenses. 
 My question is directed to the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Health. Will the Government repudiate the action of the Western Australian division of the Liberal Party in sending a letter to general practitioners asking then to condemn Labor Party health proposals to their patients? Will the Minister support the comments which were made last night by the  President  of the Australian Medical Association who strongly criticised th* Western Australian Liberals for their action and agreed that Labor's health proposals did not constitute nationalisation of the medical profession? 
It indicates the cynicism of the Australian Democratic Labor Party and the way this Parliament has been degraded by the presence of its members here that they pose as being on the Opposition side and take their turn in the debate as being in Opposition when on every occasion they stand up and support the Government policy. I believe that they have the audacity and temerity to parade in front of this Parliament and in front of the people of Australia that they are Opposition. We know very well where their interests are. The Democratic Labor Party has given notice of intention to propose a motion, which has been read to us, although the Australian Labor Party specifically has said that the Government has failed to take action to protect Australian employment and industry in respect of the supply of the Moomba-Sydney pipeline. 
The Democratic Labor Party talks about having a full inquiry by the Standing Committee on Trade and Industry in order to get the full facts. The Senate Select Committee on Off-shore Petroleum Resources examined this matter for 3 years. We knew that the situation would arise. But in making those points I just wanted to dismiss the meanderings of the previous  speaker.  I want to ask the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  what he himself is doing. Today he asked for time to enable him to get answers to our proposition. He said that notice was given by  Senator Murphy  of his intention to debate this matter only a few minutes before the Senate met this morning, and he wanted an interval of some hours to enable himself to get some background information. But what the Minister came up with was a lot of incoherent rhetoric and he failed to show any proof that the Government had taken any action to protect Australian employment and industry in the supply of the MoombaSydney pipeline. 
The Minister has performed a complete somersault. I remember quite well the occasion when the Minister was a back bencher. Before dinner he put up a very strong case about the oil industry, the discovery of Bass Strait oil, the CommonwealthState agreement and all the other legislation that followed from the secret agreements that were made by the late Prime Minister,  Mr Harold  Holt, and Henry Bolte, the old stager from Victoria, in concert with the biggest oil monopoly in the world today. We knew very well that these secret agreements were made. However,  Senator Wright,  in all his righteousness, took exception to it. However, it took the dinner period for him to change his mind.  Senator Wright  had a committee set up to investigate the oil industry, and it took the Committee a number of years to investigate it. He was the first  chairman  of the Committee. He was very promptly given a portfolio which removed him from the area of being a critic to becoming a supporter of this whole racket that is being sold to the Australian people. 
The PR  PRESIDENT  - Order!  Senator, you  are treading on dangerous ground because there is an imputation that  Senator Wright  was improperly removed from the services of the Senate in the pursuit of promotion. I think that is an unqualified remark and I am just drawing your attention to it. 
Well, you are putting that construction on it. 
I would like to continue with my remarks. 
This was just another miserable Democratic Labor Party ploy. Members of the Democratic Labor Party knew very well that their resolution had exactly the same intent as ours. 
This was typical Democratic Labor Party hypocrisy. Members of that Party knew that the wording of their resolution was the same as ours. However, I am wasting good time in talking about this. 
What I want to point out is that the essence of  Senator Murphy's  submission is that the people of Australia want to know what is going on. They want to know who owns the oil of Australia. Also they want to know the answers. Are we to be put in pawn? Are we to sell so blatantly our resources on which the future of Australia will depend? Gas and liquid petroleum are the fuels of the future; they are the power of the future. Australia is so fortunately placed in having these vast resources. Only in this morning's newspaper attention was drawn to the extra millions of cubic feet of gas that have been discovered on the north-west shelf and a new discovery at Gidgealpa-Moomba. These matters are involved in this debate. Yet, people beyond Australia's control, such as Delhi over in Dallas, are wondering whether they should be in on the bargain and whether they are getting enough out of it. What right have they to influence the future of Australia? And why should we be standing up in this place defending them? 
On the other hand we have the dispute between the Australian Gas Light Co. and the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd. This dispute goes back to the veiled negotiations over the supply of Bass Strait natural gas to Sydney. I remember quite well how Henry Bolte and his colleagues were trying to- 
The honourable senator, in leaving the chamber, is doing a Bolte himself. But these negotiations fell down in 1970. The Australian Gas Light Co. would not accept a price level of around 3c a therm which Esso-BHP was getting in Victoria. If the Victorian people had only known the truth, they would have realised that they were being held by the throat by Esso-BHP and  Sir Henry  Bolte and all his cohorts and colleagues in Victoria. The people were being charged 3c a therm for this resource that had been discovered as an extra. The hydrocarbons that were discovered made a most pofitable enterprise. Esso-BHP was fortunate that it was able to discover or was directed by the Bureau of Mineral Resources and other people who had done the investigatory work to find that the oil was there, that as well as hydrocarbons it also had gas. This was presented on a plate to EssoBHP, It was told that it was an economically viable proposition for it to produce hydrocarbons, or crude oil, and that gas was an extra. Yet the Victorian Government has imposed 3c a therm on the distributors of gas in Victoria. 
This is the important point. The Victorian Government insisted that New South Wales had to buy gas at this excessive price. The Australian Gas Light Co. said that it just could not impose this price on the New South Wales people. It said: "You might be mugs in Victoria but we are not going to fall for the same confidence trick in New South Wales'. The Australian Gas Light Co. then made other arrangements with the people in South Australia at Moomba-Gidgealpa to see whether they could prove their resources there. These resources gradually have been proved. The discovery of new resources there, which was announced yesterday, has made possible the continuity of supply to New South Wales, the biggest area for the consumption of natural gas in Australia. 
The pipeline that will be built to connect the South Australian field to New South Wales has been made necessary through no fault of the New South Wales people. Because of a cunning type of business arrangement and the activities of Victoria the people of New South Wales will have to build a 760-mile pipeline to bring gas to Sydney. It is here that revenue is coming in. I would like to quote from an article which appeared in a newspaper. It stated: 
Esso-BHP regarded the Victorian level as the minimum acceptable, however, and were also bound to lower the price to Victorian distributors under their Victorian agreements if they sold Bass Strait gas cheaper elsewhere. 
The sudden spurt of discoveries in mid-1970 which turned the Cooper Basin into a likely major gas field, led AGL to switch its gas negotiations instead to the group of companies around Santos Ltd, Delhi International Oil Co. and Burmah Oil. 
A deal was agreed on last year, pending the Burmah-oriented group proving up a minimum of 2 trillion cubic feet of recoverable reserves. 
The deadline for this has been extended 3 times and is now expected next month, as the Burmah group have run into a variety of difficulties - including last year's floods . . . 
The whole episode has led to extremely bad feelings between Esso-BHP-AGL. 
Herein lies the problem which we are discussing. Because of this jealousy and bitterness which has developed, AGL is displacing BHP which has an interest in oil and steel and AGL is giving the contract to a Japanese company. 
Absolutely; that is well expressed - the negro in the woodpile. Our Australian workers could be employed in an industry which is quite capable of producing 30-inch, 34-inch or whatever diameter pipeline and could be tooled up in sufficient time if there were a policy along those lines to supply this pipeline. In Queensland BHP has been able to supply the pipeline from Roma down to Brisbane. It has been able to supply the pipeline from Bass Strait across to its refineries in Victoria. The pipeline has been supplied by BHP from Dongara to Perth in Western Australia. Just because of pique and spite between these 2 giant companies we are losing this contract. 
It is my belief that this is the responsibility of the Australian Government which has authority and must assume authority over these matters, even though it has been able to pass the buck in the CommonwealthState agreement regarding off-shore licences and the many other anomalies in this oil industry setup. But it has a responsibility here to see not only that we retain the fullest interest in our natural resources but also that whatever benefit comes from them should flow to the Australian people. The pipeline system eventually will tie up the area at Mereenie in Palm Valley in the centre of Australia, the Moomba-Gidgealpa area and the north-west shelf area, like a railroad system or any other system of transportation. I am given to understand that this could mean between 10,000 and 15,000 miles of pipeline. Does the Government mean to say that when the first crisis comes and Tubemakers of Australia Ltd are temporarily unable to quote for this contract because of a sudden change in the diameter of the pipes which are required it can be deprived of the potential that it should have here as an Australian company, employing Australian labour. It should be able to quote for this vast projected pipeline concept which we have in front of us. 
I am not certain of the shareholding of Tubemakers or of BHP. I understand that Tubemakers is a subsidiary of BHP. I do not know what the shareholding of BHP is, except that it is reputedly an Australian company. 
There is no doubt whatever that there are no Australian shareholders in the Japanese company. Not only is there a lack of Australian shareholders but also there is the principle of displacement of the potential for Australian industry. We are just in the teething stages or becoming an industrial nation. We are fortunate enough to have found these new natural resources. We see them obviously fading away from us because ownership of the gas resources are in the hands of people in Dallas, Texas, 10.000 miles away. The direction of the policy as to where our fuel goes is in the hands of overseas people. To me this is intolerable. It is intolerable that any government should allow this to happen. But then we come around to the real facts of life. We are supplying our iron ore to Japan which is sending it back here and displacing Australian workers. This is absolutely terrible. 
Will the AttorneyGeneral inform the Senate whether it is a fact that the former Commonwealth SolicitorGeneral,  Sir Kenneth  Bailey, condemned as a most irregular procedure the  purchase  of 6 DC3 aircraft by the Department of Foreign Affairs from Jetair Australia Ltd? Did  Sir Kenneth  advise that the Foreign Affairs Department had no authority to make the offer to Jetair that it would purchase the aircraft concerned? Why was the purchase carried through after such comment from such an authority as  Sir Kenneth  Bailey? 
I support this Bill because I believe that sooner or later the Parliament will be placed in the position where it will have to legislate for 18-year-olds to be given the right to vote. The recent decision of the 
High Court of Australia put this responsibility onto the Parliament. The High Court found that the Constitution did not allow it to make the decision and it placed the decision fairly and squarely on the shoulders of the Parliament. I want to refer to the first paragraph of the amendment moved by  Senator Byrne  on behalf of the Australian Democratic Labor Party. He said: 
While the extension of the franchise to young people of the age of 18 years and under 21 years will provide for a more accurate reflection of the relevant opinion of electors . . . 
I think that sums up the whole debate. The Democratic Labor Party spokesman admitted that this Bill will provide for 'a more accurate reflection of the relevant opinion of electors'. That is our policy. We have taken the initiative. Some Government senators, including  Senator Marriott  who has just made a valuable contribution, appear to support the principle involved in this legislation. Not only would I like to see a vote for the 18-year-olds, I would like to see also a vote tonight on this measure I feel that a lot has already been said in support of the Bill and nothing substantive has been said against it. I would like to see the Bill proceed to a vote as soon as possible. 

 Senator BYRNE (Queensland)-  Mr Acting Deputy President,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Wilkinson)  - Does the honourable senator claim to have been misrepresented? 
Has the AttorneyGeneral seen the reference in today's 'Australian' to the fact that Dymphna Cusack, the grand old lady of Australian literature who spent some years following the trail of the Ustasha through Yugoslavia, concluded that 'if a government won't acknowledge a terrorist organisation's presence it must be said to be conniving with it'? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The Minister has explained to the Senate that the whole Jetair business was a technical error or breach of a Treasury regulation. I ask the Minister: Is it not a fact that the documents tabled yesterday in the Senate show that the purchase of those aircraft caused great concern to senior public servants in 4 departments? Did not the  Deputy  Secretary of the Department of Foreign Affairs,  Mr Shann,  say it was very disturbing to see the details of the orders which were given to him by the Secretary of the Department of Supply? Further, did a senior officer of the Department of Supply, in a minute to  Mr Cooley,  ask what grounds there were for restricting the purchase to Jetair and what grounds there were for considering $275,000 a reasonable price? Does the Minister believe therefore that this is mere trivia and that the transaction was a technical error under the Treasury regulation? 
ls the Minister for Health aware that one of Australia's most respected health administrators,  Dr Sidney  Sax. has just published a book in which he says that Australia's health care systems, including the national health scheme, have reached a serious if not critical situation?  Dr Sax  has called for a total reexamination of the Government's role in health care. Does the Minister intend to initiate such a procedure on the needs, organisation and efficiency of Australian health care systems? 
I have not yet read  Dr Sax's  book, but I will certainly do so as soon as possible and I will arrange for it to be the subject of a study by my Department.  Dr Sax  is a senior officer of the New South Wales Department of Health. Therefore his statements, as reported in the Press, concerning desirable developments in the field of health care warrant our close attention. That is axiomatic. I will consult with  Mr Jago,  who is the Minister for 
Health in New South Wales and to whom presumably  Dr Sax  presented his book, as  Mr Jago  virtually is  Dr Sax's  ministerial head, concerning the attitude of his Government to the views expressed by  Dr Sax. 
asked the Attorney- 
General, upon notice: 
Did  Lever  and Kitchen Pty Ltd and ColgatePalmolive Pty Ltd announce on the same day similar increases in the price of soap powders. 
Are the companies referred to in (1) wholly foreign owned. 
Did R. Fowler Ltd, Doulton Australia Ltd and Armitage Ware Ltd. manufacturers of vitreous chinaware simultaneously increase the price of their products by a similar amount on 3 occasions since early 1971, by approximately 36 per cent. 
Will the Attorney-General take action to investigate the apparent simultaneous and collusive price rises referred to in (1) and (2) which, if they occurred did so despite the provisions of the restrictive trade practices law. 

 Senator GREENWOOD- The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
I am not aware of the particular announcements the Honourable  Senator has  in mind. However, publications circulating in the grocery trade noted similar price increases in February and July of this year for some soap powders marketed by Lever and Kitchen Pty Ltd and Colgate-Palmolive Pty Ltd. 
All the shares in the 2 companies, except 100 shares in Lever and Kitchen Pty Ltd are foreign-owned. 
and (4) The investigation of agreements and practices that are examinable under the Restrictive Trade Practices Act 1971 is a matter for the Commissioner  of  Trade Practices. The action that the Commissioner has been taking with respect to agreements relating to the prices of vitreouschina sanitory ware is indicated in paragraph 3.28 of the Commissioner's Fifth Annual Report. 
Has the AttorneyGeneral been advised that the Yugoslav Government has asked the United States Government to curb Croatian terrorists because of its concern that the Croatian Liberation Movement may gain world wide recognition and that the Yugoslav Government also has asked the Nixon Administration to suppress Croatian publications openly advocating revolution and the assassination of President Tito? Will '.he Attorney-General inquire into whether the newspaper produced in Australia, the 'Hrvatska Borba or 'Croatian Struggle', contravenes the Crimes Act by advocating the armed overthrow of a government recognised by Australia? Also, in view of the Yugoslav action in relation to the United States of America, is it still believed that the Croatian Liberation Movement is a myth in Australia? 
Was the Minister for Works exercising his ministerial authority when he demanded that a letter relating to what is known as the Jetair affair be published by the Hobart 'Mercury' and suggested that if this were not done 'it would be the worse for you'? Was the Minister not threatening and intimidating the editor of a newspaper, a practice which is becoming far too prevalent in these days of hijacking, blackmail and violence? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Works. Because he implied that my previous question was incorrect, will he deny that by telephone to the editor of the Hobart 'Mercury' he said that if his letter were not published it will be the worse for you'? 
I enter this debate to make a few points relating to the best use of each type of forest product. This Softwood Forestry Agreements Bill relates to an agreement between the Commonwealth and the States in connection with softwood forests and it also brings within its rather wide sweep the clearing of present forest land which often carries sub-standard timber. If one travels along the higher rainfall areas of our eastern coastal belt and also of Western Australia one finds that the clearing of land to plant pinus radiata or pinus insignis necessitates the felling of considerable amounts of eucalypts which are then bulldozed into rows and burnt. This is part of the traditional process. For 100 years this policy has been carried out in my State of Tasmania, and the same applies to the other States. 
In legislation such as this I would like to see the Commonwealth's interest directed towards the enormous wastage which occurs of this tremendously important natural resource of timber and forest products. Further use should be made of the second tirade timber which is bulldozed or felled for the purposes of softwood planting. Perhaps we can speak with a certain amount of authority because Tasmania has developed an industry which is increasingly exploiting the forests products which are not specifically used for sawmilling or for the building and furniture trades. I refer to the pulpwood industry, the paper making industry and associated industries such as hard board manufacture. I wonder whether honourable senators realise that of the, total amount of timber available for lumber in Australia approximately 50 per cent, and in some cases 60 per cent, of the log is unused? Around every sawmill we find quite considerable piles of waste timber. Of course in the olden days some of it went into firing the steam engines which drove the saws and other equipment. But now with the introduction of the combustion engine this timber is either burnt in the furnace or is carted away and dumped. 

 Senator Webster referred to cellulose. This is the end fibre of either the eucalypt or the pine tree. It is there that our great natural resource is condensed into something of world value. If we look at the statistics we see the amount of pulp, that it is still necessary to import into Australia from the Scandinavian countries and, I understand, even from Brazil. Because of the nature of the fibre of the pine tree, it is an important ingredient in the manufacture of writing paper and other products of the paper industry. Of course, an overall plan for the planting of softwoods is essential for the balance of our economy, particularly our paper industry. 
Australia is the worst off of all continents in regard to timber resources. It is endowed with smaller timber resources per square mile than is any other continent. Therefore, we have to be very much aware of and alert to the needs of this industry, and do everything we can to develop and expand it because of its ever growing importance for man's use. Also, economically it is essential that we get the fullest use from this industry. It is in relation to this point that I want to try to impart to the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  and the Government - I am sure that the Minister is aware of this problem - the need for some encouragement to be given to the sawmill'! scattered throughout the country to install a chipping machine. The cost of this machine could be written off in a short period, the products could be sold tax free or some other incentive could be provided to bring into use the 30 per cent to 40 per cent of waste that eventually becomes cellulose which at present not only is not being used but also is often an eyesore around timber mills. 
That is the main point that I wish to make on this matter. Now I refer to the amendment that has been returned from the House of Representatives. Like  Senator Webster,  I believe that this is a non political matter. It is a matter of great national importance that we should be directing our attention to this Commonwealth-State agreement on forestry. The States, because of their lack of finance, are very much behind in the work that they could have done both in regeneration and proper husbandry in their natural forests, and in softwood plantings. The amendment that was sent to the House of Representatives for its consideration was initiated by honourable senators on this side of the Senate. We wanted to draw the matter to the attention of the Government by moving an amendment that the following words be added to the end of the motion:   but the Senate deplores the Government's failure to prepare and publish, in consultation with the States,  a  national plan for - 
the full use and development of Australia's forestry resources; and 
the conservation of existing hardwood forests and associated flora and fauna in relation to softwood plantings'. 
Of course, the Australian Democratic Labor Party, as usual trying to score its political points, moved another amendment with exactly the same content and intent, instead of coming straight to the point and asking the Government, in conjunction with the States on a non-political level, to implement a plan for the full use and development of Australia's forestry resources and the conservation of the existing hardwood forests. This is the amendment that was moved as a political ploy: 
The State shall ensure that planting during each year is carried out efficiently and in conformity with sound forestry, environmental and financial practices. 
That is what they are doing now to the extent of their financial resources. The point is that the States need to know, firstly, that the Commonwealth is associated with them financially, and secondly, the Government's policy on forest products and forestry in general so that they have a long range plan and a short term objective towards which to work. 
The amendment that we moved in the first place was the same in intent as the DLP amendment. The point I am making is that we were given no credit whatever for having drawn attention to the importance of the Commonwealth having a long range plan and working in conjunction with the States by giving them a blueprint, if necessary, of thinking at Commonwealth level on what it wanted the States to do in their common interests. The next part of the DLP's amendment reads as follows: 
The State shall ensure that natural forests shall not be cleared for planting softwoods unless the particular proposed clearing has beforehand been the subject of an environmental impact study made by an independent expert- 
I think this is where the rub came -   on behalf of the Australian Forestry Council and the Council after considering the report of the said study has approved the particular clearing. 
If honourable senators go among foresters on the job, they will find that that is offensive to them because they are naturally conservationists. It is their job to conserve, to get the best they can from the soil and to give the tree every opportunity to develop to its fullest extent and its fullest economic value. Besides that, it is in their interests to see that the environment is encouraged to the utmost by giving the younger trees a chance to perpetuate forests. The whole idea of conservation is inherent and embodied in the training of a forester. Therefore, for him to be told in this amendment that some independent person has to come along to teach him how to do his job is possibly one of the main reasons, along with others, why this amendment met with so much opposition. However, the message has been received loud and clear by the Government and it has made the necessary compromise. I believe that we now have a renewal of the policy that has been operating over one 5- year period and is proving to be a great success. It is encouraging other people also because of the lead that has been given in the forestry departments to accept that forests can become a farming proposition although there is an old traditional saying that it takes too long. I have heard of a forester who said to a farmer: "Why don't YOU plant some pine trees there?' The farmer said: Tt takes too long to get anything from it, but 1 wish my old man had planted some'. This is the attitude that people take. They wish that someone else had done it for them. Forestry and tree planting are an economic proposition for every farmer who has suitable rainfall and land. He should have such an area tucked away for his grandson. 
That is right. 1 think that it is a very good policy. Finally, I feel we must have a very long, hard look at where we stand with regard to the investment that is so important to make in this continuing asset. We need now and will need all the products that our forests can produce. We need the most modern techniques and the best that science can direct towards this wonderful asset. As I see the position, the provisions of this legislation are only scratching the surface of the job that eventually needs to be done. We can look on this as being the pilot for expansion and development of a forestry policy which not only will make us self-sufficient with regard to cellulose but also will enable us to supply overseas markets which need, and will continue to need, the products of the forest, including cellulose. It seems that the more civilised we become the more paper we have flowing about the world. For that reason I think the compromise that has now been reached over the amendment which has been returned from the other place to the Senate will be supported by the Opposition. 
This Bill provides for grants to be made to the States as a result of arrangements agreed between the Commonwealth and the Stales at the Premiers Conference held in June this year. It provides for the grants which are included in the Budget arrangements as payments to the States, including funds to be made available to the States, directly or indirectly, to finance State works and housing programmes to the extent of $3,449m - an increase of almost $400m as compared with the grants made last year. I quote those figures as a background to the comments that I shall make on this legislation. However, I ought to point out first that the revisions that have been made in this Bill are in 3 forms. A total of 8112m is to be added to the financial assistance grants payable to the States in 1972-73. An additional grant of $2 per capita, which was paid to both New South Wales and Victoria each year, has been increased to S3. 50 per capita in 1972-73. These latter amounts will be added to the formula grants so that they will escalate in future years. Thirdly, it was agreed that a special temporary addition of S3. 5m would be made to the financial assistance grants payable to Western Australia in 1972-73. The overall effect of these 3 revisions is that SI 28m will be added to the financial assistance grants that will be produced in 1972-73 by the arrangements embodied in the existing legislation. The figures that were supplied by the Minister show that the estimated total financial assistance grants payable to Tasmania in 1971-73 will be S79.4m. It would appear from those figures that Tasmania, in relation to the size of its population, is being relatively well treated. 
As has been said so frequently, the overall problems associated with the management of State finances have got so far out of hand that a completely new approach must be made to the financing of State and local government administrations. The formula which has been devised and which is contained in this legislation is in my view a temporary measure which does no more than overcome the immediate pressing problems and, in many respects, does not meet those problems. 
I wish to support the case that was so well outlined in the 39th report  of  the Commonwealth Grants Commission and also to refer to some observations that were made in other places relating  to  the most vexed problem of State and local government finances. In paragraph 25 on page 18 of the Commonwealth Grants Commission report, the Commission states: 
There are  some  significant interstate differences in age distribution. Tasmania has the youngest population, of all States, in terms of pre-school and school-age sections of the population. In addition it  has  the lowest proportion of population in the 'working-age' group and a comparatively low proportion of elderly, people. Therefore, it has the lowest proportion of work force to total population. New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia have the lowest proportions of population in the 'school-age' group and highest proportions in the 'working-age' section of the population. 
The Commission states further: 
Queensland has the second lowest proportion of population in  the  'working-age' group but the highest proportion of elderly people (65 and over). 
I quote that paragraph  to  illustrate the variation in the problems which beset the individual States and the great burden that has been placed on my State  of  Tasmania in relation to the provisions necessary for this younger age group in a modern society. 
First and foremost, the health of the nation not only must be maintained but also must continually be improved. This means that the States have a continual call on their resources to provide health services, hospitals, clinics, mobile dental facilities, school health inspections aud many other requirements needed in the. whole field of health. This responsibility rests not only with the State governments but runs into the local government area. The same requirements exist in relation to the provision of schools. Tasmania has the added responsibility, when compared with the other States, of giving its children the equality of opportunity that is rightly theirs. The States require not only well trained teachers who are able to impart their knowledge to the children but also the establishment in the environment of the schools themselves of the standards which have been set in Canberra and which should be a yardstick for the standards to which the other States should aspire and which they should seek to maintain. When we compare the standards of the schools in the States, which are financed by the relatively inadequate funds made available under the present CommonwealthState arrangements, much remains to be desired. 
The other problem which the States face - particularly is this problem faced by Tasmania - concerns the greatly expanding and avaricious motor vehicle industry which is pouring all types of motor transport onto the roads and in the process is making handsome profits. The motor vehicle industry depends on the capacity of Slate governments and local government authorities to provide road facilities for the means of transport that it produces. 
Why do you constantly interject? 
The whole point is that the motor vehicle industry persuades people to use private transport. The money could be better directed towards improving the quality of life. 
Why does this niggling stupidity appear before an election? Cannot people be rational when an election is to be held? Elections are always with us, either for the House of Representatives, the Senate or for a State government. When an election is on, honourable senators opposite suffer from the same fever, the same disease. They must be political. 
That is quite true. Some of these organisations are imposing great burdens on State governments. 1 divert from this point to refer to the lack of planning that has occurred in respect of our immigration policy. The Commonwealth, through its recruiting officers in various countries, offers a golden handshake to intending migrants and in colourful brochures which sometimes do not contain the facts relating to employment opportunities in Australia invites these people to our country. When they arrive on our shores they are handed nice little brochures by the immigration authorities and are dispersed to the States. The big headaches then begin for the . State and local government authorities which must handle what should essentially be a Commonwealth responsibility. State and local government authorities are accruing greater debts and have increasing requirements for loan moneys. These involve high interest and repayment charges. These matters all should be the responsibility of the Commonwealth. But we never see a frontal attack made on so many of these problems which disadvantage the States. 
To follow up some of these points that 1 am making with regard to the added expenditure incurred by the States in providing facilities, I turn to the problem of pollution. Most people are aware or are becoming aware of the problems of the environment. Yet in Tasmania we have the problem of the pollution of our rivers. The handling of this problem is beyond the resources of our local government and our State Government, particularly as the State Government has a very sharply pruned Budget and greatly reduced resources. Yet we do not find any reference being made to assisting Tasmania to deal with this problem. 
Mining operations have been carried on in Tasmania for many years and the effluent from these mines has been discharged into our rivers which are the source of our fresh water supplies. At times of flood, these rivers overflow their banks and all sorts of chemical substances are deposited in our soil causing a deterio ration in the quality of that soil. In the north of Tasmania 30,000 tons of untreated sewage are flowing into the Tamar River. Parts of the Tasmanian coastline are being polluted by effluent from various factories. These matters are in abeyance. The Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution drew attention to this great problem in very strong and certain terms, yet none of the State or local government authorities can consider solving the problem because of the economics involved. While I believe that this new formula of distribution for which provision is being made in this legislation will put sticking plaster over the sore and will cover it from public view temporarily, it will not be long before we see the little red tell-tale marks coming up again and the sore will be bigger and deeper in the coming years. 1 hope that this will be the last year ;n which we will have to worry about this type of formula. Unless there is a Commonwealth and State conference to review the Constitution, so provision can be made for the States and the Commonwealth to live together much more amicably and with much more financial stability than is the case at the present time, something will have to give. 

 - Senator Webster is putting words into my mouth, as he usually tries to do. 
 Lots of people outside are very interested in what goes on in this Senate. When they hear interjections like those made by  Senator Webster,  they do not like them because they disturb their train of thought. However, it is of great importance that as speedily as possible we should come to grips with a constitutional review which will include a good look at section 96 of the Constitution and at the shortcomings of the whole of our Constitution. We are not operating within the vision of the framers of the Constitution, and after 72 years, with so few alterations having been made to the Constitution by referenda, we are really using the horse and buggy technique in a high speed age. For that reason I believe that an impasse has been reached between the Commonwealth and the States and local government in which the Commonwealth has obtained and maintained power over the purse, by its power over taxation, and the States are getting a very poor part of the deal. 
I hope that with this type of legislation under which we are sort of a generous godfather giving handouts to the States, there will be a much more reasonable distribution and that better facilities will be provided to the States to enable them to bear the growing burden of responsibilities that are being handed on to them both in tennis of the repayment of interest charges and in coping with Commonwealth policies such as the immigration policy, which should be the responsibility of the Commonwealth. The matter of the railway systems rapidly comes to mind. Of course, the States have to maintain this most essential part of their transport system. We find that in practically every State this need for an efficient railway system is growing, yet the States have not the finances to enable them to meet the challenge. 
We do not oppose the legislation. This practice of distributing money to the STates in this way has grown up over the years. The Commonwealth Grants Commission in its report gave a very comprehensive outline of all the submissions that were made and of the terms under which these .era Us are being made and I recommend the report to people who are interested in this matter. I believe that under the circumstances the Commission does a very good job in evaluating this matter within the terms of the present Constitution. All I say in conclusion is that I hope that as soon as possible the States and the Commonwealth will get together in conjunction with those people who are capable of having a deep and hard look at the inadequacies of our present Constitution, particularly as they relate to Commonwealth-State financial relations. When that is done, the better it will be for us as a nation. 
 I agree with  Senator Wilkinson  that the terms of this Bill show a great scarcity of explanatory matter and information. Clause 4 reads: 
Moneys borrowed under this Act shall be issued and applied only for the expenses of borrowing and for the purpose of financial assistance to the States of South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania in accordance with sub-section (1.) of section 2 of the States Grants (War Service Land Settlement) Act 1952-1953. 
I should like the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman)  to give me more details of the expenditure of the $744,000 allocated to Tasmania. In his second reading speech the Minister referred to the unique situation on Kangaroo Island. It appears to me that it is a situation which has resulted from some sort of bungling. The people who were associated with the choice of this land for war service land settlement purposes, who worked in developing the pastures and in recommending the types of top dressing, the various fertilisers and the like to be used have succeeded only in developing a combination of circumstances which have broken the hearts and the financial standing of those who took up these blocks. These men who have grown old on their farms have no alternative employment to which to go. By this legislation quite a considerable sum of money, $2,5m, is being directed towards the purpose of assisting these people to meet their problems. 
Evidently this clover disease is worse on Kangaroo Island than perhaps in most other areas of Australia. The Minister has said that it results in a low survival rate amongst lambs and causes up to a 10 per cent mortality amongst wethers. It appears that the ex-servicemen who are engaged in farming on Kangaroo Island are bearing a burden which results from some bungling along the line. This combination of clovers is responsible to quite a degree for the situation in which these farmers find themselves today. Mention has been made of some research being done on the problem and that action has been taken to increase research activities financed from State resources and supplemented by money from the Commonwealth extension service grants, lt is beyond my comprehension that some other method has not been found to utilise these clovers. Perhaps these farmers might diversify into cattle or be provided with additional areas permitting them to carry equivalent income-bearing stock in order to make their properties viable propositions so that they may persevere with their undertakings at this stage in their life. 
Many of these men who fought in the Second World War were 25 years of age or older when they obtained their farms. I know that some were much older than 25. The Second World War ended 27 years ago. These men are now well in their midfifties. Yet this burden is now on their shoulders, lt must be heartbreaking for them. It does not appear that what is being done about the problem is positive enough. All we are drawing attention to is that research is being done, but because of the high mortality rate amongst lambs and wethers the objective of these exservicemen, the production of lamb and mutton, is being negatived as the result of some blunder in the selection and recommendation of the clovers to be introduced on these war service land settlement, farms. 
I ask also whether the money that is being allocated to Tasmania will meet in any way the problem that exists on King Island and Flinders Island which are similar to Kangaroo Island. The people on these islands face a problem completely outside their control. I refer to freight costs. I have spent a good deal of time on King Island and Flinders Island. They are both most pleasant places to visit. The islands are fertile and otherwise very desirable but the isolation which the people on these islands experience and the high freight rates imposed on them through shipping services mean that their economic situation at the moment is practically unbearable. That is why I supported the amendment that the Opposition moved at the second reading stage of this Bill. 
We are not really coming to grips with this problem. There are some deep rooted in-built difficulties which are wrong in relation to the human problems involved in the war service land settlement scheme. Among these settlers are a number of poor bank accounts and many broken spirits. At this stage of their lives, these people cannot obtain jobs elsewhere. They must remain on their farms where they are saddled with many in-built disadvantages including, in my view, the wrong selection of the type of stock that they should run and the prevalance of this clover disease because of incorrect selection of clovers or whatever the background reason may be. On the other hand many of these settlers, especially the Tasmanians, have never felt that they own their farms. 
As I said on a previous occasion today when dealing with the allocation of Commonwealth funds, we are not coming to grips with the fundamental financial illnesses that exist today; nor are we coming to grips with the morale problems suffered by these ex-servicemen. Each year when we discuss war service land settlement, we find that the responsible Minister is quite sympathetic in expressing his views about the battle that these people are having. But the situation does not seem to improve from year to year. When we visit these soldier settlement blocks today we should find that after 25 years of operation these men are relatively prosperous, established and secure. Instead we find that they are surrounded by an aura of uncertainty and poverty. 
I suppose that it is the prerogative of farmers every now and again to whinge about their conditions in order to let off pressure. The whinges of these farmers are too deeply ingrained to be covered up by an annual allocation designed to overcome their immediate problems. I really feel that we are only skimming the surface of the problem and that a much deeper investigation should be carried out to try to establish these people for the remainder of their lives in a viable and, as far as possible, a relatively lucrative occupation that will give them what was proposed for them in the first place. This scheme should supply them with a means of income and should make worth while for them the application of their talents to the land because of their love for it. I can say only that although we cannot refuse the passage of this legislation we do think that a broader approach should be made to this whole problem. It does seem that we are skimming over a problem with which we must come to grips eventually. 
The Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman)  said that he could refer to you,  Mr Chairman,  for information about the incidence of clover disease in Western Australia. I do not know whether he remembers that during the course of his second reading speech he said: 
. nowhere else in or around this continent does the unique set of difficulties recur that are faced by soldier settlers on Kangaroo Island. 
He stated specifically that there is a problem there. The settlers have been there for up to 20 years, perhaps more, and that problem is recurring. He also said: 
During 1971-72, a detailed investigation of Kangaroo Island problems was made by officers of the Department of Primary Industry in conjunction with State officers. Following these investigations and after discussions with farmers and farmer organisations, an improvement programme has been developed for Kangaroo Island and approved in principle. 
Recognising that this great problem does exist, the Minister went on to point out: 
The programme is a flexible one capable of being modified in the light of research findings . . . 
He also said: 
It will be based on the need for scientific investigation to achieve breakthroughs to overcome the underlying problems of soil-plant-animal relationships . . . 
These are unique to Kangaroo Island. Attempts to draw a red herring across the trail by saying that there are clover diseases in some parts of Western Australia, some parts of Flinders Island and other places where various clovers are grown, do not get the Minister away from the fact that these people are on war service land settlement areas which put them at a disadvantage when compared with other war service settlers in other parts of the Commonwealth. Kangaroo Island virtually is a less suitable area for growing fat lambs and mutton because of the prevalence and higher incidence of this disease there compared with areas held by other settlers. 
The Minister went on to say that the research will be based on the need to achieve breakthroughs to overcome the underlying problems of soil-plant-animal relationships that are presently reflected in practical farming problems in this environment'. Only at this stage of the development of Kangaroo Island is the Government getting around to tackling these problems and seeing whether it can help the settlers overcome them. The Minister said that South Australia has already taken action. He said: 
Now additional funds will be made available for work aimed at the selection of suitable livestock types appropriate to agronomic conditions on the Island. 
It is very late in the piece for investigations into the selection of suitable livestock types because, as I have mentioned to the 
Minister before, these people are well past middle age; they are getting to the age at which many people, particularly those in the Public Service, think of retiring from work. 
Of course some ot them have sons, but not all. Many of those sons, having seen the battles that their fathers have had to go through, leave as quickly as possible for the cities. This is one of the great problems facing us. Talking about decentralisation, it is places such as these war service land settlement areas which should be providing continuity of interest in the land. Instead we see these recurring problems and these continual battles. I know from personal experience the things that a man on the land has to put up with. He has to face the lot. Not only does he have to face the elements - drought, flood fire and all sorts of diseases: he also has the agent on his back and he never seems to get rid of him either. 
The point 1 am making is that at this time, after 20 years of experience with war service land settlement on Kangaroo Island, the settlers there have this problem on all fronts. By that I mean the soilplantanimal relationships. Somewhere along the line there has been some sort of boob. The type of livestock on the Island should have been altered earlier. As I said earlier, perhaps the settlers there should have gone into beef; perhaps they should have gone in for a different breed or a cross-breed in order to help overcome the basic cause of the high incidence of this disease there. That is the point I am making, yet the Minister seems to just brush it off and to say that we members of the Opposition are emphasising the incidence of clover disease on Kangaroo Island although it can occur anywhere. This is a No. 1 problem for the people on Kangaroo Island, lt is my view that the people operating these farms have been saddled with a burden because cf the unsuitability of that war service land for the use of that particular type of sheet for fat lamb raising, plus the excessive planting of these clovers which bring about the high mortality rates that were mentioned by the Minister in his second reading speech. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate: In view of the serious drought prevailing in the highland area of New Guinea and coinciding with the delicate negotiations for independence, will the Minister indicate what measures are being taken by the Australian Government to assist the Government of Papua New Guinea in alleviating this most unfortunate situation? 
Is it a fact that last Monday week the Minister for Works telephoned officials of the Australian Broadcasting Commission in Tasmania and demanded to appear on the current affairs programme "This Day Tonight'? Is it a fact that, after an initial refusal from one official, the Minister's demands were met and that he did appear on the programme that night in a segment related to the Jetair issue? Is it a fact also that the Minister contacted officers of the ABC, including the General Manager of the ABC.  Mr Talbot  Duckmanton, to complain about that segment not being used in the mainland States? 
The Commonwealth Electoral Bill which has been introduced by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  is designed to amend the present electoral law and to do quite a simple thing, and that is to adapt ourselves to the needs of present day reality. This measure proposes to give to 18-year-olds the right to enrol and vote in State and Federal elections. Some of the States have already agreed that this is a reasonable status for 18-year-olds. Some have not yet got around to legislating along these lines. But the High Court decision highlights the responsibility of Parliament to make a decision in this matter. The High Court expressed the view that it was not its prerogative to interpret the Constitution but that the Parliament, being the supreme body in a democracy, should grasp this problem and deal with it. So it is the Government's responsibility. We have such a measure before us today on which we can do just that. 

 Senator Sim, with great sincerity, declared himself to be in favour of the principle inherent in this Bill and then proceeded to adopt a pragmatic approach and draw a dividing line between the principle involved the politics. I think it is a great pity that this issue has been made a matter of politics when it goes deeper than that. The issue itself is of less concern to honourable senators than it is to the 18- year-olds who, in their own way and doing their own thing, believe that they are responsible enough to be able to participate in the affairs of the nation.  Senator Sim  said that he wanted to it quite clear that he has publicly declared his support for the right of 18-year-olds to the vote. What is the difference between declaring publicly and declaring in this forum in which he represents the public? Why can he not declare himself now?  Senator Sim  pointed out that he has loyalty to his own Party in Western Australia. It has supported this proposition and it has sent him to this Parliament to represent it. 
I am just referring to the situation in which the honourable senator is placed. I admire the honourable senator's sincerity as a very honourable representative of Western Australia in this Parliament, but I would point out that the honourable senator's Party in Western Australia has agreed in principle to this proposition. 
Of saying: 'To hell with the 18-year-olds and get on with the polities'? 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Wilkinson)  - Order! 
I am sorry,  Mr Acting Deputy  President; I must apologise for interrupting the honourable senator's interjections. But, being on my feet, I insist on the right of saying that the Parliament is the place where these issues should be decided. I would like to make the observation that when the history of this issue is being examined by historians they will note all of the paraphernalia of tongue in check, double talk, confusing the issue, dragging a red herring across the trail and all the other things that one could think of that has been introduced into this debate by honourable senators from the Government side of the chamber who speak on this Bill. The young people who take our place in society later on will say: 'How did that Parliament function when there was such equivocation and such insincerity?' Every honourable senator in this chamber knows the true position. 
That in this day and age young people are maturing earlier. They have been given the right to vote in some States. Those who go away to fight for our country automatically receive the right to vote. Just because of the obstinacy by the and mulish attitude of some people in this chamber other 18-year-olds are being deprived of the right to vote. I would not object if honourable senators opposite were to get up and say: This is not Government policy; therefore I will be voting against it'. But the attitude of those who get up and have the proverbial 2-bob each way and say: 'I am completely in favour of the proposal but I am going to vote against it' is difficult to follow. I wonder how  Senator Sim  feels when he looks at himself in a mirror. Those honourable senators opposite who have already spoken in the debate have portrayed themselves as being the modern father who want to organise his family according to orthodox lines and according to his own values and who finishes up finding that his family leaves him because he is not able to adapt himself to the needs of young people. The inability of the past generation to adapt itself to changed circumstances is a tragedy that is happening throughout the community. I would not include  Senator Sim  in the category of being a member of the past generation. 
You do. You look vigourously young. But the youth of today are just as pragmatic as their elders and they want to speak in a language that they  understand. They know very well that the only thing that is preventing them from having the right to vote at 18 years of age is the stick in the mud pragmatism of many honourable senators on the Government side of this chamber who are supposedly representing some of them. As I said before, the children of the pragmatic father who is so obstinate that he will not adapt himself to changing circumstances leave him. That is what is going to happen to the Government. Those young people who support its policies are going to change their opinion because they have no reason to have any confidence in a government that takes the stand that the Commonwealth Government has taken on this issue.  Senator Sim  said that increasing interest was being shown in world affairs by young people. I support that observation. Historically young people have been the successors to responsibilities as time goes by. 
That is right. Sometimes they are the standard bearers. Interest in world affairs conies from the added opportunities of education. When we create better educational opportunities for our young people we expect some critical and decisive results from our investment and they are showing them; yet we deprive them of the basic democratic right, the final democratic act, of participating in the choosing of members of Parliament. 1 am certain that Government members have failed to understand this issue in depth in view of their tendency to equivocate and try to postpone the inevitable.  Senator Sim  said that today young people are capable of accepting responsibility at an earlier age. This is very true. If honourable senators look at the younger people today they will see that they are engaged in important scientific research work, that they are expressing themselves in literature and reaching a stage where they are able to entertain and to interpret artistic traditions. In every way, this is a young people's world. How do we appear in their eyes when we, as an august body, are prepared to speak against or to equivocate against their having the final right to vote and par- ticipate  in the selection of those who will represent them in the parliament of the Commonwealth? 

 Senator Sim said that we cannot expect them to accept responsibility if they are not given responsibility. How important  it is for young people to feel that the older people recognise them and give them responsibility. That is all this Bill seeks to do. It seeks to give responsibility  to  the 18-year olds. Let us see how they accept the responsibility. Those who are prepared either to defer or to find some weak excuse for not giving them the vote now are failing the young people of this country. I ask  Senator Sim  to prevail upon his colleagues who are having 2 bob each way to come down on the side of reality and support this measure. 
1 rise to support the case that has been put forward by  Senator Cavanagh, Senator Georges  and  Senator Mulvihill  relating to the inadequacy of our diplomat.matic and public relations and of our Department of Foreign Affairs. Australia is at the stage of its development where it has encouraged people to migrate here from all parts of the world, particularly from Europe. Many problems that are arising are being left in limbo because of a lack of awareness on the part of the Department of Foreign Affairs in making its contacts with these countries. 

 Senator Mulvihills intention was to raise a matter relating to a Polish citizen who is an Australian resident. A reply from the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  in respect of this matter indicated that certain obligations arose from international agreements entered into by the Federal Republic of Germany after World War II but that they are not obligations which Australia can enforce as Australia is not a party to the relevant agreements. There is, of course, no peace treaty between the Federal Republic of Germany and either Poland or Australia. 
I draw the attention of  Senator Wright  who represents in the Senate the Minister for Foreign Affairs to the fact that, as Australia is acting as a catalyst in attracting people from these various European countries to migrate here, we should be able to make contact on all necessary levels so that the rights of these citizens can be preserved. Contact should be made with the countries from which these people come. 1 wish to support the case that has been put forward to demonstrate the many anomalies, loopholes and shortcomings in the Government's present policy with regard to the needs of a great number of migrants who have come here. A good deal of consideration should be given to a review to seek to make the necessary contacts with the countries from which these people have come in order to see that whatever rights these people who have been encouraged to come here have are preserved as many of them have migrated to Australia as a refuge or as their hope for the future. We have an obligation to look after their interests and I think the cases raised by  Senator Cavanagh, Senator Georges  and  Senator Mulvihill  have a lot of merit. We must take a deeper look at the situation that has been created in this country. These nationals still have a contact with their homelands and we must make closer contact with them. 
My question is  directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. In view of the interest and concern of our Pacific Islands neighbours about the Australian Government's protest to France about its intention of testing further nuclear devices in the Pacific next year, I ask: Has the Government considered the imposition of economic sanctions to prevent these nuclear tests from going ahead, such as warning that it will scrap its plans to purchase Mirage F1 fighters from France? If the Government will not consider some action as a form of protest, how can the Australian public and Australia's neighbours be expected to believe that the Government is trying to persuade the French to stop the tests? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONAs I recall,  Senator Bishop  reflected on this aspect last week. I read out last week the line of response which the Australian Government has made. This made it abundantly clear that Australia had used the normal procedures to register its protest. The honourable senator has suggested that the Australian Government should impose some economic sanctions on France. I should have thought that the whole question of trade with France would have been involved in such a proposition because it would not be possible to pick the eyes out of trade in that sense. I have great reservations about the proposals contained in the honourable senator's question. However, those proposals have been put in good faith and I do not think it is for me to reflect upon them at question time. They concern matters of Government policy. I will have them directed to the attention of the responsible Minister, as is my duty when such a question is posed to me. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Did the tabling in the Senate on 27th September 1972 of papers relating to the purchase of 6 DC3 aircraft from Jetair Australia Ltd cause great concern to some senior public servants in  4  Government Departments. 
Did  Mr K.  C. O. Shann, C.B.E.  Deputy  Secretary of the Department of Foreign Affairs, in a Departmental Minute in 1971, stale that the details of the order given to him by the then Secretary to the Department of Supply,  Mr A.  S. Cooley, were 'very disturbing'. 
Did a Senior Department of Supply officer in a minute to  Mr Cooley  ask: 
what grounds there were for restricting the purchase to Jetair Australia Ltd; and 
what grounds were there for considering $275,00 a reasonable price. 

 Senator WRIGHT- The Minister for Foreign Affairs has furnished the following reply: 
No. 
Not that expression. The record appears in the papers tabled. 
Yes. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Postmaster-General. Is it a fact that the Australian Broadcasting Commission Commissioners met last Thursday and Friday to discuss the current controversy over the programme 'This Day Tonight'? In view of the growing belief among senior staff members of the programme 'This Day Tonight' that the show will be axed after it goes into Christmas recess on 15th December, can the Minister approach the PostmasterGeneral to give a firm assurance that this popular and successful programme will not be killed off because its staff have tried to preserve their independence? Also, if there are no plans to end the programme, why has not the Australian Broadcasting Commission yet approached the 2 main people -  Mr Peach  and  Mr Carleton  - to renew their contracts, when usually this approach is made some months before their contract is completed? 
The motion before the Senate is in the following terms: 
That there be referred to the Standing Committee on Industry and Trade the following matter - The report that the Australian Gas Light Co. is proposing to conclude a contract with a Japanese corporation for the manufacture and supply of steel pipes for the proposed natural gas pipeline from Moomba natural gas field in South Australia to Sydney, and whether this would deny. Australian steel producers and suppliers the opportunity to fabricate and supply the required steel or any part of it. 
To that motion on behalf of the Opposition I move: 
Leave out all words after 'the following matter', insert 'Legislative and administrative action which should be taken by the Commonwealth alone or in co-operation with the States in relation to the construction of the natural gas pipeline system of Australia (including the  Moomba - Sydney  pipeline) to ensure, inter alia, maximum utilisation of Australian employment and industry'. 
The Opposition, in moving this amendment to the motion before the Senate, acknowledges the worth of the existing motion but contends that it does not go far enough. This proposed reference to the Standing Committee on Industry and Trade relates to the controversy that has arisen out of the supply of pipes for the Moomba to Sydney pipeline from the South Australian natural gas field and provides an excellent opportunity for a thorough examination of the need for a national policy and planning on energy exploration, in this case natural gas. In the course of his remarks  Senator Webster  virtually supported our amendment, although he qualified it by saying that we would bring the matter into the field of a political football. The honourable senator had experience on the Senate Select Committee on Off-Shore Petroleum Resources, along with myself and other honourable senators, including Senators Cotton and Young, who were chairmen,  Senator Laucke  who was a distinguished member,  Senator Keeffe  and  Senator Gair.  All took part in this committee of inquiry. A great amount of the evidence showed that the very situation that we are facing today would have to be faced at the Commonwealth level, possibly in conjunction with the States. 
Every country in the developed and industrialised world which possesses supplies of natural gas has a national policy to ensure the efficiency and economic utilisation of this invaluable power source - that is, every country except Australia. There is no reasonable excuse for Australia not having a policy. The only excuse - this is the rub - is Government neglect and disregard in the face of powerful recommendations by experts. In our view this is completely inexcusable. The case for a national plan and authority to oversee and rationalise our gas supplies is overwhelming. Without any doubt the use of natural gas for domestic and industrial purposes will increase rapidly over the next few years. This increase will accentuate the need for national planning. The Senate will recall that on 27th September last we on this side of the chamber raised a matter of urgency in the following terms: 
The failure of the Government to take action to protect Australian, employment and industry in the supply of the Moomba-Sydney pipeline. 
In moving this amendment this afternoon the Opposition is urging the Senate to make use of the Senate Standing Committee on Industry and Trade to recommend to the Government, in support of the recommendations and findings of the Senate Select Committee on Off-Share Petroleum Resources, steps that it can take towards a national plan in the interests of Australian industry and particularly in the interests of Australian employment. It would be no exaggeration to say that employment is a problem which now figures quite largely in our community. Many conflicting figures are being pushed out through the Press about employment in Australia. 
The resolution and the amendment which are before the Senate are both very important matters because they are concerned with employment in Australia. They are important also in view of the fact that we are considering allowing a private company to place orders overseas for the supply of pipes. Whatever the size of the position of local companies in our industrial complex, if they are capable of manufacturing the pipes every consideration should be given to the supply of pipes coming from them, within our own country, in this way absorbing some of the unemployed which creates such a great problem in Australia at present. The list of people who have advocated some form of national planning and control over the exploitation, transportation and use of Australia's comparatively untapped reservoir of natural gas is impressive.  Mr Hume,  general manager of the Brisbane Gas Co., and  Sir William  Pettingell, general manager of the Australian Gas Light Co. which is so intimately involved in the current furore over the tendering for the steel pipes for the pipeline from South Australia to Sydney, were prominent and interested commercial leaders who were referred to in the urgency motion last month. Both of these men are adamant in their contention that this country needs a national guideline on the utilisation of natural gas and the establishment of a sensible pipeline network without the bedlam that has accompanied this development in other countries. 
If honourable senators refer to the report of the Senate Select Committee on OffShore Petroleum Resources they will find that the United States. Canada, Italy and other countries went through this turmoil before they eventually reached the conclusion that it was a national problem which had to be ordered on a national level. We must not repeat all the mistakes that were made by other countries on the pretext that private enterprise is involved and that this matter has nothing to do with the Commonwealth or that the Commonwealth has not constitutional powers. The reason for the hotchpotch which has developed here and which it is proposed that future generation Australians will use has developed from the lack of design at a national level of a project such as this. We have only to consider what happened in our railway system. If only we knew then what we know now. Because of the short term view when our railways were being established we saw the emergence of varying gauges throughout Australia. There was the narrow gauge in Queensland, the broad gauge in New South Wales, intermediate gauge in Victoria and the narrow gauge again in Tasmania. There has been great cost to restore the position to some semblance of a national railway policy where there can be free movement and transport between the States on the rail system, and this has only come about in recent years. A tremendous amount of money could have been saved if this problem had been attacked in its early stages. Yet here we are with the very same problem on our hands. This is only the beginning of the use of our natural gas resources. 
They are much more favourable; that is true. 
That is right, and it has taken ail these years since federation to achieve some unanimity between the States and to arrive at a proper plan. The railways were built as pioneering ventures in order to open up this land of ours. This was a worthy objective. Today in the north-west of Australia - and the Government's policy is that we will not export our oil reserves unless it is found that we have sufficient to meet our own needs - we have an oil empire greater than that of the North Sea. It will be proved to be one of the richest natural gas fields in the world. But somehow or other that natural gas has to be brought to the centres of population. As a natural consequence of these huge resources being available, the present concept is that the pipeline will go to Moomba and eventually out to Mareenie where there are enormous resources of natural gas and to the tight sand oil resources in the Amadeus basin. It is a natural step to take these resources across the desert, as has happened in other countries which have this problem, and connect up with the north-west shelf. We have in this field a similar pattern to that which we had with our railway system in its embryo stages. To allow the first stage of the utilisation of natural gas resources - onshore resources - to start off in a hotch potch way, as I see the situation at the present time, Ls something which the people of Australia will resent. Those who follow us will also criticise us very strongly as a Parliament and as a government for not having taken a stronger stand. 
As I have mentioned, the experience of Canada and the United States of America should have been sufficient warning for the Australian Government. As long ago as 1965, the Government ignored the recommendations of  Sir William  Pettingell. Now, it appears that the same thing is happening again - this phobia of the Government to want to steer away or shy away from private enterprise. But this is only part of its very general philosophy that private enterprise can do things better than governments. But this is beyond private enterprise. The pipeline between Moomba and Sydney will be part of the whole complex for the transport of oil and gas. Gas in particular is the fuel and the energy resource of the future. Not only from the point of view of pollution is natural gas desirable and more suitable in densely populated areas but, from our point of view as a nation, the plentiful reserves have come at a very opportune time when the use of natural gas is becoming better known and more widely demanded. 
Business leaders and trade union officials are united in their concern about a national approach to this problem. To give honourable senators an idea of how big a problem this is in the minds of the wide spectrum of the Australian people, I point out that the efficiency of industrial development and cheaper power and the provision of job opportunities for hundreds of Australians could easily be hampered and jeopardised without a national approach to this problem. A committee - even a subcommittee - of the Senate Standing Committee on Industry and Trade would be ideally situated to look at this problem and to advise quickly on the steps that should be taken by the Commonwealth so that the Commonwealth can use the powers that are available to it to face up to the obvious need and to look through the evidence that would be available from an investigation by the Senate Select Committee. The Senate Select Committee on Offshore Petroleum Resources was able to obtain the opinions and the sworn evidence of some of the leading men associated with the oil industry. This should be sufficient basis for the Senate Standing Committee on Industry and Trade to look into this matter on a national level. 
The Senate Select Committee on Offshore Petroleum Resources was presented with a considerable volume of evidence suggesting that regulatory and advisory responsibilities of an authority in the field of interstate trade could include: 
To authorise the construction, ownership, operation and location of interstate oil and gas pipelines; 
To make orders with respect to all matters relating to traffic, tariffs and prices; and 
To study, review and from time to time  report  to the Parliament on such policies and measures as it considers necessary or advisable in (he public interest for the control of transportation of oil and gas. 
This is just common sense. How could anyone say that in the national interest there ought not to be a Federal authority to regulate and control a field of activity as important as natural gas and determine what should be done as we begin to develop a pipeline system to take advantage of a great natural resource. 
The Moomba-Sydney pipeline - and other pipelines which will undoubtedly thread their way across the country in years to come - should not be the province of a sole business interest. The Australian Gas Light Co. or any other local or overseas company should not be able to make decisions which will affect the cost of the pipeline, the jobs of hundreds of Australians and the price of gas transported by the line, without at least an overview by the Federal Government. The Committee to which this reference could be made would be able to map out a plan that the Government could follow to ensure the best and most economical construction of the pipeline and, on its completion, the best and most economical distribution of the gas. lt is wrong that this country lacks a national policy in this area. The adoption of the motion as amended would break the ground and pave the way for this policy. 
To pursue this matter on the level of examining the proposal of the Australian Gas Light Co. to conclude a contract with a Japanese corporation would be on too low a key. We are to commence a project to connect up natural gas fields that will develop and extend into the distant future. If we make mistakes now, if we follow the pattern of other countries which had to pay very dearly for their mistakes, we will not be forgiven by those who follow us. I contend that this matter should be approached on a national level by a committee of the national Parliament, which would then speak with all the authority of evidence obtained from the most knowledgeable people in the land. I believe that any government with a sense of responsibility would follow, or take heed of. those recommendations. Therefore, the Labor Party feels that the present motion, although it has a lot of worth, does not go far enough and that the amendment I have moved on behalf of the Party brings the matter into its proper perspective. If a national approach is taken, Australia as a nation will gain not only at the present time but in the future. The problems that we are facing of tariffs, jealousies between competing private companies and so on have to be put onto a national level if Australia is to become involved in this industry instead of being the object of criticism from other countries for not having learned from their mistakes. If this is done, other countries will view us as progressive and as a country that understands the nature of the resources that we have and which we will develop to the highest level. T hope that the Senate will support the Labor Party's amendment and thereby put this matter in its proper perspective. 
I will not delay the Senate very long except to associate myself with  Senator Primmer's  plea to the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  for a review of the very harsh treatment of Jean McLean, whom I know io be a person of very strong and firm opinions in relation to the things that she believes are right, I know that over the last 8 years she and I have agreed that Australia has been involved in a tragedy for this country and for humanity. I believe that history will prove conclusively that the Government's policy, the policy of the United States and the way in which the South East Asia Treaty Organisation was involved in the war in Vietnam will reflect very badly on the judgment of those who were associated with the decisions in relation te it. Jean McLean consistently has used whatever energies and abilities she has to try in her own way to persuade the Government and the people of Australia that wo were on the wrong track and had the wrong policy. I believe that the law that has sent her to gaol because of her convictions and her conscientious objection to the Government's policy is far too harsh. 
I ask the Attorney-General to use any clemency he can show or any discretion he has to allow this mother of 2 young children to be released from gaol. 
asked the AttorneyGeneral, upon notice: 
Does the Croatian liberation magazine Spremnost' make frequent reference in its columns to the Ustasha and have commendatory articles been frequently written about the activities of terrorists both inside and outside of Yugoslavia. 
Is the Editor of 'Spremnost' a leader of the Croatian liberation movement in Australia and is he also a prominent member of the Liberal Party Migrant Advisory Council in New South Wales. 
Is a  Mr Kokic  a senior member of the Croatian liberation movement and a senior public servant, employed by the Department of Labour and National Service employment counselling service in Melbourne, Victoria. 
What does the Attorney-General propose to do about the persons referred to in (1) and (2) who openly and actively associate with the Croatian liberation movement. 

 Senator GREENWOOD - The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
'Spremnost' does from time to time contain references to the Ustasha in historical terms and to the activities of students and others in Yugoslavia who advocate or participate in revolutionary activities. 

 Mr Lovokovic, the Editor of 'Spremnost', is understood to be a leading member of the organisation known as the Croatian Liberation Movement in Australia and he is a member of the Liberal Party Migrant Advisory Council in New South Wales. 

 Mr Kokic is understood to be a member of the Croatian Liberation Movement and he presently occupies a position of District Employment Officer at a district office of the Department of Labour and National Service in Melbourne. 
Australians are free to espouse political causes of all kinds, whether or not the policies advocated would find favour with many Australians. The law is concerned only with those who seek to further political causes bythe advocacy or the use of force or violence, or who otherwise engage in seditious activities. Membership of the Croation Liberation Movement does not, of itself, involve any offence against Commonwealth law. There is therefore no action which I can take against a person merely because he is a member of the Croatian Liberation Movement. But, as I have frequently said, the Government will not tolerate the use of force or violence by any person or group of persons to attain political ends. 
I ask the Minister for Civil Aviation whether he can inform the Senate what attempts were made by the Jetair group to become the third airline in Australia. Was it  Mr Bovill,  a director of Jetair Australia Ltd, who made representations for a third airline? Is this the same  Mr Bovill  who has beenprominentin fund raising for the Liberal Party in New South Wales? 
My question follows on the previous question asked by  Senator Cavanagh.  I ask the AttorneyGeneral: Is he aware that  Mr Tomislav  Lesic, the person referred to by  Senator Cavanagh,  who is a former  president of  a Croatian extremist movement, lost both his leg', in 1962 when a bomb that he was carrying in his suitcase exploded? Is the Attorney-General aware that this same Tomislav Lesic is being evicted from his New South Wales Housing Commission fiat because of the objections of other tenants to his use of the flat as a Croatian extremist cell? Is the Attorney-General aware also that  Mr Lesic  was in the vicinity of the bomb explosion ki George Street, Sydney, last month? Will the Minister also answer why Commonwealth police and not New South Wales State police were sent to investigate the violent bashing which took place in Lesic's flat last week? 
Blind Freddie could see it. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Lawrie)  - Order! 
Be that as it may, it is also a fact that  Mr Lesic  was actually in the building in which the bomb exploded in Sydney about 3 or 4 weeks ago. One of the complex and curious features of this whole matter which must be the subject of investigation by the police is that a man who in this chamber has been alleged to be a very strong Croatian nationalist is involved in that bomb explosion and, as I understand it, was injured in that bomb explosion for which his own compatriots are supposed to have been responsible, on one view which is expressed by some members of the Australian Labor Party. This is a matter which is part of the general investigations which must be carried out by the New South Wales Police Force. 
The Bill now before the Senate is designed to amend the Air Navigation (Charges) Act.  It  proposes to increase charges to be levied on operators of aircraft for services and facilities including the use of aerodromes, airway facilities, meteorological services and search and rescue services. These services are provided and maintained by the Commonwealth. In the past, these charges have increased at the rate of 10 per cent. In this amending Bill the rate of annual increase is reduced to 5 per cent. The Opposition does not oppose this Bill. I feel that  I  should make a few comments relating to the income of the 'Department of Civil Aviation in respect of these facilities which are provided at the various airports and through the Department generally. 
The total cost of maintaining these facilities in the last financial year was SI 13m. The Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  pointed out in his second reading speech that revenue received by his Department in respect of the use of these facilities was $33m, $23m coming from air navigation charges and $10m from airport commercial development, rentals and other miscellaneous sources. In addition, the Department of Customs and Excise collected about $19m in aviation fuel taxes. The total revenue is $52m against a total expenditure of $11 3m. Everyone has great admiration for the efficiency of the Department of Civil Aviation, the safety record that has been maintained by that Department and, generally speaking, the high standard of the air terminals in our major cities and for the plans that are afoot for the upgrading of many of the airports which are not now up to the required standard. All of these facilities are accepted by the public. Praise is due to the Department for setting these high standards. But somehow or other the differences between the expenditure and the revenue of this Department seem to be one of the annual problems that confront this Parliament when the estimates come up for consideration and these various new charges are imposed. 
The introduction of the heavier aircraft which carry more passengers has resulted in higher charges being imposed on the airlines whose margins of profit have been reduced. Not only is it difficult for Trans-Australia Airlines to meet these continuingly increasing charges without increasing fares but also an extra burden is placd on the shoulders of people who use the airlines for holiday purposes. The problem has 2 extremities. On the one hand, the Department must meet the tremendous expense of providing these facilities. On the other hand there are pressures for operators to seek an increase in fares. Whether the Department will be able to strike some happy medium by which these conflicting requirements may be brought together is something which  i  am sure all honourable senators would like to hear and know. Civil aviation is one of those areas in which we find tremendous sums of public money must be spent. The need for airline operators to pay their way results in ever-increasing air fares. 
I was rather concerned when I read of the proposal to impose these charges on training flights which are part and parcel of the whole of the civil aviation structure. Section 8A of the First Schedule to the Principal Act states: 
A charge is not payable in respect of a flight undertaken solely in connection with the training and checking of a person as a member of the flight crew of an aircraft. 
The Bill now before the Senate has a provision seeking to do just that. I feel that this imposition perhaps may lead to a reduction in the time spent in training and checking pilots. That could be the result of the extra costs that will be imposed on this aspect of aviation. In previous years, increases in air navigation charges have generally been at the rate of 10 per cent, but this year the increase will be only 5 per cent. It will be applicable as from 1st December this year. 
The amendments in clauses 5 and 8 introduce a levy for air crew training flights operated by the airlines. They will not earn very much revenue. The estimated costs of the special jet training aerodrome at Avalon are about $lm. The charges that are to be levied will be a burden on the airlines. We should give very close consideration to the charges to see whether they might have any side affects in relation to the training of pilots. They might not be trained as thoroughly as otherwise would be the case. The other clauses of the Bill are more or less machinery clauses. The Opposition feels that at a time when costs are increasing and international standards are being improved, civil aviation in Australia has to be in the big league. The Opposition feels that the Government is in a dilemma because it has to meet the standards that apply in other parts of the world. Those standards are being lifted continually. Members of the International Civil Aviation Organisation are expected to provide facilities for international flights. We realise the dilemma in which the Department finds itself. Therefore we do not propose to oppose the Bill. 
I was very pleased to hear the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  give an assurance as to the emphasis which is being placed by the Department of Civil Aviation on the subject of passenger fares. The general public is looking to the Department to protect its interests. I think all honourable senators realise how increased airline charges can escalate right throughout the cost structure in the community. I noticed on looking through the estimates for the Department of Civil Aviation that it has to pay a large amount for meteorological services. I was quite surprised to note that the Departments has to pay more for meteorological services than for maintenance and the like. I appreciate the nature of the meteorological information provided. I remember only too well wondering in my youth when working out my triangular velocities how long meteorological information tested. One could work out one's course and find out before one took off that one was working on a completely brummy set of information because there had been a change in such a short period of time. 
That is right. I would like to know on what the Bureau of Meteorology bases its charges and whether there is any flow on from the Department of Civil Aviation of the information supplied. I do not know the full extent of the activities of the Bureau of Meteorology, but I do know that it provides services for the news media, shipping and many other avenues. The expense borne by the Department of Civil Aviation for meteorological services seems to be very large. It appears to rank highly in the expenditure involved in the administration of the Department. Could the Minister give me any basic information on how the meteorological costs are worked out and whether the Department gets full value for its money. I know that it gets all the information which is available and that the extent of this information is improving all the time, but why does it cost so much? 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
How many Commonwealth Police were directly involved in the investigation into terrorist bombing attacks which occurred on 16th September 1972, in Sydney, New South Wales. 
Have the full facilities of the Commonwealth Police been offered to the New South Wales Police. 
Will the Attorney-General inform the Senate whether efforts made to apprehend the terrorists in New South Wales are being given top priority by the Commonwealth Police Force. 

 Senator GREENWOOD- The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: (1), (2) and (3) The so-called bombing attacks in Sydney on 16th September 1972 involved breaches of New South Wales law. There is no evidence so far that any breaches of Commonwealth law are involved. The responsibility for investigating the explosions therefore rests on the New South Wales Police Force, whose function it is to enforce the laws of that State. Immediately the explosions occurred, 2 members of the New South Wales District of the Commonwealth Police Force were detailed to go to the scene of each explosion and assist the New South Wales police intheirinvestigations. Subsequently, at the request of the New South Wales police, an officer of the Central Crime Intelligence Section of the New South Wales District of the Commonwealth Police has been attached to the New South Wales Police Special Branch to ensure adequate liaison between the 2 Forces and to enable information possessed by the Commonwealth Police through the Central Crime Intelligence Bureau that might be relevant to the explosions in Sydney, to be passed quickly on to the New South Wales police. Any further assistance that the New South Wales police might require from the Commonwealth police will be freely given. 
The Opposition appreciates that this is a long awaited Bill which will bring great benefits to the aged people of this country. We do not wish to delay its passage and we ito not oppose it. 
For the benefit of the Senate, can the Attorney-General summarise the contents of the note given to the Yugoslav Government in reply to its protest about Australian authorities doing nothing to prevent Yugoslav terrorists training in this country? ls the AttorneyGeneral aware of statements made by police in Wallsend court last week-end during the hearing of charges of possessing an unlicensed revolver against a Yugoslav named Miskovic? Did the police state that Miskovic told them that members of the Ustasha movement had been in Newcastle 2 weeks previously seeking him and another man and that he was carrying the revolver for his protection? In view of these constant references to the Ustasha, does the Attorney-General still deny that a Croatian Liberation Movement, obviously using the feared name of Ustasha, is active in Australia? 
This Bill seeks the approval of the Senate to borrowings by the Commonwealth for Qantas of up to $US25m ($A21m) to finance the purchase of a sixth Boeing 747 aircraft, spare parts and equipment at an estimated cost of $US29m ($A24m). The aircraft is due for delivery in March 1974. The Opposition believes that in this proposed arrangement the Government is committing the people of Australia before it is necessary to do so. We feel that further time should be taken to examine this proposition. At a time like this when we are approaching the last round-up on 2nd December we feel that legislation of this nature has a certain political content. For this reason I move: 
At end of the motion add: 'but the Senate is of the opinion that the passage of this Bill should  be  delayed until  (1)  firm arrangements are made for substantial co-production procedures for imported aircraft, (2) a select committee is appointed to inquire into and report upon the effectiveness of Qantas management and (3) the terms of the loan agreement are set forth in a schedule to the Bill'. 
I join with  Senator Poyser  in expressing my regret, to use a very mild term, at the attitude of the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood).  If I wished to I could quote parts of his second reading speech and refer to the matter of the Government giving increased assistance to the organisations which provide what are generally known as Meals on Wheels services. The Meals on Wheels organisation is an extension of the old poor house which was attended by people who could not afford to eat because of their lack of funds. The Government is using the Red Cross and other well meaning organisations in the community to do a job that it should be doing. Any dignified person should be able not only to entertain his friends in his old age but also to pay for his meals. The Delivered Meals Subsidy Bill is an extension of the provision of charity that the Government wants to crow about. 
The Attorney-General did neither himself nor those who sit behind him any credit by his unco-operative and provocative altitude on this matter. We are all aware of the circumstances in which he has adopted such an attitude. We are drawing towards the end of the present parliamentary session. There is a lot of politics in the air. This is a measure on which the whole of the Senate is in agreement. Yet we find that the AttorneyGeneral has taken on his true guise as a political sapling - 'green wood'. The AttorneyGeneral spoke of the spirit of community endeavour. We on this side of the House wish to co-operate in a spirit of community endeavour. The Government is temporarily in the position of being able to aid and help aged and lonely people in the evening of their lives. It is the responsibility of every community and every government to do this. If I were to be political or provocative I could criticise the Government for providing too little too late. 
The Opposition will support it because in principle the measure is a correct one. 
The AttorneyGeneral could have finished his remarks by saying that he thanked the Opposition for its co-operation. I would like to point out to the Attorney-General that he is not serving well the Senate, his Ministerial colleagues or any of the members of this Parliament who have commitments in the near future. We have a big legislative programme before us. For the AttorneyGeneral to be so irresponsible as to adopt the provocative attitude that seems to be inbuilt into his nature and to put the Senate on the wrong foot at a time when there are tensions and when politics is rearing its ugly head is deplorable. It is deplorable that the Attorney-General should start the week off in this fashion. I object to what he has done. Nevertheless, I reiterate what I said in my speech on the motion for the second reading of the Bill, namely, that the Opposition supports this measure. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the PostmasterGeneral. Does the Minister not see the resignation of the Australian Broadcasting Commission's director of current affairs,  Mr Lachlan  Shaw, to be a clear pointer to the great dissatisfaction among the staff of the current affairs department of the Australian Broadcasting Commission about political interference? As  Mr Shaw  gave political interference as his reason for resigning, does the Minister still deny that great pressure is being applied to ABC current affairs programmes in an attempt to make them conform to Government thinking? 
I move: 
After proposed sub-section  (2A.),  add the following new sub-section - (2b.) The rate of a stabilization payment provided for in the preceding sub-section, especially the figure of 4,900,000, will be reviewed each year prior to the establishment of the support price for that season.' 
Proposed sub-section (2a.) reads:  (2a.) The rate of a stabilization payment in respect offruit picked during the season that commenced on the first day of October, One thousand nine hundred and seventy-one, shall not exceed an amount per reputed bushel, or part of a reputed bushel, in each container of fruit equal to- 
Eighty cents; or 
a number of cents equal to the product of 80 and 4,900,000 divided by a number equal to the number of reputed bushels of fruit picked during that season that - 
is exported on consignment during that season; and 
is sold after exportation and before the end of that season, whichever is the lesser amount. 
Our amendment seeks to have incorporated in the legislation provision for a review to be made of the ceiling in the light of circumstances that arise. It seeks to give flexibility. I think the amendment is self explanatory.I hope that it will receive the support of the Committee. 
-I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I ask for leave to make my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Health. Is it a fact that in the last financial year the Commonwealth's contribution to doctors' fees increased by $37m to $132.6m, following the decision to increase the fees for the second time in 18 months? As the Commonwealth is such a large contributor to doctors' incomes through its subsidising of fees, should it not follow that Commonwealth should determine the common fee level and insist that the doctors charge accordingly or, as an alternative, introduce a participating doctors' scheme for the national health service? 
As I said on Tuesday in response to questions asked by  Senator Murphy  and  Senator Willesee,  there is an arrangement for a common fee procedure. Today I will be putting down the figures up to 30th June, which are not of any great significance when compared to the previous 3-monthly cycle. The figures up to the end of June will not show the impact of the 1st July increase. It will be approximately the end of the year before we will be able to make a judgment on that. When we have those figures we will be in a better position to examine and evaluate the application of the common fee. The application of the common fee in States other than New South Wales has been quite good. It has not been good in the general practitioner area in New South Wales. That is a fact of life. When we have a look at the September figures and assess the impact of the increase from 1st July, if those figures are not satisfactory the Government - as I said the other day any government would have to do the same - will have to look at what procedures it will adopt in the future. It would be quite wrong to canvass that position in advance. 
Reference has been made to participation. I regard participation in itself as the ultimate sanction. Let nobody imagine that there are no real problems in the concept of participation. But we will have to face up to it if that is necessary. I am hoping, and the Government is hoping, that as a result of the increase given on 1st July there will be a significant and quite impressive improvement in the figures for the September quarter. 
The States Grants (Fruit-growing Reconstruction) Bill and the Apple and Pear Stabilization Bill relate to the canned fruit industry and the apple and pear industry. The 2 Bills are more or less com plementary. In the other place they were debated together and, at the Committee stage, taken separately. Perhaps it might be convenient if we follow the same practice here? 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senatot Prowse) - Is leave granted? There being no objection I will allow that course to be followed. 
I will deal first with the States Grants (Fruit-growing Reconstruction) Bill which relates to an agreement between the Commonwealth and one or more of the States in respect of a scheme to provide assistance to persons engaged in fruit growing. In the parlance of the industry this Bill is called the treepull Bill. It brings into full focus the tragedy of the apple and pear industry which is fighting a doomed rearguard action. This is a makeshift measure, which, if pursued, inevitably will end in the total collapse of the industry. The industry is bearing the full brunt of inflation, high shipping costs, vagaries of sterling devaluation, strong competition from South Africa which was advantaged as a result of the sterling devaluation, quite strong competition from New Zealand and, of course, a loss of previous markets as a result of the European Economic Community arrangements. Not only that, but the future seems even more desperate because of the effects that will come when Britain enters the Common Market. 
I think most people realise that in the industry there has been a long decline over a number of years. The situation is now becoming quite clear. I am speaking for Tasmanian orchardists who, year by year, have seen their industry become less and less viable. This tree-pull scheme is a negative approach in that over the years these farmers have produced a product which is world renowned. When we speak of Tasmania we speak of apples. Also we have been able to produce very high quality pears. But apples are by far the most important sector of our orchard industry. It is felt in Tasmania - as it is in other States to which I will refer later - that this scheme does nothing to get to the basic cause of the problems. I mentioned inflation. The orchardists seem to be at the tail end of the inflationary process. They have no redress along the line whereas  some other people have gained from inflation. Many people have made fortunes through inflation. Many profitable industries in other categories over the years have been bought out on the inflated price level. Unfortunately the profits have been syphoned off overseas. These people must be thankful for inflation. But the orchardist is one of the worst sufferers because of the costs involved - through inflated prices - for his sprays, equipment and other requirements for the production of fruit. Part 1 of the Schedule of the Bill provides the conditions and eligibility for assistance, lt states: l.l A fruit-growing industry will qualify for financial assistance under the Scheme - 
if there is generally accepted to be a period of at least 3 years between planting of its trees and the trees reaching the stage of full bearing. 
This means that the orchard has to be in full production with mature trees. This part of the schedule also provides: 
if its trees are generally accepted as having a commercial bearing life of at least 10 years after the commencement of full bearing; and 
if the  Commonwealth  and the States agree that there is a chronic over-supply of the commodity produced from its trees. and shall be so qualified during such time as the Commonwealth and the State are agreed that subparagraph (c) continues to apply. 
The condition in that sub-paragraph is that there is a chronic over-supply of the commodity. We live in an area of Asia and, geographically, we must more and more direct our thinking to this area. Our future economically as well as in other ways is irrevocably tied up with the future of Asia. As has been quoted so often, in this area there are over 1,000 million people. Many of them are underfed, undernourished and in need of a better balanced diet. It seems incongruous that we are embarking on such a negative policy, that we have to pull down and reduce the provision of something which has been considered an important part of man's diet. The conditions attached to the schedule for eligibility show that a grower must be predominantly a horticulturist who is in severe financial difficulties and who intends to clear-fell his orchard and leave the fruit growing industry. This is a rather ambiguous condition because 'severe financial difficulties' means that a man is financially bankrupt or in such a condition that he will not be able to carry on in the industry and he intends to clear-fell his orchard and leave the fruitgrowing industry altogether. 
From my reading of the Bill there does not seem to be any specific line of demarcation as to what this really means. If there is to be a means test, what is the financial level at which a man will be classified as being  in  severe financial difficulties? If he is in severe financial difficulties, why would he want to clear-fell his orchard, leave the fruit growing industry and move into another primary industry? After all, the nature of the soil chosen for orcharding has limitations and is not readily adaptable to many forms of pastoral production. It would appear that a grower who is in severe financial difficulties and intends to clear-fell his orchard and leave the fruit growing industry, would be eligible for assistance within the terms of this very important requirement. 
The Bill further states that a grower will be eligible to apply for assistance if the Authority is satisfied that he does not have adequate resources, unless he receives assistance, to withstand the short term  effects  on his economic viability of removing trees. He is eligible also if a surplus of the horticultural commodity - apples or pears - is threatening the long term viability of his property, and if in the opinion of the Authority the enterprise has sound prospects of long term commercial viability after removal of the surplus trees, taking into account other potential use of the land. This is a very difficult provision to interpret in view of the particular nature of orchard land. Somewhere there has to be an economic genius or an agricultural officer of tremendous wisdom who can make the decision on whether any farmland has sound prospects of long term commercial viability after the removal of surplus trees. 
I have wilh me a communication from the Apple and Pear Growers Federation of Tasmania. The Federation puts up quite a strong case for a Tasmanian fruit industry authority. Knowing the nature of the industry very thoroughly, and understanding it very well, the Federation has said that because of the need for urgent action there will have to be widespread grubbing of orchards at the conclusion of the present harvest. It estimated that as a result  production in the 1973 season would be reduced to 70 per cent of its present volume and in 1974 to no more than 50 per cent of its present volume. The Federation's great worry is that, with these greatly reduced quantities, servicing of industry requirements will be more difficult economically and there could be serious problems in arranging satisfactory shipping programmes. The Apple and Pear Growers Federation is alarmed that governments are going to all lengths to assist other new industries at a time when Tasmania is faced with the loss of one of its biggest and, in the past, best agricultural industries. 
The Federation points out, as I have said before, the economic circumstances and competitive conditions overseas make it imperative to establish an Authority if fruit growing is to continue as a major industry in Tasmania and if Tasmanian growers are to have any chance of competing satisfactorily with New Zealand and South Africa on overseas markets. The Federation believes that this is only the first step in a long process. The setting up of this authority is considered to be essential so that the industry can be properly assessed and all possible efforts can be made to get the industry into the Japanese and other Asian markets. The Federation believes that, despite the problems involved in the apple and pear industry, there is an urgent need for special consideration over and above the present measures that are being introduced - that is, loans and stabilisation schemes and the present tree pull scheme - and that this Authority should be responsible for the export of all apples. It believes that without the Authority, the Tasmanian industry would not be able to survive, lt is of interest that in this morning's Melbourne 'Sun' under the heading Angry growers left waiting' an article stated: 
The Rural Finance Commission office at Shepparton opened for business as usual yesterday. 
But later in the morning a deputation of angry orchardists found the staff had all gone. 
The growers met outside the State Government offices in  Wellford  Street at 10 a.m. and were advised by Federal . . . candidate  Mr John  Riordan about the tree pull scheme. 
Later, the growers decided to visit the RFC office on the first floor of the State building, but the caretaker stopped them. 
I am quoting this report because the growers are very angry about this scheme. The report continues: 
The growers, many of them soldier settlers from the Invergordon area and migrants from Shepparton properties, are annoyed over offers made by the Commission under the tree pull scheme. 
Growers were first told that they would be given $500 an acre to pull out fruit trees to halt overproduction. 
Applicants have been offered as low as $100 per acre. 
Soldier-settler growers have been told that any compensation they get must be returned to the Soldier Settlers Commission as payment off their properties. 
Of 122 applicants only one so far has accepted the Commission's offer. 
This is an illustration of the feeling towards this legislation throughout the whole of this industry because of the fear that only disappointment, frustration and heartache lies in front of the people engaged in it. I move: 
At end of motion add: ', but the Senate is of the opinion that The Schedule should make provision for (a) applications to be accepted up to 30th June 1974, and (b) assistance to be paid for trees removed up to 31st October 1974'. 
It is the Opposition's view, having mentioned that there will be many anomalies and difficulties to iron out in this scheme, some of which are already noticeable, that the 12 months period will not be sufficient. I admit that there are provisions in the Bill whereby reviews can be made. Clause 16 (1.) of the Schedule to the Bill provides: 
The operation of the Scheme in relation to all of the States will be reviewed from time to time as appropriate by the Commonwealth and the States in the light of experience in its administration. 
A period of 12 months is insufficient for all the assessments to be made in an exercise as far reaching and as final as the grubbing out of an orchard which has taken so long to mature and having regard to all the care and the basic investment involved, and because of the various fertilisers, the pruning, and the spraying that have been necessary. Therefore we feel that further time should be made available to see whether this scheme will work, whether it will be of advantage to the growers and so that all the difficulties can be ironed out in the process. 
The details of the scheme were outlined in the second reading speech of the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman). 
They were fairly widely debated in another place and I think it is sufficient for us to draw attention to the desperate plight of the apple and pear industry in Tasmania as well as to the great difficulties obtaining in South Australia in regard to citrus fruits. However the citrus fruit industry is not so much concerned as is the apple and pear industry and the canned fruits industry. 
It was announced this morning that there is to be further devaluation of sterling. This will add another straw to the already staggering load on the back of the apple and pear industry. The devaluation of the South African rand against sterling of approximately 12.4 per cent in November 1971, when the Australian dollar was divorced from its traditional ties with sterling and revalued at approximately 8 per cent against the United States dollar, has given the South African industry a most significant price advantage against Australia in the market place. This morning's decision by Britain to allow another sterling devaluation will compound the problem of the industry and reduce it to a level of almost complete despair. The whole position is very fluid. 
The apple and pear industry has built up a tradition throughout the world. As I said earlier, if we speak of Tasmania, we speak of apples, lt is an industry in which our people have taken great pride. I can leave it to honourable senators from Victoria to speak of the great fruit industry that has been built up in that State and the great credit that the growers have brought to Australia because of the quality of the fruit they have exported. 
This Bill is only an improvisation. Theri is nothing positive in it to give viability to this great industry. As requested in our amendment, we. think that more time should be allowed. A lot more humanitarianism and sympathy should be shown to these people who feel that the compensation is insufficient and that their future prospects in any alternative section of agriculture are not too bright either. We hope that the Government will see fit to extend the period of time in which this scheme is to operate. We hope that the people chosen to make the valuations will consider not only the straight out value of the fruit trees but also the hard work, the sweat and the toil that these great people have put into this industry and have built up. Now through no fault of their own they are finding that all their work is going for nought. I support the amendment. 
I ask the Minister for Health- 
The Metal Working Machine Tools Bounty Bill follows up the major recommendations of the Tariff Board report on metal working machine tools. The report pointed out that the production of machine tools, including power fed drilling machines, grinding machines, lathes and other special purpose machine tools formed the nucleus of a machine tool industry in this country and that the assistance by way of bounty and tariff protection will assure the retention of the experts and the expertise necessary for this highly technical industry to remain viable. The changes in the duty payable have already been effected and this Bill implements the recommendation relating to bounty assistance. The level of assistance by bounty will be assessed on 334 per cent of factory cost instead of the Tariff Board proposal that the bounty should be based on a percentage of the selling price. The eligibility for the bounty commenced on 14th April 1972 and will continue until 30th June 19 7 when there will be a further review of the industry by the Tariff Board. The Opposition supports this recommendation and the consequent Bill that is before the Senate, and gives it a speedy passage. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. If America signs the draft cease fire without the agreement of  President  Thieu in Saigon, will all allied forces in South Vietnam be withdrawn within 60 days? Will the 140 Australian advisers be included among these withdrawals or will our troops be required to stay in Vietnam under the agreement signed last March between Australia and Saigon? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI am not in a position to answer that question at question time, but I certainly will have it referred to the Minister for Defence without delay. 
The purpose of this Bill is to grant financial assistance to the States of Queensland, South Australia and Tasmania. Queensland is to receive SI Om, South Australia S21m and Tasmania $7,600,000. These payments are in accordance with the recommendations of the Commonwealth Grants Commission in its 39lh report. The special amounts that have been paid overall have been for the purpose of assisting the States which are classified as claimant States. While  I  would like to go into detail relating to the need for this assistance for both Queensland and South Australia,  I  feel that  I  should draw the attention of the Senate particularly to the position in which we find ourselves in Tasmania where, through our very difficult geographical position, the transport problems which are unique to Tasmania put a very severe strain on our finances. Development in that State is being inhibited in very many areas and our State is not advancing at anywhere near the rate of growth and the standard of development of the mainland States. Not only does this place a great burden on Tasmanian industries and the Tasmanian people but it also points up very strongly that the contribution of Tasmania to the national economy is less than it might be, given more favourable circumstances. 
We feel that the payment Tasmania is to receive under the Bill does not fully take into consideration the difficulties being experienced in developing Tasmania to a level comparable with the mainland States, taking into consideration the separation of our State from the mainland by Bass Strait and the absence of alternative forms of transport, such as road and rail transport, to sea transport that are available to the other States. We also have a small population which has a different structure from that of the other States and which requires greater expenditure on education and hospitals. Unfortunately the immigration programme that has been in operation for the last 25 years has not benefited Tasmania to the same extent as other States. The population growth of Tasmania is the lowest of all the Australian States and is showing a deterioration. Our percentage population increase is such now that very serious consideration will have to be given, particularly in view of the debate that has just taken place on urban development and decentralisation, to the great need for more industries in Tasmania and a build up of Tasmania's population. 
We also have a relatively slow rate of industrial development, and it is becoming more difficult for the authorities in our State to be able to attract new industries because of the great disadvantage of our isolation and the additional costs of freight and shipping to take the bulk of our production to the mainland and overseas. Although the cost of living in Tasmania compares favourably with the other States, we have a lower level generally of personal income, which in turn tends to discourage many of our younger executive types from staying in Tasmania and they migrate to the bigger metropolitan centres which offer the incentive of higher salaries. Over the years Tasmania has had to bear the burden of the economies of the past inasmuch as we have a rail system which was based on the 3-foot 6-inch gauge, and because of the geography of our State this system is not as adequate as other railway systems in Australia. 
One of the main factors that militates against Tasmania's development is the fact that so much of our exports, being primaryindustrial, have traditionally gone to the United Kingdom and to Europe. We see a big change in emphasis taking place because of Britain's entry into the European Common Market. This poses a very great problem to the Tasmanian Government, but we feel as though it is not a Tasmanian problem; it is a national problem. The government assistance we will need to readjust the pattern of our exports is growing more and more. The employment situation in Tasmania is causing Tasmanian people a great deal of concern. At the present time 2.24 per cent of our work force is unemployed. This is creating serious difficulties for people and also the State Government. Unemployment has always been a big problem in Tasmania because of the seasonal nature of many of our industries. While the Commonwealth has tried to assist in grants for rural unemployment relief, it has not in any way solved the continuing problem that Tasmania is experiencing. As I mentioned before, we are faced with the situation that our secondary industries have not expanded sufficiently. Even the reverse is the case. Some of our industries have already moved away to the mainland and others have indicated the possibility of this change taking place in their operations. Growing unemployment and slackening of industrial activity in our State means a continual decline in our industrial potential. 
While 1 would like to give a wider view of the position that is existing in our State at the preseent lime, I would like to emphasise the position that, we are in with regard to our shipping costs. This is the vital matter that affects so much of our exports and imports to and from Tasmania and has a very big bearing on the whole of our future. Although the Australian National Line has given a very fine service to our State over the years and has in the past tried to hold the freight rates down, growing costs in every direction have caused shipping costs to rise to such an extent that they are becoming a very serious problem. In 1970 the Senate Standing Committee on Primary and Secondary Industry and Trade, as it then was, in the course of its investigations of the freight rates on Australian National Line shipping services to and from Tasmania found that a high proportion of the costs associated with transporting goods to and from Tasmania by ship was made up of internal transport and wharfage costs which added to the overall expense of sending goods to and from Tasmania, despite the efforts made by the Australian National Line to avoid increases in its freight rates. Although the Commonwealth Grants Commission is working on a formula which it applies to most Australian States, I believe that more emphasis should be placed on the position in which Tasmania finds itself as a result of its isolation. 
Discussions have been held recently as to whether Tasmania should not sever its connections with the Commonwealth. Discussions of this type are a sign of discontent, rather than a practical solution of Tasmania's problems. The proposition has been put forward that Tasmania could become a duty free State. People would be encouraged to visit Tasmania from the mainland not only as tourists but also as private individuals seeking to obtain duty free many of the commodities which attract high rates of duty in Australia. In this way Tasmania's business activity would be increased. The fact that this line of thought is being considered in Tasmania should impress upon the Commonwealth Government and the Commonwealth Grants Commission that the people of Tasmania are suffering disadvantages that are not suffered by people in other Australian States. 
Whilst the grant that is provided through this legislation will to a certain extent relieve some of the financial difficulty that Tasmania is experiencing, the amount is still insufficient to provide the stimulus needed to achieve a viability and prosperity for Tasmania in the future. However, at this late stage of the parliamentary sittings, there is not much more which can be done to alter the situation. We make this plea to the Grants Commission and to the Commonwealth Government. I can assure Government supporters that a future Labor government will give close consideration to meeting many of the difficulties Tasmania is experiencing. We hope that this will be one of the keys to a brighter future for Tasmania and that a new government adopting a new approach will find different ways to assist Tasmania to achieve its share of the great benefits that are enjoyed by other Australian States. 
I suggest that the Senate debate the Customs Tariff Bill (No. 4) 1972, the Customs Tariff Bill (No. 5) 1972 and the Customs Tariff Validation Bill (No. 2) 1972 as cognate Bills. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Is the Government aware that the aftermath of the hurricane in Fiji is much more serious than originally assessed and that famine threatens 50,000 Fijians? In view of this situation does the Government believe that the cash grant of $25,000 is an adequate response in a time of disaster which is  gravely affecting the welfare of our near Pacific neighbour? Is further substantial support to be forthcoming? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Defence aware that serving members of the forces view with unredeemable cynicism the statement of the Minister for Defence on defence forces retirement benefits, defending a government that has made defence an issue to win elections for more than 20 years? Is he aware further of the dashed optimism of servicemen that the Jess Committee report would be adopted and that it reconfirms that serving soldiers, sailors and airmen are to be continued to be classified as second-class citizens by this Government? 
If there was any evidence of the quality of that question it was contained in the extravagant language used by the honourable senator in his opening sentence. Might T remind the Senate that the Minister for Defence issued his statement on Sunday - I think on Sunday evening. We sat all day yesterday, and today we have an honourable senator coming in with a great splurge about cynicism in the forces and making nonsensical claims about what members of the forces are alleged to have said. The honourable senator must be Mandrake because the statement was issued on Sunday. Statements usually are issued at 4 o'clock in the afternoon and it is now 20 minutes to 11 on Tuesday morning. The extravagant language which  Senator O'Byrne  has used is sought to be justified by what has emerged in the meanwhile. The question as posed is complete nonsense. I suggest that it does not rate a reply from me. I will send a copy of the statement issued by the Minister for Defence to the honourable senator after question time. 
asked the AttorneyGeneral, upon notice: 
Will the Attorney-General table in the Senate a summary of the Government's note in reply to the Government of Yugoslavia's protest that nothing had been done to prevent Yugoslav terrorists from training in Australia. 
Did the New South Wales police, in Wallsend Court, during the hearing of a charge against a Yugoslav migrant,  Mr N.  Miskovic, of possessing an unlicensed revolver state that the defendant had claimed that members of the Ustasha Movement had been in Newcastle 2 weeks earlier seeking him and another man and that he had carried the revolver for personal protection. 
Does the Attorney-General, in view of the constant references to the Ustasha Movement, still deny that a Croatian Liberation Movement, which obviously ignores semantics and uses the feared name Ustasha within the Yugoslav community, is active in Australia. 

 Senator GREENWOOD- The answers to the honourable senator's question are as follows: 
See answer to Question No. 2490 (Hansard, page 2223). 
Yes, but the defendant did not produce any corroborative evidence of his claim. He was subsequently convicted of the offence charged. (?) See answer to Question No. 2442 (Hansard, p:te 16&gt;5). 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer upon notice: 
Has compensation been paid to the nextofkin of Australian troops killed in Vietnam, both in relation to conscripts and volunteers. 
What is the amount, in approximate figures, and how are these amounts calculated. 
What has been the total amount paid out in compensation. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe Treasurer has provided the following reply to the honourable senator's question: 
Servicemen, whether conscripts or volunteers, allotted for special duties in a special area, such as Vietnam are eligible for benefits under the Repatriation (Special Overseas Service) Act 1962-1972 from the time of departure from the last port of call in Australia or from a point of allotment outside Australia until their arrival at the first port of call back in Australia or other point of allotment. War pensions are paid under this Act to the eligible dependants of Australian servicemen who were killed in Vietnam or who subsequently died as a result of their injuries at the same rates as pensions provided under the Repatriation Act 1920-1972. (The Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Act 1971 precludes payment of compensation to dependants of deceased servicemen where the dependants are entitled to benefits under the Repatriation (Special Overseas Service) Act 1962-1968). 
The rates of pension and allowance payable under the Repatriation (Special Overseas Service) Act 1962-68 to the categories of dependants of deceased servicemen are set out in the First and Third Schedules to the Repatriation Act 1920- 1972 and Repatriation Regulation 176d and are as follows: 
War Widow 
Pension. $40 a fortnight. 
Domestic allowance, $17 a fortnight. 
Children 
Single Orphan 
Pension, $14.70 a fortnight. 
Double Orphan 
Pension, $29.40 a fortnight. 
Mothers, Fathers and other close relatives 
Pension, $9 to $16.60 a fortnight (depending on service rank held by the deceased serviceman). 
These payments are free of income tax and are provided, in the case of war widows, orphans and widowed mothers, regardless of the dependant's other means. In addition to these payments, the Commonwealth provides free medical and paradical services to certain dependants (war widows, orphans and widowed mothers). The Commonwealth may also provide assistance to war widows in the form of training and, to the eligible children of deceased ex-servicemen, the Commonwealth may provide education assistance by way of allowances, fees, fares, books and equipment under the Soldier's Children Education Scheme. 
In the period from 31st July 1962 to the end of September 1972, approximately $785,000 has been paid in war pensions to dependants of Australian servicemen who were killed in Vietnam, or who subsequently died as a result of their injuries. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry. As the corriedale breed of sheep is evolved from the crossing of the merino breed with an English breed, with then a breeding back to what is virtually the comeback, will the Minister have an inspection made of a large flock of ewes and rams due to be exported soon from Victoria to South America to ensure that merino rams are not included among them? 
I ask the Minister for the Media: What arrangements, if any, is the Australian Broadcasting Commission making to have an ABC correspondent stationed in Peking now that Australia recognises the People's Republic of China? 
 I seek information by way of a question without notice directed to the Minister for Repatriation,  Senator Bishop,  who represents in this place the Minister for Labour,  Mr Cameron.  Both are South Australians. Does the Minister see the dramatic improvement in the figures released by the Department of Labour relating to the number of people unemployed in Australia as an indicator that Australia is on the move again after 23 years in the doldrums? Does this encouraging trend not indicate that there is a new confidence in this country in trade and industry which combined with good rains, high wool prices, increasing oil and gas discoveries 
lt is typical of the honourable senators who raised this matter without advising other honourable senators that they were raising the matter that they should try to take advantage of the misfortune of the Tasmanian orchardists to score a miserable political point. The point is that the orchardists have had 23 years of misgovernment at a Federal level. 
1 ask the Minister for the Media: ls it a fact that the Anderson survey on television ratings shows a general decline in the numbers of people watching television? Does this survey in any way agree with other surveys that have recently been taken? Will the Minister ascertain the reason for the sharp decline in television audiences? Will he, in conjunction with the Australian Broadcasting Control Board, endeavour to improve the quality of television programs in Australia? 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General. During his visit to the headquarters of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation in Melbourne did he not have to guard against leaks of information similar to leaks which are the subject matter of some of the questions asked today by Opposition senators? 
My question is directed to you,  Mr President.  During the course of question time yesterday you referred to the presence of a claque on your right and your left. Was that directed at any particular clerk - the  Clerk  of the Senate, the secretarial clerks or the clock that hangs on the wall in front of you? If not, did you mean a claque - pronounced c-l-a-c-k in the Oxford dictionary? If so, were you referring to the clacking that went on for  H  hours during question time yesterday and appears to be continuing today? 
I ask the AttorneyGeneral the following question: Last week during question time the Attorney referred to a document obtained from files which was not previously available to him and which concerned Croatian terrorists and departmental policy on security. Will the Attorney-General elaborate further on the contents of particular parts of this document, even to the extent of reading out the departmental minute to the Senate. 
The proposal to set up a joint committee on prices is much in the forefront of the minds of supporters of the Government. It is also a matter of tremendous importance to the people of Australia. We have just heard a speech fromSenator Cotton, who adopted an entirely negative approach to this proposition. Instead of appreciating the advantages at this late stage of some investigation of the causes of inflation and increasing prices and of the methods of coming to grips with these problems he resorted to the old-fashioned tactic of making an attack upon the public spending sector and of saying that the Australian Labor Party must be blamed for so many of the ills of our society.  Senator Cotton  should remember that in the 23 years during which the Government of which he was a member for quite a considerable period of time had control of the Treasury benches nothing was done about the attempt by the former Labor government to obtain constitutional power to control prices. 
The proposition that was put forward on Labor's behalf at that time explained to the people of Australia exactly what would happen as a consequence of there not being sufficient constitutional power for the Commonwealth Government to control prices. One of the greatest opportunities that any country has ever had to control inflation was available to Australia in the period shortly after the Second World War when our industries were gathering momentum, discoveries of our natural resources were taking place, our armed Services were being disbanded, people were returning to Australia from service overseas, we had a training scheme for our apprentices and we had land development schemes. We were then on the threshold of a new era for Australia. The worst influence that has pervaded our whole system ever since has been the inflationary process. 
Inflation has been described as the subtle thief that is ubiquitous, pernicious and insidious. It can be described in that way because one can never tell from which source it comes. One can never find out how it affects the economy, except as is reflected in the inflationary spiral. It is pernicious because it will eventually destroy the whole economy if allowed to continue. For the first time this Parliament has before it a genuine attempt to come to grips with the influence of inflation on our system and on our society, and what do we find? We find that members of the Opposition are getting up right at the start and trying to frustrate it. Fears have been generated by  Senator Cotton  that this proposed joint committee of both Houses of the Parliament will be dominated by the House of Representatives and by the Government. As that is where the responsibility lies, it would be argued that the Government should have the numbers to ensure that the committee carries out its functions in a proper manner. 
The whole of the prices structure today is such that no one fully understands how to come to grips with price rises. Some 18 months ago there was a prices and wages freeze in the United States of America. It lasted for a while. The machinery for it was set up on a voluntary basis by the  President  of the United States. One essential household commodity is meat. In the markets of the United States housewives are boycotting meat. Instead of being one of the staple products it will become a luxury. That is an example, of a completion of the cycle of inflation from which nobody benefits. We are attempting to find an answer from one direction and it is only from one direction. The committee will be able to go out to try to examine the sources and causes of inflation. It may be able to come up with recommendations as a lay committee of the Parliament. It will have, the authority to send for witnesses and papers. It will have technical advice from officers of the Parliament and people outside the Parliament so that it can get the problem into perspective. We will be making a start in collecting material and data for the possible setting up in future of a prices justification tribunal. 
The attitude of the previous Government over the years was that private, enterprise would find a level through supply and demand, but that theory has gone into the garbage tin. Today the individual entrepreneur is only a minor influence in the community. We are living in the day of monopoly capitalism, international and supra national monopolies, companies that are able to exercise influence on the economies of various countries throughout the world. The theory that supply and demand still exert influence is completely outdated. Pressures are applied right throughout the community. Until the restrictive trade practices organisation was set up actions took place to the point of becoming scandals. People were forcing up prices through monopolies and restrictive practices. Enormous profits were being made by the use of those techniques. Investigation is necessary in those areas to come to grips with inflationary problems and to strike a balance between prices and wages. 
There has been a long-standing argument about whether increases in wages or increases in prices come first, but I remind honourable senators that for over 60 years we have had a wages justification tribunal in this country. Advocates before industrial tribunals have had to submit reasons in support of applications for increases in wages. Basically judgments have been given because of the increasing cost of living. Very few judgments have granted wage increases without there being a corresponding increase in a previous period in the cost of living. To most people it is obvious that wage increases are the result of increasing prices. On the other hand, we have never had authority to have under control, surveillance or investigation of prices, an important part in the cost of living. Now a new Government has determined that it will face up to the issues that are dogging the economy, to tackle and grapple with them. 
I appreciate that it will not be a simple proposition in a capitalist economy containing so many self seekers and people dominated by greed for high profits and the power that comes from being in the top echelon of business administration. They will want the continuation of this type of economy. They can ride the wave of inflation. They have the authority to raise their prices and make their own charges, but what is happening to the people in the community who are on fixed incomes such as superannuation, people who have put away a nest egg for their retirement? They are being robbed by inflation and insufficient adjustments are made for them to maintain their standard of living. The effect of inflation on those people must strike, at the conscience of members of Parliament and other members of the community. Somehow or other, we must tackle the ever growing inflationary trend in Australia. 
The committee is to be set up to investigate complaints arising from prices charged by private industry. Every day the prices of commodities creep up. I have in mind bread, milk and smallgoods. 
It is supposed to be, but the prices are increasing all the time. Today in Canberra, or anywhere else in Australia, the price of land is increasing by from 10 per cent to 20 per cent every quarter. How much labour is involved in a block of land? 
There is not a lot of labour involved. There is no labour involved in a block of land. It is not necessarily sold with footpaths made and water connected. A developer pays for agricultural land at a price leaving him with a margin when he does subdivide it. Along the line the land was leasehold or freehold grazing land on the perimeter of a city. The owner of the land makes a very small contribution. Through increases in population brought about by a migration program sponsored by the taxpayers of the country pressure is placed on the expansion of the urban areas. The price of the land which was used for agricultural purposes suddenly increases to boom level. Yet no labour whatever has been put into it. It is straight-out profiteering and exploitation. The increased prices are placed on the backs of the working men when they marry and wish to buy a home in which to raise their families. They must carry this burden through the whole of their working lives. The increases were never earned and bore no labour content from the start. 
I am not objecting to anything at the moment. I am supporting the introduction of a joint committee on prices so that it can examine all factors including rentals and the contributions that people make towards their homes. They are very important factors in the cost of living. The community's standard of living is influenced by the cost of building blocks. That influence is felt throughout the whole of the community. Last night on the television program 'Monday Conference' some of the profits being made by Pitt Street farmers were mentioned. Now they are better known as Macquarie Street farmers and Collins Street farmers. 
They are having such a harvest prescribing drugs being made by overseas pharmaceutical companies which have a monopoly in Australia. Doctors are making a fortune prescribing drugs for people who are not being cured. They are being hooked on these drugs. These doctors are making such tremendous profits that they are getting on to the Country Party bandwagon and buying farms so that they will be able to get bigger tax concessions. They are not only putting up the the price of their services in the city but also putting a false value on land in the country. As a consequence, the neighbouring farmers want to put up the price of their land and resell it because of its potential for this type of development by the Collins Street or Macquarie Street farmers. Then the new holders expect higher prices for their commodities. 
These are the types of things that snowball as inflation gains momentum. It is in so many of these directions that nothing has been done over the last 23 years to try to come to grips with the problem. They are the advantages I put forward to the Senate for setting up this joint parliamentary committee to investigate prices. The committee would have to look into such matters relating to prices as may be referred to it. I believe that there are people throughout the community such as economists who have been doing research into this matter. If we look at the economic journals, we find that one of the dominant subjects is inflation. I am quite certain that there are people in this country who would come forward to a joint parliamentary committee which advertised its hearings and who would want to make a contribution towards the solution of this very serious problem, lt disgusts me to hear the remarks of members of the Opposition when someone comes forward with a constructive idea when they have such a long record of negativism and indolence. As far as inflation is concerned, they have gone backwards because they have been so negative. AH they can do at a time like this is criticise the Government that has been in power only for 3 months. We hear this carping criticism in a destructive vein to try to secure some cheap, miserable, political point out of it. 
I think that it is an insult to the Parliament to say that the area of inquiry should be extended out into the public sector. Of course, the inquiry will go into the public sector. It will go over the whole field of our economy because, as I said, to come to grips with this problem we have to come to grips with pernicious and insidious influences. There is no argument against the Parliament's taking on the responsibility and both Houses delegating their authority to this committee to do 'the job and see what they can find out about this inflationary process and how prices are affecting it. I am quite certain that if the employees of this country knew that we were coming to grips with prices and that there was a possibility of stabilising the economy, there would be a tremendous desire on their part to co-operate with the employer to see whether we could not get Australia on a more sound economic footing. 
I put this forward as one of the recommendations that the committee could make when it sees the imbalance between the employer and the employee and between wages and prices: It could recommend that the working man should be represented on the boards of all the monopolistic companies operating in Australia. It could recommend that there be close liaison between management and employees to get this co-operation. The only way in which a modern society can exist today is through participation - through people feeling that they are doing something and achieving something. That is why the people of Australia today are seeing through the fog of the past and can see some sense of national purpose. They can see that Australia is going places and can see the future - the vision splendid - being achieved under this Government. Yet when we start' to lay the ground work for the preparation of this future, all we get from the Opposition is this carping type of criticism. 
They would not be game enough to oppose it. They know very well that their present flimsy little share of electoral support which is declining every week or every month - it is down to about 30 per cent now - would dwindle even further if they had the temerity to oppose the establishment of this committee. They would be just trying to add to the bandwagon of people right throughout the whole spectrum of Australian life - in the stock exchanges and people in business - who are trying to find some way to thwart and frustrate this Government. They are trying to spread a feeling of pessimism that the Government is not doing any good and that it cannot do any good. But if we look at the reports of many companies we find that they are turning in very substantial returns. Their profit margins may be stabilising compared to what they have been over the last 10 years when they have been going sky high and helping these inflationary processes to continue. Now they are having another look at things. 
Of course, we have seen devaluation, revaluation and the other things brought about by inflation in other countries. These are the international problems that other countries are trying to tackle. We are trying to do the same thing by setting up this committee. I support its establishment because I believe it is in the best interests of Australia. I believe that if we do not come to grips with inflation, it will be the greatest enemy that we face. It is worse than a fifth column, worse than treachery or even worse that the Croats in our midst because we cannot come to grips with it. Inflation involves subtle and insidious influences. After a long period of neglect of this problem, the previous government was thrown out of office last December because the people knew that it was not fair dinkum in trying to come to grips with inflation. 
There is a vested interest in inflation for many people. They want to see prices rise because they can cover up higher profits and find greater areas for exploitation. 
I suppose that under our present system, right throughout the whole field of business, if you do not break all the rules in the good book, virtually steal from people by over-charging, do not bear false witness against them and do not try to beat them, you cannot succeed. This shows the complete hypocrisy of our system. It is catching up with those involved. We have to get down to a standard of morals in business. This is the great problem being faced in most parts of the world today. I was in the United States of America about 18 months ago. Honourable senators could not see a sicker society because people do not trust one another. Americans have become complete individuals. They are frightened to speak to one another. If someone is knocked down on the street, they will not go to the victim's assistance because they are afraid they might get involved in a court case and it may cost them some money. Society in that country is tottering morally and socially and we do not want to follow them. 
We followed the United States far enough into the mire. We heard the call 'all the way with LBJ'. We became involved in the Vietnam conflict. What did we get out of it? Nothing. We want to carve our own way as our own nation. We want to fulfil the destiny of our own people. This is what we want in Australia. The Government wants to make a start early in its time in the Parliament to come to grips with the very controversial and very vexed problem of inflation and prices. Therefore, I want to give my fullest support to the motion. I hope that the Senate will see the advantages of setting up this joint parliamentary committee. 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General. In view of the psychopathic nature of the oaths taken by certain members of an ethnic group in which they swear by Almighty God that they will overthrow by violence the Government of a friendly nation, will the Attorney-General take the necessary action of sending by letter a warning to all Yugoslavs who claim to be Croats that such activity contravenes the Crimes Act and that the penalty is imprisonment or deportation or both? 
I ask the AttorneyGeneral whether his attention has been drawn to a television statement made by the former Attorney-General,  Senator Greenwood,  that he was in favour of a royal commission comprised of judges being set up to inquire into Croatian terrorism but that he would not support the members of the royal commission if they were appointed by the Attorney-General. Does not this statement cast a slur on the judiciary of this country and imply that any judge appointed by the Attorney-General could not be trusted to carry out his duties with integrity and impartiality? 
Before the motion is put I would like to make an explanation to the Senate. The suggestion in the motion is that on Tuesdays we meet from 2 p.m. until 6 p.m. and that on Wednesdays we sit until 11 p.m. I think the suggestion for Thursdays is that we sit until 5.45. Some thought has to be given to (he numerous committees that have been set up. The business of the Senate involves very important committee work besides the general routine of Senate business. In addition, the parties have numerous sub-committees to which they refer Bills and they expect reports back to their party meetings. We have to consider carefully the division of the time available while we are in Canberra. 

 Senator Drake-Brockman said that he did not want to have to travel a long distance to come here on Tuesdays and then do very little. The idea behind the new hours was that Tuesday nights could be devoted to meetings of Senate committees. There are not very many honourable senators who are not now involved in committee work. We either have to hold committee meetings during the sittings of the Senate or times have to be found for them when the Senate is not sitting. This matter should be given some consideration before we get too deeply involved in the future. Now that we have reverted to the old hours we will have to make other arrangements in order to give some time to committee meetings. 
I hope that the Leader of the Government  (Senator Murphy)  and the leaders of the Opposition parties will get together and examine this problem of how we are to sort out the virtual impasse that has been reached. The importance of committee work is growing but the hours of sitting of the Senate have been kept at the previous level. We sit all day Tuesday and on Tuesday night. We have our party meetings on Wednesday morning and we sit in the afternoon and at night until 11 p.m. We sit right through Thursday until 10.30 p.m. 
Yes, I stand corrected. However we will have to give some consideration to sitting on Fridays or on Mondays. 
The Whips actually were responsible for the motion before the Senate to devote Tuesday night and Thursday night to committee work. However it worked out that the Government was handing time over on a platter to the Opposition, which could use the time to get stuck into the Government. We therefore are very pleased to revert to the old hours. I can assure the honourable senator of that. However, I want to draw the attention of the Senate to the importance of committee work. I point out the growing number of committee meetings and the time factor involved. Somehow or other we will have to sit either on Mondays or Fridays or on Mondays and Fridays in order to get through the business of the Senate and of the committees. 
I support the motion, which has been moved by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Murphy),  expessing condolence to the family of the late  Sir Arthur  Fadden. My association with  Sir Arthur  Fadden goes back to the time when I first became a senator. That was in 1946. The association continued from that time until he retired from Parliament. He was held in very high esteem not only in the Parliament but throughout the country. I would say that his most outstanding characteristic was the extra ordinary width, of- his talents and- the quality of his personality. In my view, he was a classic example of a- man who had. . his values in the right order of priority for he believed and knew, in his maturity, that to be able to smile was to disarm. He appreciated people. With his sense of humour, people were attracted to him naturally, and they were impressed by his other qualities. 
I call on Rudyard Kipling for a quotation.  Sir Arthur  was. truly a man who could mix with crowds ne'er lose his virtues and mix with kings ne'er lose the common touch. He went through his life leaving among the people with whom he associated the memory of a happy, kindly and forthright personality; but those people were always  in no doubt that he was a man of determination and integrity.  His  contemporaries in Parliament who met him on committee work and in other spheres have suffered a ' personal loss as a result of his passing, but they will retain a continuing pleasure in having known an outstanding parliamentarian and- a gentleman. I wish to extend to his family my sincerest sympathy in their loss of a great husband, father and citizen of the Commonwealth. 
Can the AttorneyGeneral tell the Senate whether, if the deleterious effects upon the health and welfare of the Australian population from fallout from atmospheric testing by the French Government in the Pacific reach a level of considerable concern, the effect upon the entire populations of peoples living in the Pacific basin will be even greater? 
 I point out to the Senate that this discussion arises over the placing of General Business which takes precedence over Government Business after 8 p.m. on Thursdays. Whatever the Opposition sees fit to bring forward for debate during its time is its business. The Opposition suggests to me the way in which it wishes to have its business carried out and I can only agree with the suggestion. Not only does the Opposition have the numbers on its side, but this is its time for debate. Therefore, as far as I am concerned, I am just advised of it. I will look after Government Business, and the Opposition has to look after its own business. 
The sponsors of this motion which seeks to set up  a  select committee for the purpose of inquiring into and reporting on certain actions and activities which have transpired over the past 10 or 15 years in Australia have surprised the people of Australia. I am amazed that honourable senators opposite have the temerity to present to this Parliament what could be called a virtual whitewash of a group of lunatic fringe migrants who call themselves the Croatian Revolutionary Brotherhood. After years of protection by the previous Government, with a new Government in power which is determined to stamp out the terrorism, the bomb throwings and the attempted assassinations that have been going on in Australia- 
By the lunatic fringe group with which the honourable senator sympathises and which the previous Government has been protecting in this country for the past 20 years. 
I will give the honourable senator a little evidence. This is a little bit of evidence from Garfield Barwick as he then was, Minister for External Affairs, who is now  Sir Garfield  Barwick, Chief Justice of the High Court. 
It is some of the information which has been made available since 2nd December and which has been tabled in the Senate. During all the years that the previous Government was supposedly pro tecting the interests of Australian people, this information was available. It was never acted upon. I want to read to the Senate a letter which was written by Garfield Barwick to the then Attorney-General. 
The honourable senator can read that when I table the letter. He said to the Attorney-General: 
My dear Attorney . . . 
It was 6th January 1964. I am complaining that this cancer has been in our community since 1964 and earlier. I wish to diverge for a moment. I saw this cancer in Europe while I was a victim of the fascists, the Gestapo and the Croatian brotherhood type of activity when Ante Pavelic, this so-called leader of Croatia, collaborated with Hitler and took part in the burning, murdering and gassing of millions of innocent Europeans for a number of years. To think that in this Parliament people would whitewash, cover up and protect such people who have migrated here to get away from the judgment that should have been passed upon them because they participated with Hitler, the Gestapo and Ante Pavelic- 
The honourable senator is trying to divert me. He is using the diversionary tactics which he uses all the time. I am telling him the facts. Croatia was the headquarters of Ante Pavelic, the beloved leader of this lunatic fringe group of people who have gone abroad and who have come to Australia. Some of them are still here. They will be quietened down now that a firm government is in control of this country. The Government will try to restore a little stability and sanity in the streets, in the churches and in various places in Australia where these ratbags - one cannot describe this lunatic fringe group as anything else but ratbags - operated. Yet the previous Government did nothing about them. I will proceed to read this letter from  Sir Garfield  Barwick. He said: 
My dear Attorney, 
My attention has been drawn to the record of proceedings of an interdepartmental meeting held on 25th November to consider the implications for the Australian Government of the behaviour, culminating 
In the arrest in Yugoslavia earlier this year of 9 members of the so-called Croatian Revolutionary Brotherhood, of a group of extremists among our immigrant population. 
Our colleague, the Minister for Immigration is concerned about hostilities within local communities, particularly in relation to their effect on the problem of assimilation. For my own part, I am disturbed at the foreign policy implications of such activity which may embarrass our relations with other governments. We have already received a formal .Note from the Yugoslav Government conveying the view, which we have of course rejected, that the Australian authorities were acquainted with the organised activity of the Croatian fascist emigrants and were, to say the least, tolerant towards them. I am anxious to prevent any recurrence of behaviour, either on the part of Yugoslavs or any other national minority groups, which adversely affects our external relations, and I have asked the Minister for Immigration to consider what positive steps might be taken to restrain them. 
In essence, the problem is one of keeping an eye on immigrant extremists, while operating within the framework of existing law and practice. 
This is what  Sir Garfield  advised the AttorneyGeneral to do. 
He cannot hide, under the, shadow or umbrella of 9 years ago. This was a problem then and it is a problem today. These people went to Yugoslavia for the purpose of carrying out their Croatian Brotherhood oath. They swore by Almighty God that they would carry out the methods  of  the Brotherhood, that they would practise bow to manufacture bombs and how to commit assassination. 
This is in a document which  Senator Murphy  was able to table, in  the  Senate. This was never done by previous governments. Now we see the temerity of people in this Parliament who want to protect these people in our society. That is exactly what has been done. Yet very few people in this Parliament understand the way in which these people work. They have been trained as terrorists or commandos. Many people who defend them would not know the first thing about war. They were in  'B'  company - they would be there when others were going away and they would be there when they came back. That was their war experience. But people who went through the horrors  of  war know the influence of these, people in Europe  who  collaborated with Hitler, who disturbed the whole' of Europe during this period and who brought this great catastrophe to mankind. Such people now want to come to Australia to continue this kind of activity, with the vain hope and some stupid idea that they can go back and repeat their previous performance.  Sir Garfield  in his letter said that the problem is one of keeping an eye on these people. He continued: 
With this end in mind, I should like to suggest that the: Australian Security Intelligence Organisation should -maintain some supervision over migrant groups (making no attempt to disguise its surveillance) and bring to your attention any activities which might be considered to have contravened sections 30(A) or' section 30(C) of the Crimes Act. 
Then he said: 
In appropriate circumstances, it may be necessary to consider the desirability of prosecutions under the Act . . . 
Further on he said: 
As an illustration of the type of activity which is causing me some concern, 1 attach a copy of a recent Note from the Yugoslav Consulate-General complaining of certain alleged deeds by migrants and their associates in Australia. . 
The letter is signed by.  Sir Garfield  Barwick.  1  have another letter from Phillip Lynch. 
It 1  is  dated 3rd December 1969, which was some years later, but it shows that it was a continuing problem. He said:  .. 
My dear Attorney-General, 'I feel it is necessary to bring to your attention my concern at the likely serious consequences if Croat nationals in Australia are permitted-- to -continue unchecked their terrorist activities and .outrages against representatives of the Yugoslav Government and authority generally in this country. 
Minister for Immigration then. 
Yes. He continued: 
I have reason to believe that the terrorists are endeavouring to create the impression amongst Yugoslav migrants in Australia that the Croatian extremists have the support df significant sections of Australian society and even of the Government. 
The bombing attack last week on the Yugoslav Embassy in Canberra (which was apparently intended to coincide' with the Yugoslav National Day on 28lh November), the evidence of a deliberate attempt to fire the Immigration Offices at Barton on the evening of 1st December, the bombing ' of the Yugoslav Consulate-General in Sydney earlier- iri the year are evidence of a pattern of 'extremist activity which should be capable of preventive measures by the law authorities. 
Who said this? This is what Phillip Lynch, then Minister for Immigration, said in a letter to the Attorney-General in 1969. What was done? When  Senator Murphy  tackles this problem with courage, intelligence and vigour, we have simpering people coming here and trying to kid me and to pull the wool over the eyes of the Australian people by saying that something wrong has been done. They are indicating their philosophy, their ideology and the fact that they are sympathisers with people who are murderers, burners and bombers in our community. We have to control them and keep surveillance over them, as  Sir Garfield  Barwick has suggested. Phillip Lynch in his letter continued: 
The Prime Minister has recently approved a visit to Australia by  Mr  Polajner  a senior Minister in the Yugoslav Government in connection with the signing of the Migration Agreement with Yugoslavia on which agreement is expected shortly to be reached wilh the Yugoslav delegation at present in Canberra. 

 Senator Gair and those who sit with him are talking about the Slovenes, the Macedonians, the Montenegrins, the Ukrainians and also the Serbians. But if these people claim to have those nationalities they are here under false pretences. They came here as Yugoslavs and they acquired Australian citizenship. They renounced their Yugoslav nationality when they came here. There is no recognition of the names included in the motion. 
 I would have more chance of proving my ancestors than I think  Senator Little  would have. Phillip Lynch in his letter continued: 
Publicity surrounding the visit of  Mr Polajner  to Australia cannot be avoided and I believe it essential thai every safeguard be taken to avoid serious incidents associated with his presence in Australia which could well have serious  consequences. 
In this ersatz - to use a European word - motion before the Senate  Senator Gair  is complaining because we take precautions to protect visitors from other countries. 
 Senator. Hannan's  Government was in power when Phillip Lynch wrote that letter. He asked for every safeguard to be taken to avoid serious incidents. Then he said: 
Apart from this immediate Issue and the inevitable involvement of human life, I am moreover concerned with the likely effect upon our relations with Yugoslavia ... 
What do the Democratic Labor Party and  Senator Gair,  who moved this motion, care about the likely effect? Phillip Lynch continued:   . . especially in terms of our migration arrangements with that country, of continued incidents of this kind and the apparent inability of the law authorities to apprehend offenders. 

 Senator Murphy got the law. authorities to apprehend the offenders, and he will continue to do so with the full backing of his Cabinet and of Government supporters. The position is that these people from the Revolutionary Brotherhood travelled from Australia to Yugoslavia for the purpose of assassination and sabotage in order to be true to the Croatian Revolutionary Brotherhood oath which they swore by Almighty God, but they got caught in the act. Here an attempt is being made to blame  Senator Murphy  because of the action he took. But these members of the Croatian Revolutionary Brotherhood returned to Yugoslavia with the specific intention of murder, assassination and bombing. 
 Because they had sworn to do that. 
 I have a copy of the oath that they take. It comes from the ASIO files. If honourable senators opposite had taken the trouble to read those documents they would have seen that we are dealing with people who really should be written off as absolute lunatics. They should be cared for as very sick people. They should be treated as mentally ill persons because that is what so many of the Croats who take this oath are. 
Yes, that is right. Yesterday some crank was found boarding an aircraft with a machine gun and a bike chain. One cannot understand the mentality of these people. They have introduced elements and activities into this country which are completely foreign to our way of life. Yet, when men like  Senator Murphy  have the courage to come. to grips with these people, so-called concern is expressed for the civil rights of these people who in fact are violating our civil rights. 
This whole exercise has been a cover up.  Senator Greenwood,  when Attorney-General, refused to answer questions on this matter. We knew of the activities of the Croatians.  Senator Mulvihill  continuously brought to the attention of the Senate the activities of this lunatic fringe.  Senator Greenwood  evidently knew of these records that were in the possession of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. But all he would say was that there was no such organisation as the Ustasha. He never admitted the existence of the Croatian Revolutionary Brotherhood or the chain of organisations which were exposed when the ASIO files were tabled in the Senate. 
I can document everything that I am saying.  Senator Webster  sits there like a Country Party cocky, chirping on the fence. You document your speech when you make it. I am prepared to say where my information has come from. I do not need to refer to the documents that have been tabled. I have here a story of the leader of these people, Anton Pavelic. I quote from the book That Day Alone' by Pierre van Paassen.  This is his description of the beloved leader of the Croatian Revolutionary Brotherhood, Anton Pavelic: 
Anton Pavelic is the model fascist: Ruthless and utterly unscrupulous, boundlessly ambitious and cruel. He has violated every law and he has never needed a pretext when he sought to betray. 
While I was a prisoner of war in Germany, this man was operating in Europe. He was the great leader of this lunatic fringe, the Croatian Revolutionary Brotherhood. Pierre van Paassen continues: 

 His cruelties spring not from the heat of his blood, but from cool, calculating meditation. Tall, well-built, good looking and possessing an ingratiating manner, Pavelic lived on the fringe of an international society which had its centres in Berlin, Paris, Deauville, and Monte Carlo in the post-war years. An adventurer of sharp practices and equally dubious antecedents, he lived tortuously on his wits, sold himself brazenly to the highest bidder, and had a very foul reputation. 
An attempt is being made to' draw a red herring across the trail with respect to what this Government is trying to do to protect Australian citizens from this' type of activity. This is being done by members of the Australian Democratic Labor Party, who have been elected by people in the States of Victoria, New South Wales ' and Queensland, by Country Party senators such as  Senator Web  ster and by., senators like  Senator Hannan  from Victoria. The Australian electors believe that those honourable senators are representing their interests in the Senate. Yet, these people bring before the Senate a motion of this type seeking to protect the kinds of people whom I have described. This is a diversionary tactic. 
An inquiry has been held already. Honourable senators opposite have already tried  Senator Murphy.  They have found him guilty. Most of those honourable senators voted last night in favour of retaining the death penalty, that is, by hanging. If they had the opportunity, they would probably hang  Senator Murphy.  Honourable senators opposite do not like  Senator Murphy.  They have a hang, up about him. because the quality of his intellect and his energetic pursuit to enforce the principles that are right and to protect civil liberties p':ace him far above anyone on the Opposition side. Next week in The Hague,  Senator .Murphy  will present the Government's case against nuclear explosions by the French in the Pacific.  Senator Murphy  will be seeking to preserve the lives and good health of future generations of Australians. This man, capable of doing all these things, is being degraded by people who, by comparison, are underlings, not fit to clean his boots. 
I feel quite strongly about this matter. I have been through the mill and have vivid memories of the activities of Croatians when they were astride Europe. In collaboration with Hitler they were ruthless, bloodthirsty murderers. I did not think that I would ever live to see the day when honourable senators opposite would gang up together in this very unhappy .marriage-- (Honourable senators interjecting)- 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - Order! Honourable senators know that it is disorderly to conduct disputes across the chamber. I am a most patient man in the Chair, as Honourable senators will have observed. But there are limits to my patience. I will not permit this sort of behaviour to continue. 
-The howling that has just come- from Opposition senators is an indication that they are most unhappy about sponsoring this motion. We know that the Leader of the Opposition in another place,  Mr Snedden,  has more or less disowned this action. We know of the political pressures that are being faced because of pre-selection battles and the like that are imminent. The moving of this motion represents the lousy deal which has been made to take this action in order to satisfy the little splinter group in the corner whose members more than ever are sympathisers with the lunatic fringe that is with us in our society and to which 1 have just referred. That is why those honourable senators have initiated moves for the establishment of this committee. They have been protecting this lunatic fringe. Their responsibility for this action is shared by Country Party senators too. The Country Party with the splinter group has held the balance of power in the past and kept the former Government in power. I can illustrate my claim further. The League of Rights has a sprinkling of strong supporters amongst honourable senators on the Opposition side. If ever there was a reactionary, despicable organisation, it is the League of Rights. Have honourable senators ever seen a more reactionary, despicable organisation? It represents every evil. It is racist and sectarian and supports apartheid. Its principles are reactionary and detestable in relation to what the average Australian accepts as political and ideological activities. Let me say that we can see emerging the pattern that developed with the DLP working as a pressure group on the former Government. One could call members of the Democratic Labor Party extremists because they are sympathisers with the people in this lunatic fringe, these collaborators with Hitler. They collaborate with these reactionaries. We see how the DLP applies pressure on all these issues. Normally members of the Liberal Party would take a more moderate view on many of these social issues, but the DLP is prodding them into getting people fanatical. These are emotional issues about which many people throughout this country get tense and afraid. That is caused by the pressure that the DLP is putting on the Opposition. People are wondering about this very unhappy marriage of the Country Party and the Democratic Labor Party; this marriage of the hicks and the micks, as people call it. People are wondering how the 2 parties will ever disengage. At present the Australian people are a wakeup to the DLP. They realise that the DLP has been flushed out by  Senator Murphy.  They are aware of its activities and its close collaboration with this lunatic fringe. 
 Exactly what it means, and the material that is flushed is, in my view, the material that the DLP likes. I want to make this point in conclusion- 
 I will mention Cain and Abel. Back in history one fellow could not get on with his brother, so he did the same thing as the Croatian Revolutionary Brotherhood is doing; he killed his brother. I object strongly, as did other honourable senators earlier this evening, to the time of the Senate being taken up when important business could be before us in the interests and for the well-being of ex-servicemen in respect of their housing, the education of our children and other important issues. This motion is a red herring and a diversion brought forward by the Opposition. The Opposition wants to set up a committee on a pretext of finding out whether the civil rights of migrant Australians, particularly members of. the Croatian community, have been infringed. What should be done is that the honest to goodness Yugoslavs should be encouraged to isolate this lunatic fringe and should let the people of Australia and everyone else know about it. 
The people in this lunatic fringe have been standing over them. They have been standing outside factories collecting levies from other Yugoslavs under the guise of being the true full-blooded Croats who will liberate their country. It is known and it is on record in the files of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation that these people are fanatical enough to cut their arms and mix their blood, saying that it is the blood of the fatherland. You would not read about it in a deadwood dick. 
lt is virtually witchcraft and it shows their stupidity. They are about on an equal level of intellect with members of the Democratic Labor Party because they are such close collaborators and sympathisers. I can say on behalf of my colleagues on this side of the chamber that we reject this proposition. Not only is it frivolous, but it is degrading the committee system of the Senate. One would be laughed out of court by any intelligent Australian if one went along and tried to ask questions about this matter. The Australian people know the answers. 
 Mr President,  my question is directed to you in your capacity as co-custodian of the security of Parliament House. In view of the scandalous revelations of what is known in the United States as the Watergate Affair', where widespread bugging activities are alleged, what provisions have been made to guard against the possibility of buggers operating in party rooms - in Parliament House? 
The honourable senator who has just spoken talks about dishonour. He speaks with the voice of experience in the Senate. During the time that the senator has been in the Senate he brought the greatest discredit to himself when, in a case in Hobart, he persecuted a man, Professor Orr, into the ground. The senator was condemned by his archbishop. 
He used the confidences of the archbishop, who received the confidences in the confessional, in a court to persecute a university professor. His own brother had to come to the professor's assistance. He would not speak to him for  17  years. This imitation of  a  specimen of humanity comes here and talks about honour. 
I  ask  you! 
I  am giving you the home facts about our friend from the deep south. Honourable senators have referred to courtesy arrangements which prevail in the Senate. I believe that courtesy applies to the Address-in-Reply to the Governor-General's Speech which states: 
We, the Senate of the Commonwealth of Australia in Parliament assembled, desire to express our loyalty to our Most Gracious Sovereign. 
They are words of courtesy. The arrogant, authoritarian and irresponsible Opposition will not allow these courtesies to be carried out. They append to this message of courtesy intolerable and objectionable amendments which make it impossible to carry out these courtesies. 
Let me refer to the tactics that have been used by the Opposition. The Opposition has now brought about a situation that is absolutely intolerable and is bidding fair to making this Senate unworkable. The Australian Democratic Labor Party  - a  minority group, the actual leaders of the Opposition, the blackmailing splinter group, the pressure group, the de facto leaders of the Opposition - is pressurising the other Opposition groups in the Senate and is taking the business out of the hands of the Government.  1  repeat that in these circumstances that Senate will not operate. The Government has to make every effort to run its own business. The whole attitude of the Democratic Labor Party over the period since this Senate assembled in February has been one of vindictiveness, of spleen and of psychopathic hatred, not only of the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  but also of the whole of the Australian Labor Party. The DLP has a guilt hang-up from its misguided attempts to take over the Australian Labor Party. Ever since then the DLP has been acting like people who have a psychopathic approach to their opponents. 
 That is the courtesy to which the DLP is referring. The Government is under no obligation to help the Liberal Party. We do not recognise pairs with the DLP at all; we do not recognise any other pairs. It was a DLP motion. We feel that we are not under any obligation whatever to assist the Opposition when it is being led by the Australian Democratic Labor Party on  a  motion introduced into the Senate for the reasons I have stated already, namely, vindictiveness and hatred. Tonight,  Senator Carrick  showed without a shadow of doubt the purpose behind the motion that was before us. 
We of the Government took this motion to be a vote of no confidence in our Leader. The traditions of the Senate are that no pairs are granted in a vote on a motion of no confidence. We felt also that, the Government has to run the business of the Senate and that we will observe the traditions as long as they are observed by other honourable senators. Those arrangements that have been mentioned by  Senator Murphy  and which have been observed for 60 years have been broken at the instigation of the DLP. The traditional representation on Senate committees is set out clearly by  Mr Odgers  in 'Australian Senate Practice'. In the case of every type of committee with which he deals, he shows that there is at least equality of numbers or a government majority. 
The motion was debated until  Senator Turnbull  moved an amendment to rectify the position that has been taken by the Opposition. I felt that the Opposition had every opportunity then to rectify the situation, this breaking of tradition and courtesies and this departure from what has been the usual practice in the Senate. When that vote was taken and we saw that the arrogant, authoritarian and irresponsible Opposition was not prepared to observe the courtesies of the Senate I decided that pairs were off. As long as members of the DLP are leading the Opposition, all pairs are off. 
That is right. Of course we would not give them pairs. We have never given pairs to members of the DLP. 
As I stated before, the Government took this motion as a motion of no confidence in  Senator Murphy.  From the point of view of honourable senators on this side, this was as much a conscience vote as any vote we have ever taken. We saw this arrogance of the DLP, supported, aided and abetted by the Opposition. The calling off of the pairs was a drastic move to meet a drastic situation and was quite justified. As I see the situation, if the Opposition continues to carry on in the way it is carrying on now, it will destroy the Senate committee system. Also, it will put the Senate into the position in which consideration will have to be. given to whether these committees are being set up to improve and to widen the activities of the Senate, to help in the good government of this country, or whether the committee system is being used only as a subterfuge. We will have to see whether the system is being used by groups in the Senate to take revenge on a Government that they were not able to beat at the polls and which they are now trying to take it out on temporarily while they have the numbers. 
I do not intend to accept the proposition that was put forward by  Senator Withers.  I have no apologies to make to him. I believe that, unless he is able to put up a better effort in leadership of the Opposition, he can consider his position to be in jeopardy, because he is not showing leadership. He is being led by  Senator Greenwood,  who is showing all the potential of going up the wall with his absolute jealousy of  Senator Murphy  because  Senator Murphy  would more than match him on every level - intellect, experience, action, energy and every other level. We have found out that, over the period of years when we were questioning  Senator Greenwood  about the operations of terrorists in this country, he either was grossly ignorant or was lying in what he told this Senate.  Senator Murphy  has been able to produce the documents and background to show that  Senator Greenwood  was protecting these people, which did great discredit to the office of Attorney-General and to the Senate. What is worse is that  Senator Greenwood,  who has had a classical education, is being led by a little toad from Queensland' 
I will alter the description  to bull frog  -  90 per cent frog and 10 per cent bull. 
I did not address them to  Senator Byrne. 
What do I have to withdraw? 
I said 'toad'. 
I withdraw it. What has been said tonight has not done the Senate any credit. We believe that the future will decide whether this conduct is to continue in the Senate, with the arrogance of the Opposition. The only way that this matter will be resolved, of course, is the way in which a resolution was made on 2nd December. The people themselves will have to determine this impasse, and the quicker they do the better it will be for Australia. 
I apologise to  Dr Young,  the Archbishop of Hobart, if he has been involved in this debate because I made the mistake of referring to the Archbishop of Hobart rather than the Archbishop of Tasmania. 
The Anglican Bishop,  Dr Cranswick,  The information I had of this breach of confidence came from  a  man who is now dead, a man who was driven to death by the worst conspiracy that has ever happened in the history of Tasmania; a man who gave the story of an indiscretion on his way out to Tasmania on board a ship; a man who was prepared to write  an  open letter to the newspapers and to ask the Premier of Tasmania to have an investigation into the administration of the University of Tasmania. Every word that the Professor wrote in his open letter was later proved. He was able to bring about a complete reform of the University in Tasmania, but as a reprisal to beat this man, when he appealed against his dismissal from the University, a cooked-up dismissal,  Senator Wright  turned the case into a court case in which this man was degraded. Every stunt was used. People were introduced to try to shoot this man when he answered his telephone at the window. The phone number was dialled, the man answered the phone and  a  shot was fired. Every bit of intrigue in the book that was possible was used and  Senator Wright  was the man who hounded this man into the grave.  His  own brother pursued this case for 17 years and the University paid Professor Orr's widow compensation after  all  these years. I raise this matter because  Senator Wright  got up the other night  and  talked about honour. This was the basis  of  my reminding him of some of his black crows that are coming home to roost and are roosting uneasily on his shoulders. Some people have a memory and  a  lot  of  people remember what  Senator Wright  did, for the fleeting moment of glory,  to  get his revenge. Professor Orr told me that the only man who knew of his indiscretion on the ship was the reverend Bishop of Tasmania, who I mistakenly referred to as  Dr Young. 
The Right Reverend Bishop of Tasmania. The Bishop of Tasmania resigned his post and is now in retirement in Tasmania. 
Not from  Dr Wright,  anyway. When  Senator Wright  brings his type of tactics into the Senate to say that the honour of the Senate is impugned he speaks in divers tongues,  a  split schizophrenic tongue, to make out that he is the upholder and custodian of all things righteous, and yet in his other personality, his Hyde personality - knowing his Jekyll - he tries to create standards that we know very well he would pursue to the very bitter end. He is well known as a man who has this ability to bluff and to stand over. He is well known as a man who taught law at the university and many of his students have given him away. He is well known as having lost his status in Tasmania when they kicked him upstairs to the Senate to get rid of him out of the State Parliament. He is well known as  a  man who is now grandstanding to try to exploit the King Island misfortune so that he can get a few votes for preselection. Although he is old, haggard, worn out and ready for the scrapheap, he is still holding on tenuously. I conclude by saying that if  Senator Wright  had not introduced the other night this matter  of  dishonour and honour against a very honourable man in part of his vendetta in association with his legal friend - both nostalgic and piqued - and had it not been for the fact that they misused their time as Ministers of Her Majesty's Government and are now rightly  in  the Opposition, I would not have raised this matter. I have no regrets for having raised  it. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I address my question to the Acting Leader of the Government in the Senate who is the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Is the Minister aware that  His  Holiness Pope Paul has met a delegation of the Vietcong Provisional Revolutionary Government headed by Nguyen van Hieu,  Minister of State and head of the Vietcong team at the Paris  talks?  Is he also aware that the meeting of Pope Paul with the representative of the Vietcong follows a similar audience with leaders of the North Vietnam Government last month? Does  not this lead from the Vatican indicate that the conference table is the proper place at which to ease the tensions of war and to try to bring the world to sanity? 
One would have thought that the setting up of this Committee was a genuine effort to inquire into and report on the problems related to King Island and the provision of an adequate and reliable shipping service to and from the island. Opposition senators have tried to create the impression that they have the interests of King Island at heart, but it does appear that this has developed into a test of strength in the numbers game and that the objective of the Committee is of secondary importance. The proposition before the chamber is: 
. the appointment of members to serve on the Select Committee on Shipping Services to King Island, Stanley and Melbourne . . . 
That the Committee consist of . . . 
Three to be nominated by the Leader of the Government in the Senate; 
Two to be nominated by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate; and 
One to be nominated by any minority group or groups or Independent or Independents. 
This composition would allow the Committee to get off the ground and do the job which it is supposed to do. It seems that the honourable senator who proposed the setting up of a committee with an Opposition majority did so to bring about a critical situation between the 2 sides of the Senate. In my view this does a very grave disservice to the concept of the committee system. The chairmanship of a committee is important in relation to guidance or leadership and the way in which the committee goes. Perhaps there is some advantage to the  chairman  in that he is the official spokesman of the committee. Perhaps any publicity which comes from the committee's activities is directed more towards the  chairman  than to other members of the committee. But be that as it may, in my view the whole idea of setting up a committee to investigate this very difficult problem on King Island is being degraded by the intransigence of honourable senators opposite who insist that the business be taken out of the hands of the Government by proposing a committee on which Government senators are in a minority. 
In doing that honourable senators opposite are taking away the value of such an investigation by a Senate committee. Over the last few weeks the principle involved in taking the business of the Senate out of the hands of the Government has been very well canvassed. The people on King Island have become the meat in the sandwich, or a political football. Insult is being added to injury when, instead of their plight being in the forefront of the minds of honourable senators, they are being used as a political opportunity to score points and publicity. If honourable senators on the Government side are appointed as members of this Committee I believe that it will be their duty to inform the people on King Island, and those who will be associated with giving evidence and assisting in compiling the necessary material for the Committee to report to the Senate, of this debate. I believe that these people will feel that the Committee has been reduced in status by the debate on the composition of the Committee. 
After hearing the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers)  state that he will not support the motion which has been moved by  Senator Willesee  and that we cannot expect any alteration in the stand of the Opposition, I feel that at this late stage there should be a reconsideration of that stand in order to give some credence and standing to the Committee when it goes out to do a job for the Senate. At the present time it would be going out under a cloud. The details of the terms of reference of the Committee ostensibly provide for an examination of many of the irritations and disadvantages in the long unhappy story of transport to and from King Island. I am quite familiar with the problem, having first travelled to King Island in 1923. I travelled on a State Government ship, the 'Tambar'. This ship, which was run by the State Government, had a sister ship called the 'Colloboi'. The 'Tambar' ran backwards and forwards to King Island and the 'Colloboi' to Flinders Island. At that time they provided a very good service. But King Island is in the geographical area of the Roaring Forties. The trade winds blow in and make it difficult- 
 I am trying to outline the importance of the problem on King Island. If the honourable senator goes to King Island they will draft him into the bull pen. Very difficult climatic conditions exist down there and there is difficulty with the port facilities at Currie. I recall that when I went there on this ship in 1923 we had to stand off for quite a considerable period. We could not get into the port on the west coast of the Island so we had to come around to an alternative port at what was called the Fraser River. There are problems with port facilities yet the development of war service land settlement and mining interests have continued over the years despite those problems. Nothing specific has ever been done since a Liberal Government sold the State Shipping Service in Tasmania and deprived the island of a secure and regular service. It is true that the State shipping line was not a very profitable line but nevertheless King Islanders are Australians with equal rights. They are without the facilities which other parts of the Commonwealth have by way of roads, railways and the like. Shipping is their only substantial means of transport. Since the State shipping service last ran to King Island in the 1920s there has been an uncertain and irregular service. 
I believe that it is the responsibility of the State and the Commonwealth in combination to provide the island with a regular shipping service. These are correct and proper objectives for a committee to investigate. Without doubt the future of King Island depends on some solution being found to this problem. The States, particularly the mendicant States, and local authorities are fully committed in relation to rate finance so no one else can find the necessary financial facilities to set up a shipping service. The Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  has indicated that the Government is prepared to provide a service. Perhaps this Committee will be able to find out whether it is the best service or a compromise. I make this appeal to honourable senators opposite who have taken this intransigent stand: If they do not follow the traditions of the Senate in giving the chairmanship of the Committee and equal membership on it to the Government then they are doing a grave disservice to the Committee and to the objectives for which it is supposedly set up. 
In the fina) analysis when the history of the Senate is being written the activities of a temporary majority on the Opposition benches will be recorded as occurring during a very negative period for the institution of the Senate. The honourable senators who are participating in the setting up of this Committee and who are breaking the accepted traditions of the Senate will be judged, I believe, in the records of the Parliament and by history as having done a disservice to the Senate. So I am hoping that  Senator Wright  and those honourable senators he intends to have on the Committee will allow their better judgment to prevail and that during the luncheon suspension of the sitting they will decide that the motion put forward by  Senator Willesee  is far better than the one they have proposed and that the best interests of the people of King Island and Tasmania generally will be served if this motion, notice of which was given by the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  Senator Murphy,  is; adopted. 

 Senator BISHOP (South Australia- Minister for Reptriation and Minister Assisting the 
Minister for Defence) (12.47) - 1 am surprised, after all the debates we have had and the tensions created in the Senate, that the Opposition has not agreed to the proposition put forward by the Government. I think  Senator Willesee  has already established very well the case that it has been a tradition, a practice of the Senate, to do what is proposed in our motion. We have to have a darned good reason to change the practices which have obtained over the years. The proposition advanced by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Withers)  in fact is a political ploy which arises from the antagonism which the Opposition has had towards the Government since it came to power. It is not a proposition which would have been advanced during the years in which the present Opposition was in Government during the time that I have been here, because it has been the custom over many years to uphold what are stated to be the traditions and the prestige of the Senate by expanding our committee system, as we have done over the years, to give the impression that the Senate committee system is working fairly and is seen to be working fairly. 
It seems to me that what is proposed by  Senator Wright,  which is now an amendment to  Senator Willesee's  proposition, as to the consist of the Committee, will impede the inquiry. Obviously there is a case for an inquiry into the matter. If the answers supplied by the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Charles Jones),  and  Senator Cavanagh  who represents the Minister in this place, have not been satisfactory, of course the Senate has an obligation and perhaps a responsibility to make some further inquiries, if it so chooses, into island shipping services. But in doing so surely we ought to have regard for what has been the Senate practice over the years. I suggest what is happening here is simply a continuing frustration by the Opposition of the Government's work. We have a mandate from the people- 

 - Mr President-- 

I can hear the mumbling of an old stager on the other side who does not want to have this matter put straight. I intend to put on record the story of the committees in this Senate. According to 'Aus tralian Senate Practice' by Odgers the Canberra Times' of 31st March 1971 stated: 
Yesterday was the day opponents of the burgeoning Senate committee system had long feared and warned against, the day when a committee began to look as important as a Linked States Senate committee, and as powerful . . . And it (the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange) is doing a job which no one has ever tried before, which even a Royal Commission could not match in terms of speed, power, economy, and the use of expertise, yet which can only be regarded as highly desirable in the public interest. 

 Mr Odgers also quoted the 'Sydney Morning Herald' of 3rd November 1970 which stated: 
The Senate is now undergoing the most fundamental and dramatic changes witnessed in the Commonwealth Parliament since the States decided to federate 70 years ago. The introduction of a wideranging committee system will make the red-carpeted Upper House potentially the most powerful parliamentary chamber in Australia. 
I am submitting that what the temporary Opposition is doing tonight is turning the clock back and negating the great potential that the Senate had in introducing the committee system which was arranged in the normal way with the Government of the day supplying the  Chairman,  the Government of the day supplying the funds, the Government of the day interested in the activities of the committees, and the people of Australia interested that the Senate had some useful purpose in this country. For cheap, opportunistic political purposes this whole trend and the great hope that the people had for the Senate are being altered and prostituted by means of the motion on which we are about to vote. At this late stage I ask the Opposition to reconsider what it is doing. There is no political kudos in trying to justify what has been going on amongst this murdering lunatic fringe of Croats in Australia. They are foreign to Australia. 
I am talking about the people of the Croatian Revolutionary Brotherhood who are known to have gone to take part in the Bosnian incursion, as it has been called. They went there to wage a quiet war and they were arrested. This is what this whole thing is about. I put to the Opposition senators that they arc in more deeply than they understand. The lid has been lifted off this stupidity of members of exiled governments coming to Australia and obtaining refuge under a Liberal-Country Party Government. It is no longer on. The Opposition is trying to maintain this stupidity and it is prostituting the Senate committee system in the process.  1  ask Opposition senators to consider carefully the way in which they vote on this motion because if committees are to be used in this way by the Opposition the demise of the committee system in the Senate is being prepared. This is what the Opposition is doing. As indicated by the quotations I read earlier a great crescendo was built up. The Clerks of the Senate, the custodians of the Senate, have worked carefully to build the Senate into a worthy place so that it could take its place as an effective force in the Parliament of this country. Tonight we are seeing a nail being driven into the coffin of the committee system and the worthiness of the Senate. I ask Opposition senators to think very seriously about that. 
My question is directed to the Acting Leader of the Government in the Senate in his capacity as Minister representing the Minister for Services and Property. In view of the ludicrous situation that has been exposed again by the results of the Victorian State elections, where the Victorian Liberal Government had 46 members elected to the State Parliament by 42 per cent of the vote, whereas 42 per cent of voters supporting the Australian Labor Party enabled that Party to obtain only 18 or 19 seats, will the Minister consider having a White Paper issued by the Commonwealth Electoral Office to point out the grave inequity of the Victorian Electoral distribution and so inform the people of Victoria and the rest of Australia of facts that the Australian Press has suppressed of a cynical, opportunistic, perversion of democratic electoral justice? 
The legislation before the Senate at the present time seeks to amend the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act. In essence, the Bill will enable the Government of Australia to ratify agreements that have been signed already with our near and friendly neighbour Indonesia. It is one of those very important diplomatic steps that have to be taken in view of not only the dramatic improvement in the technique of drilling off-shore in waters which previously were unavailable to man but also the settling once and for all of an area which could have led to tension between 2 neighbouring countries. The ratification of these agreements means that the respective countries - Australia and Indonesia-can go ahead with certainty and allocate areas for exploration and exploitation. Now that these agreements have been ratified, any possibility of disputes arising has been eradicated. There is a series of agreements. The first was signed on 18 May 1971; it established certain seabed boundaries. Another was signed at Djakarta on 9 October 1972; it established the boundaries in the area of the Timor and Arafura Seas. The final agreement was signed on 12 February this year; it concerned certain boundaries between Papua New Guinea and Indonesia. 
After the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  made his second reading speech, maps were made available to honourable senators which show that the boundary extends from the area north of Papua New Guinea through the Arafura and Timor Seas to a point at which the boundary is incomplete. That point is in the area near Portuguese Timor. I understand that some delicate negotiations are taking place at present, but I feel that the spirit of co-operation that has been shown by the present Australian Government with our neighbours in the underdeveloped or newly developing countries will be maintained when negotiations take place with the Portuguese in Portuguese Timor. It is expected that some conclusions could be reached in this area later this year. 
This is a ratification of agreements. It can only be to our advantage to have this matter settled amicably. We have the very good fortune to possess a defined area that is potentially rich. It has been stated that this area could become the richest hydrocarbon empire in the world. If contains gas and oil in quantities that could match even the fabulous riches of the Middle East. The future of Australia, at a time when a fuel crisis is developing in the United States of America and when the traditional source of supply of hydrocarbons is the subject of very delicate arrangements, with certain traditional practices being changed and the prices being under barter, is bright. We are extremely fortunate that at this time we are emerging into an era of selfsufficiency or near self-sufficiency in the supply of hydrocarbons. All Australia - our generation and those to follow - will benefit from this very good fortune. 
It is my belief that with proper husbandry, proper conservation and proper utilisation we not only can supply all our own needs, with the exception of the very heavy products that come in lower gravity oils from other parts of the world, but also can expect to become a judicious exporter of some of the products of this magnificent new discovery in the north west of Australia. I. also see the possibility of settlement in the interior of Australia in areas that can benefit from the reticulation of these' great resources throughout Australia. That Will place Australia in the position where, with the riches that can come from these dis- coven es of oil arid gas, the standard of living can be lifted and we can widen the expectation of expanding welfare in the community. I certainly believe that Australia is  heading towards becoming a great and independent nation in the Pacific area and, in the geographical sense, the Asian area of the world, whereas previously we were dependent upon overseas sources of supply for our fuel. I can understand the concern of  Senator, Lawrie  about the boundary lines between  Queensland and Papua New Guinea, but I hope that the same goodwill, the same tolerance and the same width of vision that have been shown in this piece of legislation will be extended into that area and that everyone will benefit and no one will lose by any future arrangements that are made concerning the boundaries of our territorial rights and the sea bed generally. I wish to support this measure strongly and to  congratulate the Government on bringing it to' the Parliament for ratification so quickly after the sighing of the agreement. I feel certain that we will all benefit from it. 
The introduction of the Pipeline Authority Bill 1973 can be assessed as one of the most important milestones in the history of transport in Australia. I tie up this pipeline with transport because it is just as essential to have a pipeline transporting liquid hydrocarbons as it is to have rail, road and air transport. This Bill closes the gap which exists in this country for a properly organised and co-ordinated transport system. One can only be nauseated by the bilious making bilge which has been pushed out by  Senator Webster.  He was a member of the Senate Select Committee on Off-shore Petroleum Resources which examined this problem. I shall quote from the majority report - of which he was a member - which, at page 290, paragraph 8.73, states: 
The Committee believes that some form of federal control of a resource as important to Australia as petroleum, both economically and for defence purposes, is desirable. 

 Senator Webster has recommended: 
The evidence would suggest that regulatory and advisory responsibilities of an authority .in the field of interstate trade could include: (1.) To authorise the construction, ownership, operation and location of interstate oil and gas pipelines; (2.) To make orders with respect to all matters relating to traffic, tariffs and prices; and (3.) To study, review and from time to time report to the Parliament on such policies and measures as it considers necessary or advisable in the public interest for the control of transportation of oil and gas. 
The whole proposition which  Senator Webster  put before the Senate has painted a false picture. 
I quoted from page 290, paragraph 8.73. If we had copies of speeches which have been made in the past by parties and honourable senators from the Opposition side on measures similar to this measure we would find a common strain running through them all. When we introduced the - Bill to establish the Snowy Mountains - Authority it was suggested that the creeping hand of socialism was going to take over the country.' We have heard the same sort of line taken about the setting up of instrumentalities such as Qantas Airways Ltd, the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation Pty Ltd, Commonwealth Railways, and the Australian National Line. I could name hosts of these instrumentalities which have the respect of people throughout this nation. They are part of the fabric of our economy. Honourable senators who stand up in this place and condemn those authorities and the people working for them are doing themselves a disservice and also doing a grave injustice to those very loyal people associated with these Commonwealth instrumentalities. 
If honourable senators would have a look at what we are really doing they would see that we are trying to overcome the same difficulties which reflect the hidebound mentality of people who were responsible for the railway gauges suddenly changing from 3 ft 6 in to 4 ft  Si  in and to 5 ft 3 in at State boundaries. It took 70 years and longer for the Australian people to obtain some sort of uniformity in railway gauges. It took an enormous cost to overcome this parochial attitude which people have where things are confined to the one State. We are a nation, a federation. The resources of the country are for our people and our children in the future. So the responsibility is ours to see that the best use is made of our resources.  Sir John  McEwen, the erstwhile leader of the Australian Country Party to which  Senator Webster  belongs, drew attention to the trend in Australia of selling out part of the farm. What we are trying to do is not only stop the selling of the farms but also to hold and cultivate them properly. By that I mean that the farms could be farming natural resources of all descriptions such as gas, oil, minerals or any other resources with which our country seems to be so richly endowed. 1 put it to the Senate that we are not trying to introduce something which is novel in the activities of the oil industry. The United States, Canada, Italy, or any country with any sort of economy of scale is looking to the future. They have co-ordinated, welldirected and, in many cases, governmentowned and controlled pipeline systems. They are all running efficiently. 
We would be recreant to our trust if we did not nip in the bud this trend by which every little entrepreneur wants to get in on some little bargain to build a one gauge pipeline to Gidgealpa. The Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd wanted to build little pipelines around Victoria. It had great visions of sending a pipeline into New South Wales. Of course all of us know (he story about that. The international monopolies who share our great Bass Strait resources had their fingers in the pie. They wanted to extort an unduly high price from the people of Sydney and New South Wales. The New South Wales Gas Corporation decided that this was not on, and it was able to make alternative arrangements and get its gas supplies from Gidgealpa. But revenge came in then. Rather than use Australian steel produced by Australian workmen in an Australian owned factory the international monopolies got their revenge on the Australian people by placing the pipeline order in Japan and we are saddled with this. This is the mentality of the people who criticise us today for trying to co-ordinate at ground level this tremendous industry which is in its infancy in Australia. 
There was no revenge about that. It was a matter of supply and demand. I will admit that. The matter to which 1 was referring was not a matter of supply and demand. Our factories were not given the opportunity to tool-up so that they could supply this pipeline. There was an element of revenge in it. The international monopolies said: 'Right. You tried to put it over us with regard to the supply of gas from the Bass Strait field. Now we will get our revenge on you by not giving you the order for the pipeline.' We are saddled with that. We will see that that type of thing does not happen in future. We will also see that our natural resources - our iron ore deposits, our steel making processes and the long line that goes from the raw metal to the completed pipeline - will be, as far as possible, utilised by Australians for Australia. This is the theme of the Bill. 
The Bill is an exciting one, when one looks at it. The concept of a grid spreading throughout Australia is an exciting one. The object is to maximise Australia's ownership and control of the use and development of Australia's resources. The people were given this vision splendid last year when we appealed to them to elect us. On 2 December they gave us, in no uncertain terms, a mandate to govern and to go ahead with an 'Advance Australia for Australians' policy, lt has been said that not only are matters of defence, decentralisation, population growth and national development involved but also matters of inter-connected supplies are involved. In the short history of the oil industry in Australia there have been 2 fields. One was at Moonie in Queensland. This reached its peak. There has been a diminution in supply. Resources from other areas will have to be used to compensate for the loss from that area. Those sources are presently being developed. The other field was an off-shore field which was developed by West Australian Petroleum Pty Ltd. It reached a peak. The production per day has fallen there now. With a pipeline grid, when one area starts to decline, the areas which are being supplied by that source can be reinforced by supplies from other areas. We have a tremendous responsibility to plan ahead so that there will be a constant and continuing supply of this very important fuel and energy to all parts of the country, which will enable not only population growth but also national development and decentralisation to continue. 
Earlier in the course of my remarks I mentioned the setting up of the Snowy Mountains Authority and all the carping criticism which we had to withstand at that time. Representatives of the same parties as the parties to which honourable senators opposite belong were so parsimonious in their outlook and attitude that they went to the extent of putting a black ban on attendance at the opening of the Snowy Mountains scheme. I remember it very well. 
 Yes, he was. One  senator the late General George Rankin, a man of great courage and integrity, did not take any notice of this carping attitude of his colleagues. He attended. He was the only one who did. That indicates the consistency of their attitude. They are knockers. They have this idea that they can frighten people by referring to socialism, and they speak as if we did not have to make use of our resources in a national way. The private entrepreneur has one purpose for being in business, that is, to exploit anything at all for profit. The responsibility of a government is to see that resources are developed for the well being and the betterment of the people to whom it is responsible and who are constituent members of society. There is a big difference between the 2 outlooks. If private enterprise finds something more profitable in which to invest its money, it will leave. Often it is the responsibility of a government to step in and clean up what is left behind. 
I do not think Opposition members convince anyone when they try to frighten people by talking about socialism in respect of these progressive, well organised and well designed instrumentalities which have the cream of the brains of the country behind them. For 10 or 12 years or more I was a member of the Public Works Committee. I had close contact with many of the top people in the Public Service. I found that they left for dead most of these little job jockeys as far as width of outlook and level of intellect were concerned. Some of the great people 'in the Public Service of Australia administer public instrumentalities. I believe that a pipeline grid will equal or excel the mangificent performance of the Snowy Mountains Authority and the great, lasting and continuing benefit that that scheme has brought to us. People who visit the Snowy Mountains scheme stare in wonderment. They wonder who could have been the architect of such a great concept. Every day the waters which were rushing wasted into the sea are being conserved, put through generators to make electricity which is being fed into grids. The pipeline grid concept . is the same. In addition the hitherto parched inland of Australia is getting the benefit of that large volume of water. 
The grid system will link by a continental pipeline the city of Sydney with Gidgealpa in the Cooper Basin of South Australia. An extension will go through Wagga to AlburyWodonga. There will be later extensions to Melbourne. How dramatic a concept this is. From Gidgealpa the pipeline will be linked to the Palm Valley field in the Amadeus Basin of the Northern Territory. That will bring in Alice Springs and areas west of there. The construction of the pipeline will result in the building of roads, the creation of employment opportunities and the arousing of more interest in the areas concerned. The pipeline will go into an area which up to now has been unprofitable. There is no saying what will develop from spur lines in that area. There are known mineral resources in the central areas of Australia, but because of lack of power and water they have not been exploited. But the availability of energy - the great friend of man - could be the trigger for this development. 
Then the line will continue to the Dampier area on the north-west coast of Australia where the vast resources of the north-west shelf will be available. These resources have been discussed not only during the previous debate but also during this debate. I think that the story is only seeping through now. The - Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  is a. capable and able Minister, and he is ensuring that people who have the privilege and the good fortune to have leases in these areas get on with the job instead of playing ducks and drakes and working out who they can farm in and farm out and how they can get round the provisions of the present Act regarding relinquishments. When we are dealing with these people we are dealing with the big leaguers. We are just novices, babes in the wood in the oil industry. 
That is right, we are dealing with the buccaneers. 
 I think that  Senator Webster  has a love-hate thing with  Mrs Jones  and Marrickville Margarine. I know people who prefer margarine to butter. Doctors ask some people to eat margarine instead of butter. I think that  Senator Webster  mixes up poly-unsaturated and  Mrs Jones  when he refers to margarine. There is room for the manufacture of margarine in Australia. There will be more room than anyone realises for the expansion of the beef cattle industry and the dairying industry because the shackles have been lifted  off  Australia now. We will find growing markets and a greater demand for our products.  Senator Webster  has been able to generate pessimism in this regard, but we have a new look now. Australia is on the march again; it is on the way. There is relative prosperity in most areas. We will try to alter the position of people like apple growers and other orchardists in Tasmania who have had some slugs on their backs - agents who have been misguiding them for so long. The wool grower is quite prosperous today. I do not think that the wheat grower knows where to start to tackle the problem posed by the demand that he will have for his wheat from the present markets and the future markets. So on all the way through. Anyway, I will return to the subject matter of the Bill. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT  (Senator  Prowse) -  1 have been listening to them. I realise that he was diverted from the Bill by an irrelevant interjection. 

 - Mr Deputy President, you were so impressed with what I was saying that you forgot  to  pull me up. You knew that the words of wisdom were correct. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT -  I was quite aware of it,  Senator, but  I allowed for the fact that  an  irrelevant, interjection had interrupted your comments  on  the Bill. 
Before I was rudely diverted from what I was saying, I was refer ring to the great vision that is embodied in this legislation. Planned supplies of natural gas will be made available to Sydney. There have been some cries from the wilderness that these supplies will be, I think, 5 months late. But possibly they are already 5 years late because of the ramifications of people who have been playing round with how much they will get per therm and whether they will get the gas from Victoria or Gidgealpa. Then there is the matter of the pipeline link between Palm Valley in the centre of Australia and the Kalgoorlie mineral province and Perth. What a wonderful concept it is to think that we can take resources from the centre of Australia and link them up with the great mineral resources of Western Australia. 
The Western Australian Government has agreed to .this concept. It knows the advantages in the scheme. A private entrepreneur would have to be prodded along to think of a scheme as great as this one within the next 50 years. It would be left to those who own nearly all the shares in the companies that are operating off-shore and in the oil industry. There has been a steady erosion of Australian ownership in these areas. That was revealed by the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange. One sees the manipulation of our stock exchanges and all the other things that are going on. A great opening has been made for the, international monopolies and investors to come into these resources where the going is good. This pipeline could be used for defence purposes. This legislation is the key to properly husbanding our resources. The Minister, in his second-reading speech, said: 
The total concept will provide a completely interconnected grid system, ensuring back-up supplies in case of interruption by, natural calamities or exhaustion of supply from an individual source. 
He also said that the Government will enter into a contract with the Australian Gas Light Co. and that in relation to the East Australian Pipeline Corporation Ltd it will observe all the contractual commitments, including the retention of the project managers already retained by the company. So those companies have nothing about which to complain. 
The final point 1 make ls that the hotchpotch amendments that have been foreshadowed are to be moved only for the purpose of delaying this measure. Honourable senators said that no one on the Government side wanted to speak on the Bill. The Minister in his second-reading speech gave honourable senators the case. We do not want tediously to reiterate the case that is so clear cut. But we can see that honourable senators opposite want to delay this measure. It will fit quite easily on to the list of measures that they will fail to pass in this session. The simple purpose of this measure is to set up an authority with adequate powers to construct and operate a major public utility having the responsibility of making one of our greatest natural resources available to the Australian people. These resources will not be exported willynilly to wherever an overseas entrepreneur wishes to take his pound of flesh. This Bill is designed to make the resources available to the Austraiian people. 1 support the measure. As I said when 1 commenced my speech, it is an historic day for Australia that this concept of a pipeline grid is to get off the ground, lt is to be installed as quickly as is humanly possible, taking into account the background of this matter and the materials that will be required. It will cause greater demands in every field of employment and greater demands for materials throughout the whole complex of our economy. Not only will it bring foreseeable benefits to our country but also those who come after us will be thankful to this Government and to this Senate for passing a measure such as this which will avoid so many of the inadequacies of the private enterprise system in the past which I have mentioned. 1 referred to the various railway gauges and the disorganised intrastate and interstate arguments that have held the country back. I am sure that the people who understand the significance of this measure will give it their wholehearted support. 
I understand that certain machinery requirements have to be observed at present in order that the Special Minister of State  (Senator Willesee)  might present a statement. For that reason I suggest that progress be reported. 
Progress reported. 
Having observed the forms of the Committee and having secured the adjournment of the debate for the purpose of the introduction of a ministerial statement, I how indicate that I would like the Committee proceedings to continue. 

 Senator WRIGHT (Tasmania (8.57)- I rise to refer to the remarks that fell from  Senator Cavanagh,  the Minister for Works; last night.  His  remarks were the most garbled gobbledegook we have ever heard in the Senate, betraying a complete lack of understanding of the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act, and at one stage actively advancing the inference that the Public Works Committee Act might apply to pipeline works undertaken in accordance with this Bill. He later acknowledged that the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act did not apply,, as is the fact. Because this , is a statutory authority, they are regarded, by deliberate advice. given to the Department on record as not being works of the Commonwealth, and therefore excluded from the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act. 1 only hope that the Minister who expressed the view that he would like to see works of statutory Commonwealth instrumentalities subject to provisions such as the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act will fortify his view, with his support when the first opportunity arises. I do not wish to intervene in the debate further than to reply to remarks that particularly pertain to the portfolio of the Minister for Works of which I had some experience. I have lamented the lack of understanding that was indicated by the speech of the present Minister for Works. 
Can ' the AttorneyGeneral inform the Senate of the progress made to this time in the preparation of proposed amendments to strengthen trade practice laws in this country? 
Through you,  Mr President,  I would like to ask a question of the  Chairman  of the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange. 
Through you,  Mr President,  I would like to ask a question of the  Chairman  of the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange. Can the honourable senator inform the Senate when the report of the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange - it is now 3 years since it commenced hearings - will be tabled in the Senate? Is the report likely to be tabled this session? Is the  Chairman  concerned that the Committee's report is becoming known as the Kathleen Mavourneen report - it may be for years, it may be for ever? 
I direct my question to the Special Minister of State. Has his attention been drawn to the plight of political prisoners in Saigon and South Vietnam? In view of the funds being allocated by Australia towards civilian rehabilitation in South Vietnam, will the Minister suggest as a condition applying to the continuation of the allocation of these funds that access be given to and inspection be made of the shocking, inhuman conditions of political prisoners in Saigon who are confined to cages like animals? Will the Minister make inquiries into the circumstances surrounding the imprisonment of young Catholic workers in Saigon? 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for Services and Property consult with  Senator Wright, Senator Greenwood, Senator Webster  and  Senator Kane  with a view to setting up secretarial facilities on Kangaroo Island which would seem to be a most suitable place for the holding of kangaroo courts? 
The Minister for the Media will recall that before the last Federal election the Prime Minister indicated that he would initiate an investigation into the viability and the practicability of the introduction of frequency modulation broadcasts. I would ask the Minister whether the Broadcasting Control Board or any other authority has carried out this investigation? What is the present position with regard to frequency modulation? 

 Senator DOUGLAS McCLELLANDTrue it is that during the course of the last Federal election campaign the Prime Minister said, amongst other things, that when a Labor Government was elected to office it would adhere to the timetable for the introduction of colour television as laid down by the previous Government and that it would endeavour to expedite the introduction of frequency modulation radio broadcasts in Australia. The Government certainly intends to see that frequency modulation radio is introduced and it would like to see it introduced as quickly as possible because I am sure that most honourable senators would be aware that FM radio has distinct advantages over radio as we know it today which is based on the amplitude modulation system. According to information supplied to me by the technical officers of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board - they are officers for whom I have the greatest respect and admiration - at present there appears to be a number of technical difficulties in the way of an immediate introduction ofFM radio largely caused by the decision of the previous Government to allocate that section of the very high frequency band normally used for FM broadcasts to 3 television channels. That decision which was made some 10 years or so ago is one which makes the future of FM radio rather uncertain. 
My question without notice is directed to the Special Minister of State. Has the Minister been informed of the phenomenon that happened yesterday in elections held in Ireland when  Mr Erskine  Childers, an English Protestant, was elected  President  of Ireland? Will the Special Minister of State send a message of congratulations to the new Irish  President  wishing him success in the new ecumenical era which follows the 3 previous eras - the pagan era, the Christian era and the De Valera? 
The Opposition has stressed one aspect of the Bill before the Senate. It has pointed out that the use by Trans-Australia Airlines of superannuation funds to finance its domestic operations is a disadvantage to Ansett Transport Industries Ltd. This seems to be the main theme of the Opposition's case in this matter. 
This is the employer contribution. I must stress that. It is purely an internal financial matter. This is an indication of what the members of the Opposition have been trying to impose. There should have been equal and fair competition in the airline industry; but, in fact, a long series of disadvantages have been imposed on one of the airlines. 
It might be as well for us to run through the history of the Airlines agreement which came into existence in 1952. At that time, the private enterprise airline, Australian National Airways Pty Ltd, had been operating at a loss for some years and had proposed to the then Government the amalgamation of TransAustralia Airlines and ANA. The 1952 agreement had as one of its objectives the continued existence of both ANA and TAA as operators of airline services, as was stated by the Minister of  the  day in his second reading speech when he said: 
  The main principle of our policy in civil aviation is to ensure that civil air services are provided domestically under conditions of fair and active competition. 
The 1952 Airlines Agreement, which was to operate for 15 years, bestowed the following benefits on the private airline: Airmail was to be shared equally between the airlines, whereas previously it had been carried solely by TAA; government travel and air freight was to be freely available to both airlines, rather than carried exclusively by TAA, the government's own airline-- 
There is nothing wrong with the Government's airline doing the government's business. The other benefits were: ANA was to receive government guarantees for loans covering aircraft purchases; aircraft becoming available from Commonwealth sources were to be equally available to each airline; and air route charges, which had not been paid by ANA were to be reduced by two-thirds for the previous 5 years and levied at half the existing rate in the future. 
Despite the assistance given by the 1952 Agreement, ANA was unable to sustain profitable operations, primarily due to a bad decision to operate DC6 aircraft against TAA's Viscount fleet. In 1957, Ansett Transport Industries Ltd purchased ANA and the 1957 Airlines Agreement had as its prime objective the maintaining of 2 airlines operators of trunk route airline services, each capable of effective competition with the other. The evenly balanced competitive situation was upset with the takeover of ANA by Ansett Transport Industries Ltd. Not only was the combined airline larger than TAA but ATI had .widespread interests in hotels and resorts and bus touring services, as well as road freight and manufacturing companies. A rapid expansion of both airline and nonairline activities by the private airline took place over the next few years. Between 1959 and 1963, Ansett acquired Butler Airways in New South Wales, Queensland Airlines, Guinea Airways in South Australia, Mandated Airlines in Papua New Guinea and a controlling interest in Macrobertson Miller Airlines in Western Australia. Television was added as a new activity in 1963, with the acquisition of a television licence in Melbourne, followed some time later by a second television licence in Brisbane. 
After only 9 years operation of the 1952 Agreement - while it still had 6 years to run and just prior to the Federal elections - under pressure from the Ansett organisation the Agreement was extended for a further 10 years. Again, just prior to the Federal elections in 1972 and While the Agreement again still had 5 years to run and when the Government's chances looked even gloomier than in 1961, the Agreement was extended for an indefinite period, not being less than 5 years - in other words, until 1982, at least. Even to obtain termination at that date notice of termination must be given 5 years before the current expiry date on the motion of both Houses of Parliament. In effect, there is no expiry date; it is open-ended. Even by 1982 the 2 airline policy will have been in existence for 30 years. 
When Ansett took over ANA, it was faced with the problem of re-equipping its airline fleet. TAA asked the Government for approval to re-equip with Caravelle jet aircraft, but Ansett objected on the grounds that it was not ready to move into pure jet aircraft and preferred to gain experience with turbo-prop aircraft. The Government then disapproved TAA's request and allowed both airlines to re-equip with Electra turbo-prop aircraft, but Ansett was allocated two of these aircraft some 4 months ahead of TAA. This enabled the private airline to attract additional revenue of approximately $lm at the expense of 
TAA. In addition, Ansett was given approval in 1959 for a third Electra, which was delivered in February 1960. 
In 1959 the Government applied pressure designed to induce TAA to assist in the solution to the problem caused by the fact that the Ansett-ANA DC6B aircraft were much less attractive to the public than TAA's Viscounts. An essential element of any such solution acceptable to Ansett was that it should involve imposing a disability on TAA. As a result, the well remembered cross-charter arrangement under which TAA received 2 DC6Bs in exchange for 3 Viscounts emerged as an agreement in March 1960. This agreement, which was known far and wide as the double-cross-charter' was originally for 3 years and was extended later to 6 years. Following implementation of this cross-charter deal, TAA finally was given approval to purchase a third Electra so that it, too, would have 3 of these aircraft. To achieve an intoservice date for its third Electra comparable to that of Ansett, which had been given approval the previous year, it was necessary for TAA to charter an aircraft from Qantas Airways Ltd for a time. Since 1964, both airlines have acquired identical front-line equipment, introduced into service at the same time. 
Since 1957, ATI has been granted route extensions, whereby it has been allowed to expand onto major routes which were previously monopoly operations for TAA. The most significant gain was the acquisition of licences covering 3 routes to Darwin from Brisbane, Sydney and Adelaide, involving at &lt;that time a revenue transfer of about $1.2m from TAA to ATI. The other major route award was from 'Port Moresby to Bougainville in Papua New Guinea, where TAA was carrying a large volume of traffic associated with the development of copper mining operations on its monopoly air routes. 
When the 2 airline policy was first introduced, the private and government airlines were equal in size, carrying equal traffic and earning equal revenue. In 1957, when Ansett took over ANA, the 2 airlines were not evenly balanced and at that time the Ansett revenue was 46 per cent higher than TAA's. This was due largely to the non-airline activities of the merged group. With the takeover of smaller airlines, the expansion on to main routes operated by TAA and the development of its non-airline enterprises, Ansett's revenue last year was 73 per cent higher than TAA's. So, the imbalance has continued to move in Ansett's favour and against TAA. 
As at 1972, ATI's airline operations were some 20 per cent larger than TAA's, returning revenue of some $30m more than TAA's airline revenue. Ansett's non-airline activities - consisting of road passenger and freight operations, hotels and tourists resorts, television, manufacturing and .trading companies - earned revenue of $5 8m. In total last year ATI, because of its large monopoly airline network and its freedom to expand its nonairline activities, earned revenues greater than those of TAA by some $88m. This is the equal opportunity for the airlines. With this demonstrated and growing imbalance TAA notified the Minister that it was not prepared to sign the agreement extending the 2-airline policy beyond 1977, unless some assurance was given that the imbalance would be corrected or at least permit TAA to start closing the gap. Trans-Australia Airlines pointed out that one of the objectives of the 1957 agreement was to secure a position in which there were 2 operators of trunk route airline services, each capable of effective competition with the other and that effective competition was not possible because of the smaller size and restricted powers of TAA. The previous Government therefore took a decision to extend TAA's operations on to the PerthDarwin route which had been and still is a monopoly route for Ansett and also to allow TAA to move into new areas of operations to assist its airline, such as hotels and road transport. These steps are necessary if an evenhanded 2-airline policy is to continue. 
There is no way of summing up the position better than by quoting the words of  Sir Reginald  Ansett himself in his report to shareholders in his 1961-62 report. He said: 
Last year's Directors' report referred to the 1961 Civil Aviation Agreement Act which extended the existing 2 airline system until 1977. The year has shown how little understood by the public is the significance of this legislation to the civil aviation industry and to this Company in particular. It gives the Company an Australia-wide aviation franchise of about 50 per cent of the industry revenue, which totals approximately $36m per annum. This franchise is for another 15 years and its value cannot be calculated 
These are the words of the Managing Director himself. He added: 
Nowhere else In the world is there such an arrangement which ensures civil aviation stability for such a period. Operating within this situation, and with efficient management controlling costs, reasonable .profits are assured for this same period. 
During the 20 years or more that the 2- airline policy has been in existence, enormous assistance has been given to the private airline in the interests of maintaining a 2-airline policy. In addition to the 2 premature renewals of this agreement just prior to Federal elections and major help from the Government in the cross charter and Caravelle-Electra decisions, 'the main areas of assistance have been as follows: 
Sharing of air mail and Government business. There was, naturally, no corresponding improvement in TAA's disadvantageous position in relation to penetration of the private business market. 
Assistance with the financing of aircraft purchases. Repayment of loans totalling in excess of $100m have been guaranteed by the Government on behalf of the private airline. 
Additional route licences which have allowed Ansett to expand its mainline operations without comparable matching expansion by TAA. 
Limitation on increase in air navigation charges and fuel tax on Ansett's request. Under the airlines agreements, air navigation charges can rise no more than 10 per cent in any one year and increases in aviation fuel tax may only rise in line with increases in the tax on motor spirit. 
Use of the profit target legislation to increase TAA's profit relative to ATI. This section was inserted into TAA's Act at the request of ATI in 1959 and the profit target has risen progressively from  6i  per cent to 10 per cent since that time. 
Financial assistance in 1967-68, when Ansett was in financial difficulties following the loss of a Viscount airliner at Winton. The Government arranged for the refund of duty paid on Boeing and DC9 aircraft, increased air mail rate paid to the airlines and authorised increased subsidy payments to ATI. 
It is illuminating to note that with the exception of the limitation on increases in air navigation charges and fuel tax and refunds on customs duty and increased mail rate granted in 1967-68, which could hardly have been given to Ansett unilaterally, the assurances wrung out of the Government by TAA last year and without which TAA would not have signed the 1972 Agreement are the only significant steps towards some semblance of parity with Ansett to which over the last 20 years TAA has been subjected. This comparison shows how the previous Government, down 'through the years, has added disadvantages and disabilities in a so-called equal and fair competition airline. Are these steps to be made valueless now by the Opposition amendment which everyone knows is the result of years of pressure by Ansett and has in truth no relevance to the 2 airline system. It can have no effect other than to pile further advantages on Ansett at the expense of TAA and the Australian public. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate in his capacity as Minister for Customs and Excise. Has the Minister seen recent Press reports that people from a small village in southern Japan have been severely affected by mercury poisoning from contaminated fish and that a number have died? Can the Minister say what steps have been taken by the Australian Government to protect the public from contaminated fish imported from overseas? 
It is  quite obvious that the 7 Opposition senators who have spoken in this debate - many of them to the full extent of the time allowed under the Standing Orders - have had ample time in which to put the Opposition's case. Therefore, to enable other business of the Senate to be dealt with, I move: 
That the question be now put. 
Question put. 
1 made arrangements with the Opposition Whip that we would divide the 3 hours which were available for the debate. The Government had 6 speakers and there were 2 Opposition speakers.  Senator Young  assured me that  Senator Maunsell  and  Senator Hannan  would speak for a limited time.  Senator Hannan  proceeded to speak for 30 minutes instead of the promised 20 minutes. 
It was that 10 minutes which was to have been used by  Senator McManus. 
I have the leave of the Senate to make a statement.  I  am trying to point out the arrangement which was made by  Senator Young  for  Senator Hannan  to complete his speech in 20 minutes to enable  Senator McManus  to have his 10 minutes. It was a breach of the arrangement by  Senator Hannan  which has caused this whole difficulty. 
I preface my question, which is directed to the Attorney-General, by stating that a recent Australian Broadcasting Commission 'Four Corners' program graphically presented the subject of telephone bugging in Australia which, naturally, has generated widespread public interest. Has the Attorney-General's attention been drawn to a statement made by  Mr J.  S. Baker, Federal Secretary of the Union of Postal Clerks and Telegraphists, that the union is very concerned about telephone bugging and that there were real grounds for examination of the security of the public communications system in Australia? Will the AttorneyGeneral initiate an investigation to ascertain which department, State or Federal, has obtained information by bugging and how such information, if there is any, could be collated? Has he knowledge of any staff employed by any government instrumentality to handle such information? Who would have access to such information, if there is any? 
I should just like to remind  Senator Hannan  that his Party's Whip arranged with me that he would speak for 20 minutes. It was under those conditions that we were able to allow  Senator McManus  to speak for 10 minutes and arrange that  Senator Bishop  would curtail his speech. Without my knowledge  Senator Hannan  continued to speak past the 20 minutes. I think he will recall that, because the Opposition Whip was not in the chamber, I walked across and reminded him of the arrangement. He ignored my request. I went out to see the Opposition Whip and he said that  Senator Hannan  was speaking for 30 minutes so I did not make any move to ask him to curtail his remarks. He bad every right under the Standing Orders to speak for 30 minutes, but some debates have to be a little bit ordered. The arrangement that was made to try to fit the full debate into the 3 hour period was altered by  Senator Hannan  speaking for an extra period. Therefore, whatever remarks were thrown across the chamber at  Senator Hannan  were made because of the arrangements that were made earlier, that he should speak for only 20 minutes. 

 Chairman of Committees has nothing to do. with the arrangements made by the Whips. They are private arrangements made between themselves and it is not a matter for debate inside the Senate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Senate adjourned at 11.3 p.m. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate in his capacity as Minister for Customs and Excise. The Minister will be aware of the very large number of passengers arriving in Australia, particularly by air, and the newspaper reports of delays which occur from time to time in the processing of passengers through Customs, particularly at Mascot airport. Will the Minister advise what steps are being taken by him to speed up the clearance of passengers while ensuring that effective checks are made against possible smuggling or the importation of goods subject to quarantine? 
I wish to address myself to the substantive motion before the Chair,  Mr President.  1 understand  Senator Cotton's  motive for moving this motion. He is an economist of some years' experience and has interested himself in many aspects of the economy. But I would point out to him that the reference contained in this motion is one which would be outside the scope of the Joint Committee on Prices. The Joint Committee was appointed to inquire into and, as appropriate, report upon the following matters: 
complaints arising from prices charged by private industry and by the public sector; 
movements in prices of goods and services in particular fields or sections of private industry and by the public sector - 
That part was added by the Senate -  for example as measured price indices; and 
such other matters relating to prices as may be referred to the committee by resolution of either House of the Parliament. 
This motion relates to paragraph (c). This motion requests the Committee to examine the whole basis of the complex law of supply and demand in the community. 

 Senator Cotton has asked the Committee to investigate certain aspects of the costs of those goods and services. The first is increased costs arising from industrial stoppages and strikes. How could a committee ever be expected to investigate the increased costs arising from industrial stoppages and strikes? If one were to do so what would be the. purpose of its doing so when the basic cause of industrial stoppages and strikes is inherent in the very economic system under which we are living? There is no answer to that. It depends on the law of supply and demand. It is part of the continuing battle that has been waged over the last 150 years of our economic system. 
At one time labour was available on demand. It came from the fields, from the villages. As it was made available by the peasants it was expendable. It was taken into consideration at the price which the employer was prepared to pay. When the employer felt so inclined he could discard that labour as he would discard a disposable package or something like that. In those days the employer did whatever suited him at the time. So it would be necessary to go right back to the basis of our economic system as it exists. We are going to have industrial stoppages and strikes as long as the battle continues between, on the one hand, those who have their labour and their service to sell and, on the other, those who own the means of production, distribution and exchange of commodities for the purpose of profit. There is going to be a continuing battle, a philosophical battle, an ideological battle. 

 Senator Cotton has asked a committee which was set up for the simple purpose of examining what is causing inflation and the like to deal with such a very involved problem. He has also asked the Joint Committee to investigate the additional costs that will be brought about by the granting of 4 weeks annual leave. He has not specified to which section of the community the fourth week of annual leave is to be granted. A large proportion of the community is now enjoying 4 weeks annual leave.  Senator Cotton  is in effect asking the Committee to differentiate between a person who has 3 weeks annual leave, who has a wife and children and who has amenities in his home that he has to pay for, and another man who has 4 weeks annual leave. The Committee is to be asked to say what effect would follow the granting of an additional week's leave, to the man who has 3 weeks annual leave. 

 Senator Cotton has not taken into consideration the fact that the whole trend of modern society is towards labour saving devices. He has not taken into consideration the benefits derived from improved technology. The Government believes that the ordinary man in the community should get some benefit from the technological advances in the sophisticated society in which we live. The Government does not believe that it is the prerogative of the profiteer to skim all the cream off the improvements brought about by the work of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation and the unselfish men in laboratories throughout the world who devote their lives to trying to lift the burden from the shoulders of the human beings inhabiting the earth. It is not the exclusive prerogative of the profiteer to be able to get all the benefit from improvements. We believe that some of this benefit should filter down to the ordinary citizen in the community. The benefits derived from the introduction of labour saving devices should be shared, if not equally then on a proportional basis. Whether people receive 3 or 4 weeks' annual leave is really a matter for the courts and not for a joint committee of the Parliament. 

 Senator Cotton has also asked ; quite rightly ; what additional cost will be brought about by the granting of a working week of less than 40 hours. Exactly the same argument applies because a large proportion of the community does not work 40 hours. The Public Service does not work 40 hours. Many people work 40 hours a week but two or three of those hours are worked on an overtime basis. Some people work 60 hours a week. Some people have to send their wives to work in order to obtain a living wage. In some families the wife works 40 hours a week and the husband works 40 hours a week just to keep the family going. The continuation of a 40-hour working week is another of the myths that still exist in the minds of Opposition senators. 
Only the other day I addressed a meeting of a committee which was set up 60 years ago. It was the sixtieth anniversary of the Eight Hour Day Committee. Its long range objective was for 8 hours of work, 8 hours of rest and 8 hours of leisure. That was the objective which people worked for 60 years ago. We were able to reflect upon the battle we had to achieve those conditions and  we  looked to the future for the emancipation of our fellow man. The 40-hour week is something that has arrived and passed. It is only a matter of how long one has to keep a man employed to make a profit from him. We look to a society in which the purpose of work is to achieve a higher level of man's estate and in which he will have time, if  he  has had proper education, to appreciate  his  leisure hours and work will be only  a  means to an end. But these philosophies are foreign to honourable senators on the Opposition side. They believe that man is a horse and that one only has to put him in a collar to make him work. A horse is better off than man. A horse has to be fed when he is turned out whereas a man can simply be turned out, and if there is no alternative he could starve. In other words, if it was not for social service benefits which have been improved by rebels in the community he could starve. Except that he has certain rights, man could starve for all the profiteers care about him. These are the important considerations involved in this motion which is before the Senate tonight. 
To get on to the technical level,  Senator Cotton  said that the Committee should investigate the rise in wages relative to the rise in productivity over periods of time as determined by the Committee. This is an impossible task to give to the Committee because this is implicit in the whole of our system, like the chicken and the egg. In other words, if there is a rise in prices and the cost of living goes up, the courts then increase wages. So we have this continual cycle of the dog chasing its tail. The motion proposed by  Senator Cotton  is in effect asking this Committee to solve this problem. Part of  Senator Cotton's  motion reads: 
That the foregoing resolution be communicated  to  the House of Representatives by message. 
When the House of Representatives received the message it would see that the terms of the motion are far beyond the terms of reference of the Joint Committee on Prices. I would just like to indicate - the Minister possibly will be speaking along the same lines - that  I  am opposed to this motion. 
-I would like to associate myself with the condolence motion relating to the late Arthur Augustus Calwell, I was closely associated with him in this Parliament for the past 26 years. I first met him when he was a Minister in the Chifley Government. Arthur Calwell was the type of man that one comes across very rarely. He had an immense capacity for work: He applied himself diligently to every task that he undertook and with a determination that was inspiring. He had a capacity to give generously of his great gifts to his fellow men. He was a tough fighter for the causes in which he believed, yet outside the Parliament and in ordinary every day life he had a degree of generosity that was quite extraordinary. 
I should like to place on record a tribute composed by Leslie Haylen. I believe it expresses what -we all think about Arthur Calwell. This tribute is entitled simply 'Arthur' and states: 
ARTHUR 
When a man dies and his friends weep, That is life and death in their order, But when a man dies and his enemies weep, That is greatness crossing the border. 
When a man dies and the dark cathedral Quivers to Bach, high mass and the singing of angels, Then is a great man rewarded For the sorrow, the rage and the anguish of the crusader. 
When a man dies and his friends say He was a mate was Arthur' Labor to the soul, a fighting chief To the men who will come after. 
These are the tributes greater than The candles, the incense and the flowers.  Mr Melbourne  has gone to his rest Amid the wreaths and the bells in the tower. 
But some night when the mist comes Up from the river And the burly wind beats in From the sea, 
A footfall is heard in the streets of his city The shade of a comrade remembered, The sigh of a conscript he freed. 
I think that was a beautiful tribute paid to the late Arthur Calwell by Leslie Haylen. I conclude my remarks by offering my deep personal and sincere sympathy to his widow and daughter and to his relatives who miss him so much. 
Can the AttorneyGeneral confirm recent reports to the effect that the Government intends introducing during this session legislation outlawing discrimination against Aborigines? Can he inform the Senate whether this legislation is aimed at implementing the provisions of the International Convention on the Elimination of all Forms of Racial Discrimination which was never done by this Government 's predecessors? 
My question is addressed to the Attorney-General in his capacity as the principal legal officer in this country. Can he inform the Senate the stage reached in the proposed establishment of a superior court of Australia? Is it possible for him to indicate at this stage when this very important development in Australia's judicial system is to become a reality? 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General. Can he acquaint the Senate with the circumstances surrounding the setting aside of a court martial decision late in 1942 against Lieutenant A. L. Reid of South Hobart, Tasmania, who was the first Tasmanian to win a Military Cross during the Second World War? Is it a fact that the Governor-General has recently agreed to a submission from the Government that the court martial proceedings and the decision in relation thereto be set aside? 
Has the attention of the Attorney-General been drawn to a report from the Prime Minister to the effect that the former Attorney-General,  Senator Greenwood,  has broken the law and Ministerial conventions in retaining documents that he acquired as a Minister? In view of the growing prevalence of leaking from security documents and the possession of confidential documents, euphemistically called 'mementoes', what measures are proposed to bring equality before the law for all citizens in the country, including senators, found to be in illegal possession of confidential documents? 
I direct a question to the Attorney-General. In view of the widespread interest created by the decision to set aside the finding reached in 1942 of the court martial of Lieutenant Reid, a Military Cross winner of Hobart, Tasmania, will the Attorney-General explain how this came about after so many years advocacy? 
 I refer to clause 6, which states: 
Subject to this Act, the School has power to do all things that arc necessary or convenient to be done for or in connection with the performance of its functions and, in particular, has power - 
to enter into contracts; 
to erect buildings; 
to occupy, use and control any land or building owned or held under lease by the Commonwealth and made available for the purposes of the School; 
to acquire, hold and dispose of real or personal property; and 
to accept gifts, devises and bequests made to the School, whether on trust or otherwise, and to act as trustee of moneys or other property vested in the School upon trust. 
It would appear that this is a complete statutory corporation. Will this clause give responsibility to the Minister and will it be included in the consideration that is to be given to the relationship between ministerial responsibility and such statutory corporations? 
Can the Minister for Primary Industry confirm reports coming from overseas that there is anticipated a world grain shortage in the coming year? If these reports are true, what steps are being taken to inform farmers growing grain of this possible increased demand? Finally, can the Minister provide estimates of the current wheat acreage in Australia and the prediction of the size of our coming harvest? 
Has the Minister for the Media noted the comments made or did he hear the comments made, in this chamber recently by  Senator Wright  who suggested that the Australian Broadcasting Commission had adopted a sycophantic attitude to the Government acid to the Minister for Primary Industry in particular on the issue of the King Island shipping service? In view of the exaggerated and unwarranted suggestions, has the Minister any reason to believe that the Australian Broadcasting Commission has departed from its usual impartiality of reporting on this issue? 
The contribution of  Senator Prowse  in this debate the purpose of which is to amend the Public Works Committee Bill to provide for an increase in the cost of a project which is necessary before it is given to the Joint Statutory Committee on Public Works for examination has been in my view a constructive one. Tt has been sufficiently convincing that we do not really need to extend the debate very much further.  Senator Prowse  has pointed out the details of the work load that is being imposed on the committee which is one of the oldest joint committees of the Parliament. It has a long and very favourable history of dedication and devotion to the work of Parliament. It is worthwhile mentioning that the portfolio of Public Works and the Department of Public Works have possibly come in for less criticism over the years from the public or in the Parliament than any other. I believe that this is because of the work that is done by the Public Works Committee in scrutinising the projects that have been put before it. The detailed examination which the projects receive and the final recommendations of the Committee are of such a quality that the Committee has shown itself to be not only a watchdog for the Parliament but also a very valuable adjunct to the administration of public works in this country. 
I have been a member of the Public Works Committee possibly longer than anybody else in the Parliament. My experience has proved this quality over the years, not because we were not able to spend more hours scrutinising but because of the fact that every section of the Public Service associated with presenting details of the project to the Committee consisted of conscientious and highly intelligent public servants who knew the requirements of the Committee very well and they had the details there available if they were required. The comparison that was made relating to the hours which were spent at sittings on the projects is not completely relevant. I have been present at meetings on wharf facilities in Darwin, the high school in Darwin, the Australian Broadcasting Commission building in Perth, the airport and public buildings in Hobart, the Commonwealth Centre in Melbourne, the Redfern mail exchange in Sydney and other buildings in other parts of the Commonwealth particularly at Townsville in Queensland on the airport and on the Townsville wharf. This last was a problem specially referred to the Committee. We not only had to travel great distances but also public servants had to travel them. It was not a matter of the number of meetings we held but of doing the job thoroughly. I pay this compliment to my predecessors and successors on the Public Works Committee: Their reports Which have come to this Parliament carry prestige and reliability. 
I was very pleased to hear the tribute which  Senator Prowse  paid to our colleague  Senator Cavanagh.  We hope that his moment of great anguish will soon be overcome and that his wife will soon be restored to good health. I endorse those sentiments expressed by  Senator Prowse. 
But I would like to make one further important point. This Committee is composed of 9 members of Parliament, all of whom have their electoral work to do and parliamentary duties to perform. Practically all of them are members of other committees. The workload is such that some reasonable and rational approach must be made to help them solve the problem that confronts them. In this day and age the type of facilities being constructed for the Government of the country has altered. Previously if a post office or a set of public offices was built it would consist more or less of 4 walls with perhaps some ornaments on the outside but with very few facilities and amenities inside. This was in marked contrast to what is required today. We have seen in these big public works projects the development of airconditioning, carpeting and staff amenities and facilities, as well , as complicated amenities such as car parking. As  Senator Poyser  mentioned, when a large public work is undertaken or a public building is erected in any city, or in any area for that matter, studies of the environment and many other aspects have to be coordinated with the proposed construction. Although these studies increase the cost of a project, I believe that it is necessary that they be taken into consideration when now planning a public building. 
So the virtue of the Public Works Committee, as I see it, is that it continues to be a scrutineer and watchdog of the expenditure of public moneys on public works. The very existence of the Committee and its long history of conscientious work act as that screen on behalf of the Parliament. The proposed amendment is virtually a minor one and it is a compromise, but we are in a realistic way trying to reduce the workload of the Committee to a certain extent by admitting that rising costs have made it imperative that the limit be lifted. This, combined with all other factors, makes this amendment a very reasonable one. There has been some discussion on whether the limit should be $2m or 1.5m. It is not much good the Committee receiving 35 or 40 references if it cannot handle them. This is the thing to be considered. As I have said before, members of the Public Works Committee have many other commitments and responsibilities. Although they do the job very well it is just ridiculous for us to ask them to give more of their time than they are giving at the moment in order to handle the projects placed before them. I understand that in the coming period these will number between 50 and 60, 
When it is considered that in the last 3 years the number of references to the Committee has doubled, and it is about to double again, we have to find some way of dividing the Committee into sub-committees, but there are disadvantages in that idea. I think it is very valuable for each member of the Committee to have a knowledge of the continuity of the works coming before the Committee. For that reason I believe that we just have to face up to the facts of life and adopt the figure that we have nominated as being the limit below which reference need not be made to the Committee. Of course, projects costing less than the limit still can be referred to the Committee because there are provisions in the Act which provide that any work can be referred, regardless of its cost. These provisions act as safeguards. I am sure that the Committee will be prepared to. meet any reasonable demands that are made on it. 
Finally, I want to pay a tribute to those members of the Public Works Committee who have done such a good job in past years and who have handled the great number of references that have been placed before them. I do not envy them the task of having to evaluate 30 to 40 references which involve projects each costing more than $2m. Because of the work load it is placing on all members of this House, I can only hope that the whole committee system will sort itself out so that it is in a better position than it is at the moment. Members are finding that the time element is such that they cannot physically attend all the committee hearings that they are obliged to attend. So I hope that the correct emphasis will be kept on the work of the Public Works Committee because of its long tradition of service as a scrutineering committee, because of the work that it has done, and because of the savings that it has made over the years through recommendations and suggestions that it has made to the Parliament as a result of its investigations. I hope that this Committee will be able to function effectively and continue to do the good work that it has done over the years. I support the amendment. 
 I preface my question to the Minister for Primary Industry by saying that in his Budget Speech the Treasurer indicated that funds would be provided by the Government to assist areas of the fruit growing industry that may be adversely affected by the removal of sales tax exemptions from carbonated fruit juices containing more than 5 per cent of fruit juice. As one sector of the industry, namely the lemon growers, is facing difficulties as the picking of the crop is now taking place, will the Minister consider urgently and sympathetically applications from any section of the fruit growing industry for financial assistance? 
I intervene in the debate merely to allow the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  to continue any remarks he may wish to make. 
-My question, which is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate, follows a question asked on 29 August by the Leader of the Opposition,  Senator Withers  and is related to the site for the second Sydney airport. Is the Leader of the Government at this stage in a position to provide information about land holdings of  Mr Sim  Rubensohn in the area? Is he able to give the Senate any indication of whether any member of the Labor Party or its associates owns or has sold land in the Galston area? 
-We reject the urgency motion that is presently before the Senate on the ground that the Government has undertaken to help Australia overcome the legacy that it inherited from the previous Government. That Government had been in power for 23 years. It had a fiscal policy which was unpredictable in any section of the community. Under it we had a series of semi-booms and periods of considerable unemployment. Earlier an honourable senator mentioned the position on the stock exchange. We saw fluctuations in the prices of stocks with every spiv around the country being able to exploit the small stockholder. We saw more scandals involving finance than the country had ever seen before. To be quite candid, Australia at the present time is suffering from a hangover from the previous Government. It is a hangover from the inheritance of a stop-go, boom and bust, unpredictable financial policy. So, we make no apologies to the Opposition or to  Senator Cotton  about these matters today. 
We want the people of Australia to know that this Government is coming to grips basically with the problems of a reduction in consumers' purchasing power and increased costs to home buyers. We know that during the latter pan of 1 972 the rate of inflation was greater than it had ever been before in our history. The previous Government hoped that it would be able to buy votes with its last Budget. But the voting public of Australia had realised that that Government was no good to them and that the country was being sold out to overseas investors. Multinational companies had their octopus grip around the industries of this country. For that reason, the people threw that Government out on its neck. After 8 months of application to the great task of trying to put Australia back on to its feet, we are being criticised by an Opposition that did nothing although it was in government for 23 yearsfor a generation, nearly a quarter of a century. After this Government has been in power for 8 months, the Opposition has the temerity to attack it for a reduction in the consumers' purchasing power and increased costs to home buyers. 
What have we seen in the past in the timber industry with which  Senator Cotton  has been associated for such a long time? We have seen the whole of that industry charge the building industry prices which were passed on and which in turn inflated the cost of houses. We have seen, as often has been debated in the Parliament, the effects of the thief inflation that takes away purchasing power, particularly that of those in the community who are least able to withstand the loss. I refer to those on fixed incomes, the aged and the invalid and other less fortunate people in the community. This process has been built into our economic system. We are making a very strong attempt to adjust the economy. I can understand the frustration of members of the Opposition. When their own policy is being shown up in such sharp relief they want to find a way out from under and a way to criticise the present Government. 
Reference is made to damage to export industries and local manufacturers. I draw the attention of honourable senators opposite to the reports in the Press during the last month or 6 weeks which deal with the tremendously improved profits of so many organisations throughout Australia. I saw in one financial column reference to the depression on the stock exchange- and quite frankly rightly so. If  Senator Rae  and some of his colleagues who sit on the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange were to hurry up and present their report the reasons why the Australian people have lost confidence in the activities of the stock exchange would be shown. The stock exchange was inhabitated and dominated by people many of whom were most unscrupulous. Proof of my claim is to be found in the scandals associated with Armstrong, Barton, Eskell and the Minsec organisation and all the other economic scoundrels who were allowed to operate in Australia. The previous Government did nothing about that situation. Honourable senators opposite talk about damage to export industries and local manufacturers. But the facts are that in the past 6 weeks we have seen the annual reports of countless companies showing economic buoyancy never before equalled. Myers, Woolworths and other big retail and chain stores and industries around Australia have all presented most buoyant annual reports and shown higher profit returns. 
I challenge the next speaker on the Opposition side to tell me what section of the export industry is being damaged by the Government's action. Let us look at the export beef industry. We find that more than 60 per cent of our beef production is being exported. If this situation continues it will greatly damage our local domestic market. It will be practically impossible for the Australian beef consumer- beef represented a great percentage of the diet of Australians in the past- to buy beef as he has done down through the generations. The export beef industry has never been so buoyant in its whole history. I want to know what damage has been done to the export industries and what damage has been done to local manufacturers. We heard a great hoo-haa at the time of revaluation in December. The facts show that actually the Australian dollar has held a very good value on the world market. The Australian dollar would be one of the most stable currencies in the whole world. We can pay dollar for dollar- and more- and this is more than the international economists think about other currencies such as the United States dollar and sterling for that matter. 
It is not the strength of our currency thai has caused the alteration in value. Overseas monetary manipulation has affected the Australian dollar and has given rise to the need for adjustments to be made to the Australian dollar. Also, I warn members of the Opposition that we have to be very careful that we do not import the effects of overseas inflation. Many of our importers and local manufacturers are obtaining some of the components of their products from overseas. Prices in Japan, Hong Kong and the United Kingdom are all rising. In turn we are inheriting and importing inflation from those countries. 
That is the unkindest cut of all as its consequence is unemployment. The records of employment in this country reveal that never since the War when we had to put every man jack of our employable forces into either the armed services or some industry have we had such a high ratio of employment. It was said earlier in this debate that we have more vacancies than there is manpower to fill them. We have plans to retrain and educate people to new skills which they need to acquire in addition to skills taught in their early days and to reduce the number of unskilled people in our community. The employment picture that we paint is very much brighter than has ever existed before for employees and the working people of this country. 
It is my view- and it is held quite widely- that the claim that the consequence of affected industries will be unemployment is a false charge against us for the simple reason that many people welcome a change from the monotony of the humdrum mechanisation of industry today. We saw an illustration of this in the motor industry. Many new Australians, through their lack of knowledge of the English language and perhaps lack of means to move from area to area, must continue to experience the humdrum monotony of the chain system of production. Out of frustration and because they had no opportunity to get away from the monotony of their jobs they went on the rampage. It is our view that it does not do people any harm to change their jobs. The fact is that one in every five families in Australia today is leaving its home voluntarily for a change of environment. This is different from what we used to see in the old days when people were absolutely chained to the one home, the one suburb and the one job all their lives. Today, promotions come along and opportunities are available. People can live much more fruitful and interesting lives if they are not chained to the one job all their lives. The idea that a person is a slave, chained to his boss and unable to move, has gone. We do not accept that any longer. We believe in the dignity of the human being and in his ability to contribute to the national product. He is a valuable unit in the society. We value his contribution to the national production of this country. We wish to improve his terms and conditions of employment, the conditions under which he lives and the quality of life that he can expect. 
The subject matter of this debate is what we are being criticised on. We wish to lay the foundations and to show that all previous values must be reconsidered and improvements achieved. A further section in the urgency motion says:   the consequence of unemployment in affected industries, without any significant import on Australia's inflationary problems, of the Government's dollar revaluation and the action to increase interest rates. 
The policy of the Government has been quite clearly stated by the Prime Minister. He admits that inflation is the major economic problem facing us today. As we all know, inflation robs people by reducing the purchasing power of their savings. It is altering the distribution of income, often in an arbitrary way. This is not new to us because we have anticipated this situation. We constantly criticised the previous Government because of its lack of action in coming to grips with this problem. As a consequence we are fighting inflation on every front we can. If we feel that revaluation is of assistance we will revalue. If we feel that tariff cuts can be of assistance, we will review our tariff policy. There is no simple solution which can be achieved by adopting one line of policy. We believe that certain powers should reside in the Australian Parliament. The Parliament should have the power to be able to control prices. We hope that a referendum seeking to give the Parliament that power will soon be held. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)-  Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 

 -Mr President, I seek leave to make a statement. 

 -Mr President, there has never been any doubt as to where the Australian Labor Party stands on the matter of nuclear testing. We are very aware of the assualt on mankind that happened at Nagasaki and Hiroshima. We realise, of course, that there was a challenge to mankind in the reactionary fascist regimes that were astride the world at the time when an atomic device was exploded in Japan. This resolved temporarily a problem that faced the world. 
History will judge those who made those decisions and whether it was justifiable to end a war in that way. There is no doubt that that atomic device ended a war that was testing man's capacity to live as he wanted to live and freed man from one of the greatest scourges that was ever devised by man- a fanatical psychopath who had been built up by the fascist forces. The reactionary capitalist forces of the world had built up Hitler and he in turn was able to suborn others of his ilk like Mussolini and the powers in Japan in order to form a triumvirate or a troika, or whatever one likes to call the trio that challenged the rights of man to live in freedom on this earth. 
Some of our great scientists found the solution by splitting the atom. This was a change in the course of history. The experiment of man against his fellow man where he could resolve his problems by annihilation is not really part of the evolutionary process of mankind. Man has evolved from the mud and the depths into his present estate by the use of intelligence. That is the differentiation between man and the animal. The animal can destroy. The jungle makes it possible for brute strength to defeat the lesser species. But the human who claims to have devine origins is supposed to be above the level. Yet here we are in 1 973, after the experience in 1 945 of Nagasaki and Hiroshima, with people like  Senator Sim  who come into this Senate and try to justify the extension of this wicked, animal approach to the solution of man 's problems. 
-The testing of bombs to destroy your fellow man. It is as simple as that. 
-The fact that the honourable senator has this motion on the Senate notice paper shows that in his inner-most soul he would like to use the thermo-nuclear bomb to solve his problems. He has proved this. The honourable senator's colleague who sits on his left hand side- that is the only time that he has ever been on the left- would aid and abet him. 
I would have a good companion in that state while you were in the same chamber. One need only instance our friends who were killed in Chile yesterday to appreciate that we are living in a crisis. At the present time there are desperate people in the world who will take desperate measures. It is only a small step from a militarist coup that would destroy a democractic Government to the same desperado who will press the button and drop a thermo-nuclear bomb if he believes this will give him an advantage. You think that over, you clever intellectual. But I express my own attitude towards these things. I am bringing you into gear,  Senator Sim. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate in his capacity as the representative in this chamber of the Treasurer. Has the Leader of the Government seen the report in the Melbourne 'Herald' of 12 September- last night- under the heading Profit Boom Goes On', that 85 per cent of the preliminary reports presented by companies in the last 8 days showed higher results than in past years and that of the 291 companies reporting a profit 142 had increased dividend rates? Does this not indicate, despite the prophets of gloom on the Opposition benches, that companies involved in textiles, timber, paper, wool broking, mining, oil and numerous other ventures are expanding and prospering under the progressive and constructive policies of the present Government? 
I address a question to the Minister for Customs and Excise. I refer to yesterday's Press reports of the seizure of a substantial quantity of heroin at Darwin last Saturday. I would like the Minister, if he can to do so, to provide the Senate with information on this seizure and in particular to advise on the method used to smuggle such a quantity of this drug. 
I draw the attention of the Attorney-General and Leader of the Government in the Senate to what amounts to a serious breach of parliamentary privilege in the publishing last evening in the Sydney 'Sun' of details of a report of the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Prices concerning meat prices before the report had been presented to Parliament, thus placing all members of the Committee in an invidious position. As this is the third occasion recently on which the Press and the media have published material to which they should not have had access, will the Attorney-General consult with the  President  of the Senate and the  Speaker  of the House of Representatives with a view to reminding the Press and the media that the Parliament takes a very serious view of people contemptuously breaching parliamentary privilege? 
-This matter has been well canvassed over a period of time and I therefore move: 
That the question be now put. 
Question put. 
My question, which is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate, concerns  Mr Azzam,  the Somali citizen who illegally entered Australia. Is he still in Australia? Has the Minister any information as to whether newspaper reports suggesting that while he was imprisoned here he was interrogated by Israeli security officers are correct? 

 - Mr President, my question is directed to you. Following your statement yesterday relating to the introduction of an emergency power generating system in Parliament House, are you able to give an assurance that sufficient heating will be available in the Senate to counteract the rather frosty atmosphere which is developing on the benches opposite and which can almost be described as a hoar frost? 
-Will the AttorneyGeneral outline to the Senate the measures he proposes to take to give women equal status, in a Bill of Rights later to be drawn up, after the 23 years of neglect of such an important and widely accepted principle by the previous Government? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. In view of the threat that the Middle East crisis could exacerbate the world fuel shortage, will the Leader of the Government advise the Senate whether our present oil policy in Australia could be reviewed and whether exports of hydrocarbons to Japan from our limited resources could be tailored to give our present and future domestic requirements the highest priority? 
Senator Lawrie has repeated the cry, which is attempted to be spread throughout the community, that our Government has an anti-rural policy. The facts are that the rural industries at present are sailing along on a better level, on a more even keel, with more confidence in the future and with higher morale than they were in the last 25 to 30 years. There was a brief boom in the wool industry in the early 1950s when there was a world shortage of wool, and wool sold at one pound for lib. There is an accepted cycle- a boom and depression psychology- and that price soon went downhill. With bad seasons and low wool prices, the wool industry became very depressed. The elastoplast or sticking plaster technique of the previous Government in trying to cover up the cancer with sticking plaster so that it could not be noticed by the public continued and rural industries quite rightly received subsidisation. Over the years they have been the backbone of our economy. They have only recently been matched by the development of our magnificent natural resources- minerals and the like. Figures show that the value of the mining industry is approaching the level of the value of our primary industries. This is good. It is excellent to think that we have industries infusing prosperity into our nation and substance into our economy other than the traditional rural industries. 
I wish to put the record straight because Opposition members have tried to create the impression that this charge on meat export is a heavy tax. The charge to be made is 1.6c per lb. Of that amount, 0.6c is to be devoted to the very important matter of eradication of brucellosis and tuberculosis. The other lc is to go towards the everincreasing cost of meat inspection. Most people who have been associated with the meat industry during the past 10 years have realised that the traditional treatment of beef in our abattoirs has been on a level that was unacceptable to overseas buyers. Many municipal bodies, city councils and other instrumentalities have been involved in complete reorganisation and reconstruction of their abattoirs to meet the very rigid demands which have been made, particularly by the American importers. This reconstruction has involved the organisations in great expense. 
Indirectly, this has been of great assistance to beef producers because it has meant that a greater proportion of Australia's abattoirs was able to handle meat for export. I shall quote the figures. In the last 3 or 4 years the amount of beef exported has risen from about 54 per cent of the total production to the present figure of 66 per cent or 67 per cent of the total production. This meat is going through our abattoirs, after careful meat inspection and with improvements in our abattoir facilities. 
I deal now with the eradication of bovine tuberculosis. At one time the disease was a scourge. In my day infected beasts were called lumpies. Beasts had various stages of bovine tuberculosisfrom beasts with a little lump underneath the chin to beasts which were riddled with tuberculosis. The prevalence of this disease meant that our cattle had to be carefully inspected. Over a period of years all governments have been committed to the attack on this scourge of the cattle industry. As  Senator Lawrie  has informed the Senate- I can confirm it particularly in relation to my State of Tasmania- the campaign has been eminently successful. The incidence of bovine tuberculosis today has been reduced to practically negligible proportions. 
The beef industry still has a problem, and that is the problem of contagious abortionbrucellosis. It is a serious disease among stock and can cause heavy stock losses unless it is very carefully policed. An expensive campaign has been going on. The eradication of the disease necessitates very close inspection out in the field by the various authorities- the State Departments of Agriculture and other people who are engaged in inspection and receiving reports. The herds which are known to be infected have to be identified, isolated and quarantined. In many cases whole herds have to be purchased and slaughtered not only because of the contagious nature of brucellosis but because the destruction of infected herds is the only way that an outbreak in an area can be clamped down on. 
The eradication program and the meat inspection program have become costly. The meat inspection is necessary to assure our overseas purchasers who are taking 66 per cent of our total beef production that our export meat is disease free and slaughtered under the most hygienic conditions that man can devise. Overseas our beef has a wonderful reputation. It is expensive, as everything is these days, to maintain that reputation. One honourable senator mentioned the position of the beef producers 2 or 3 years ago. There were dry seasons. Many hundreds of thousands of square miles of Australia were in the grip of a drought. Much of it was cattle country. The cattle were in poor condition. The prices were low. The outlook was pretty grim for many of the farmers. At that time there was no thought of taking away any subsidies or of not continuing assistance to the primary producer or the beef producer. 
We must admit that today we have an overseas market that is practically insatiable. We received evidence  recently that there  will be a growing demand for beef in Europe, Japan, the Asian countries and the United States of America and that the future of the beef industry is very bright. Is not what is proposed in this Bill fair enough after years in which the taxpayers of this country have co-operated very generously through the parliaments, through both Liberal and Labor governments in the State and Commonwealth spheres? Prosperity has come to the industry and circumstances are such that the producer can get a very good price for his product. A comparison of prices is staggering. Beasts coming on to the market today are bringing $350 to $400 a head. Only a few years ago, a producer would be lucky if similar sized beasts brought $30 or $40 a head. This is the contrast prevailing at the present time. I do not think that if the position were presented to the farmer in a fair way he would begrudge these charges that are to be imposed. 
These are academic arguments. The point is this: If a man has an area of land on which he can grow beef and he could exist on it when he was receiving $30 or $40 a head for his cattle and is now receiving $200 a head for his cattle, he is able to pay his bills. He is able to catch up on the payments on his overdraft, he is able to replace his old jalopy Holden with a much more exotic and sophisticated motor car. So his standard of living has improved considerably with the good fortune of good seasons which, to say the least, are very widespread throughout Australia. Not only is he receiving a high price for his cattle but also he has an almost guaranteed market in the future. I could quote the forecasts that have been made by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics and by the Australian Meat Board. It is stated in the report of the Australian Meat Board: 
Under the stimulus of forecasts of increasing world-wide demand for meat Australian beef and veal production is expected to increase from 1,41 1,000 tons in 1972-73 to 2 million tons by 1980. 
This report goes on to say that the European, United States and Japanese markets are very buoyant. So what we are now asking the farmer to do, in all equity, is to lift the load from the back of the taxpayers for a little while. I can assure honourable senators opposite that if the occasion arose when the industry was in such a condition that these charges had to be transferred back to the taxpayer this would be the case. Do not let the farmer be mistaken about the position. We are just as sympathetic about his welfare and his expanding standard of living and for him to be able to do his job on the land with confidence, high morale and dignity as is any member of the Opposition. We want to give that assurance. 
But, of course, today we have abroad the greatest bunch of knockers that this country has ever known. They are stimulated by vested interests, the Press and by overseas hawks hovering around and wondering what will happen to the goods of which they thought they had a monopoly. But now the position has changed. Honourable senators have been frustrated by the events of 2 December 1972. They cannot get it into their heads that the Australian public changed the Government. They think that they have a God-given right to be the Government forever but they must realise that there is a new skipper in charge of the ship of state and that the ship is making great progress. Of course, the ship has many barnacles on its bottom. Those barnacles are the members of the Opposition. They could be called mental gymnasts but the trouble is that they are mentally musclebound and the only exercise they get is jumping to conclusions. They do a lot of that. I am telling honourable senators opposite that we believe the members of the farming community and particularly the beef producers will accept the proposition that .6c per lb is to be diverted and directed towards the continuation of a highly effective and efficient eradication scheme for the suppression of bovine tuberculosis and also the hunting down, isolating, quarantining and eradication of contagious abortion- brucellosis. 
I do not think that this proposition should scare anyone or stimulate any great amount of debate. It is a simple business proposition to protect the industry and to assist all sections of it including the farmer, the slaughterman, the exporter, all the way along the line to the consumer. The consumers know that they are receiving a first class product that has been produced by first class farmers in a great country. That is the reputation we want to have throughout the world. The legislation before us will assist us in that task. 
I would like to sound a note of warning to the Committee about these amendments. They may be promoted in all good faith to give an assurance to the producers, and the exporters in particular, because most of these activities will take place after the meat has passed from the farm, the saleyards and the abattoirs into the hands of the exporters. The exporters will be responsible for this levy on behalf of the people of Australia or the Government or whoever we like. 
Yes, for the payment of it. 

 Senator Young- Senator Drake-Brockman was talking about holding. 
-I am talking about the payment of it at the moment. I shall go on to the matter of the holding of it later. 
It will be the exporters. I mention to the honourable senator that the people who are making more money than the growers out of the beef industry today are the exporters. The exporter is sitting astride the meat industry as pretty as he has ever been because he has command of the world market- a scarce world market- and he can buy on our market at a relatively cheap level. People have said to me that Australians do not know how well off they are, how cheap their meat is. It has become too dear for us to buy on our wage level though internationally our beef is the cheapest in the world. 
I am just telling you a fact of life. 
-The exporter is getting the advantage of the great demand for our meat and he is being asked then to pay the minimum. Our advisers - (Honourable senators interjecting) 
Before I was rudely interrupted I was making the point that the exporter has the opportunity to exploit any market in the world that he chooses. There are not many of these exporters. Exporting of our beef is a sort of traditional monopoly and the exporters can pick the eyes out of the world's market because they have this splendid commodity for which there is a high demand throughout the world. So they are being asked now to get payment from the people overseas who want our beef, who enjoy eating it and who are forcing up the charges for the Australian consumer because of the great demand. Yet  Senator Drake-Brockman  on behalf of the farmers who are not getting very much of it- in fact, they are going to get nothing of this at all- wants to set up a trust account. 
They are not going to pay it, the exporters are going to pay it. The farmer gets nothing from the exporter. The farmer is like the Broken Hill Pty Company Limited or the man in Tasmania who produces wood chips. Once the product gets out of his hands, it gets into the hands of the people who make all the money out of it. The exporter himself - 
-The exporter or the exploiter gets more out of beef than does the farmer. Honourable senators must understand that. The exporter is being asked to collect this levy and  Senator Drake-Brockman  is asking the Government to put it into a trust account. The people who know a bit about the technique of exports, inspection and payments by levy will have recommended to the Government the minimum amount necessary to finance and service these charges. 
-It has been cut down. There is no one other than the taxpayer to fill the gap; and yet  Senator Drake-Brockman  wants the levy put into a trust account to pay the costs of inspection and of eradication of these diseases. But if the trust account runs out of funds as a result of inflation and other emergencies these services will not be financed. I mentioned earlier as a joke that members of the Opposition suffer from foot and mouth disease, that every time they open their mouth they put their foot in it. But there is a possibility of foot and mouth disease coming into Australia. It exists not far away in Bali, Indonesia. We must be careful. If such a disease came to Australia it could cost us tens of millions of dollars to try to eradicate it. Yet we have a suggestion for a trust account that could be fresh out of funds, with nothing in it. It would be supposed to fund these services which are so necessary for disease suppression and eradication and for inspections. How are we going to fund these services if the trust account runs out of credit? This has not been thought through, lt is a political gimmick. 
Opposition senators are saying that the big hand of the Public Service is going to put the money into Consolidated Revenue. Consolidated Revenue has been generously financing this fund for many years and the primary producer in his own way has been very grateful for the assistance which the Commonwealth and the States have given to him. This levy is the minimum amount that has been calculated to service this operation and to supply it to the primary producer.  Senator Drake-Brockman  would put it into a trust account but a future government could claim that there was nothing in the trust account, nothing to pay out for the services. So I just want to sound this note of warning that Opposition senators might be creating a rod for their own backs. 
What has been happening over the years? There has not been any cost. Subsidies have been going out as fast as they could go out in every direction from Consolidated Revenue, out of the taxpayers' pockets, to primary industries because they needed them. They needed an umbrella on a wet day and the governments provided it. Now we are providing for the industry in its prosperous days to meet the costs as it goes along. If it should run into rainy days again, the taxpayer will generously come forward and pay the cost. But when the industry can afford it, it should be prepared to pay its share of these costs. Honourable senators can be assured that no more is being levied under this Bill than is really necessary to finance the fund. 
I can assure honourable senators from my knowledge of the way in which these things work that the Government is asking for only the barest minimum from the industry to pay for these services. If we form a trust fund, as a result of inflation and all the other things that go with it the fund could run out of finance and we could have a breakdown. Honourable senators opposite should think this through, as it may not be the thing to have this trust fund. It may be better for the farmer to rely on the wider vision of governments of the day to appropriate at the right time the help necessary to finance these essential services in the industry. But if we concentrate the levy in a trust fund and then run short of funds we will find that these services deteriorate and depreciate. I give that word of warning to the Senate. 
Can the Leader of the Government in the Senate inform the Senate whether the Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  offered to make available to the Premier of New South Wales a presidential member of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in order to bring together the parties in the New South Wales power dispute? Did the Premier of New South Wales refuse this offer? Did he also refuse the offer of a compromise of a thirty-seven and a half hour week? Did the New South Wales Electricity Commission refuse to take available power from the Snowy Mountains Authority over the long weekend of 29 and 30 September and 1 October? Did the New South Wales Electricity Commission plunge the people of New South Wales into blackouts by ordering that generating plants stand idle? Has not this pattern of action that has been demonstrated by the New South Wales Government been part of a campaign to ride back to power on the sufferings of the public of New South Wales? 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for the Media. Can the Minister obtain for me information on how many radio and television stations were involved in the 10-minute blackout on Sunday, 30 September? Was it pure coincidence that the blackout occurred on almost all radio and television stations in the metropolitan area of Sydney for 10 minutes on Sunday, 30 September, while the Prime Minister was making his 10- minute address on the proposed referendum? 
My question is directed to the  Chairman  of the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange. In view of the time that has elapsed since the Securities and Exchange Committee completed taking evidence and the wide public interest in its findings, will the  Chairman  inform the Senate of the reasons for the delay in presentation and give some indication of when the report will be presented? 
I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate: What measures are in train to educate the Australian public as to the extent of multi-national organisations and their influence on the economic, industrial and political life of Australia? In view of the alarming escalation of military coups, undertaken by the military in conjunction with multi-national organisations such as the International Telephone and Telegraph Corporation and the Central Intelligence Agency, in countries such as Cambodia, Thailand and Chile, what measures are being taken by our Government to examine the activities of multi-national organisations in this country? 
I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate the following question: Is there any substance in the information that multi-national organisations are paying the salaries of the staff of office bearers of the Senate and House of Representatives? If not, could the Leader ascertain who is paying the salary of the secretarial assistants to the Opposition Whip in both the Senate and the House of Representatives? 
On Tuesday last I asked the  Chairman  of the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange,  Senator Rae,  whether  be  had any further information to supply relating to the presentation of the report of the Committee and he said that he would obtain some. I understand that there has been a meeting of the  Committee since then. I now ask the  Chairman  whether he has anything to report to the Senate. 

 - Mr President, I am in the same position as I was in last Thursday. I wanted to ask a question of the  Chairman  of the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange, but he is not present in the Senate chamber. 
-My question to the Minister for Primary Industry is inspired by a question asked earlier by  Senator Maunsell.  Can the Minister confirm a report by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics that farm income is expected to rise by 52 per cent, that is, by nearly $ 1,000m to a total of $2,865m in the 1973-74 financial year? If this potential phenomenal increase is a fact, should not the members of the Country Party be telling the primary producers that the gloom under which they lived for 23 years under the previous Government is being penetrated by a strong shaft of the light of solvency and prosperity? 
Tt surprises me quite a lot to hear  Senator Bonner,  who has just resumed his seat, introduce a discordant note on this very important matter now before the Senate. I associated myself with the demonstration in front of Parliament House the other day with a view to trying to resolve the problem and to take some of the heat out of this vexed problem. To me that demonstration illustrated the pent up frustration of the Aboriginal people over a century.  Senator Bonner  was conspicious because none of his people, as he calls them, called for him to speak or to represent them when the demonstration was obviously at its most critical stage. Yet he comes in here now and condemns or speaks in a critical way of the very type of legislation that can take the steam off this issue. 
I am not joking. I am deadly serious. I would like  Senator Bonner  to be more serious because he is representing the Liberal Party and Queensland in this Senate. Queensland is not the only State that has Aborigines. We have a problem in Tasmania and this legislation affects our Aboriginal people very closely. The setting up of an interim national Aboriginal consultative committee earlier this year has inspired a very keen interest among the remnants of the Aboriginal people who live in Tasmania in a better future, better housing, better educational facilities and in a general improvement of their standard of living, quality of life and status in the community. So that there will not be duplication and so that the constitutional powers that the Commonwealth sought and received giving it jurisdication over the program of which this Bill is an integral part, this Government has seen fit now to introduce this Bill to provide for arrangements to be made with the States in respect of Aboriginal affairs. I commend this Bill. The Government of course is very much behind the expansion and development of a council which can present its views directly to the Minister and in turn to the Parliament so that we all can participate in righting the wrongs of the past. It ill behoves  Senator Bonner  to be critical of this aspect of Aboriginal affairs. 
It was stated in the second reading speech, if it needs to be reiterated for  Senator Bonner,  that the responsibility which the Australian Government seeks in the States is for policy, planning and co-ordination. That is virtually the essence or nub of the legislation. We have had support from Opposition members and from members of the Democratic Labor Party, and I expected this Bill not only to be received very favourably in the Senate but also to be given a speedy passage. The only reason that I rose in this debate was to draw attention to the situation that  Senator Bonner  created by trying to refer to some demonstration that occurred the other day. He knows very well and honestly in his own heart that this Government was not the cause of that demonstration. Demonstrations occurred on the lawns of Parliament House when the Party which he represents formed the Government. The Aborigines then were lumbering on the river banks in the humpies that  Senator Bonner  and I know of. I lived with them in areas that he knows well. From what I can gather the situation is not very much different in those cases where Aborigines have been relegated to the woodheap and humpies on the edge of the tip in country towns. This has been an appalling situation and Aborigines are demonstrating now because nothing like this legislation has ever been introduced into the Federal Parliament. However, this subject will keep.  Senator Bonner  will have to justify his stand; we can most certainly justify ours. I support the Bill. 
The Minister for Primary Industry will recall that yesterday he answered a question directed to him relating to the assistance that was to be given in the wool sales by the Australian Wool Corporation. Has he seen the most recent reports appearing this morning that the market in Melbourne and Goulburn was very buoyant yesterday, that both Japanese and East European buyers are back in force and that the AWC had to buy only one per cent of the wool offered? Would he not agree that it would appear that the buoyancy and stability of the wool market that are being enjoyed at the present time are something that the wool growers of Australia have been seeking for more than 20 years? 
-The motion before the chamber has been moved for the purpose of debating a matter of urgency, namely, the Seamen's Union of Australia being used to boycott and destroy Tasmania's seaborne trade. As  Senator Wriedt  has pointed out, the language of the motion is exaggerated. It is quite obvious that both  Senator Wright  and  Senator Rae  get on board a ship every time it suits them. We noticed that they were very active a few months ago on the eve of their preselection for the Senate. Now we find that they have ceased to be barnacles and have got on board again when they have another issue which they can bring up on the air and by which they can delay the Senate in introducing overdue legislation which can bring equity to employees as well as employers throughout the country. For so long the employers of this country have had the protection of the Government. Now the other side of the bargain will be considered. We have legislation prepared which will resolve many of these problems. 
The matter of urgency uses the words 'destroy Tasmania's seaborne trade', lt is not Tasmania's seaborne trade. Japan's seaborne trade is the matter which  Senator Wright  has raised. When it happens to suit the Japanese a ship calls at South Australia to take Chrysler cars from South Australia via Hobart to New Zealand. Over the years there has been a long-standing agreementespecially since we have been in power- that Australian interstate shipping should be, as far as possible, carried out by Australians. There is this talk about destroying Tasmania's seaborne trade. There have been delays. Some of the reasons have been trivial but some have been in relation to negotiations for a common industry award. Instead of this problem being solved years ago there was a lack of communication between employer and employee. Many of these disputes are on the same basis. But the award is now in operation. The situation is that the dispute has been resolved. 
This matter could have been raised earlier but that would not have suited  Senator Wright  or  Senator Rae  because we have not been on the air since last Wednesday. It was settled in Sydney after a meeting of the unions had received an assurance that the question of Tasmanian trade would be discussed as soon as possible. The union delegate on the 'Poolta' said that a meeting of unions at Macquarie Wharf had decided to accept the Sydney recommendations. This is much ado about nothing. 
I know there has been an agreement that special consideration will be given to Tasmania. The unions have more or less made an agreement that that will be the situation. But this motion relates to the Seamen's Union. There have been disputes in other sections of the stevedoring industry. As was referred to today, the Federated Storemen and Packers Union had a dispute which was settled. The slaughtermen, members of the Australian Meat Industry Employees Union, were not so much in difficulties as protecting their own interests because overseas buyers were taking Tasmanian export beef to Victoria to be slaughtered. But these were domestic issues. They do not come into this exaggerated motion which is before the Senate relating to the monoply power of the Seamen 's Union being used to boycott and destroy Tasmania's seaborne trade. I think that the motion should be treated with the contempt which is its due. We should get on with the important business of the nation rather than allowing honourable senators opposite to use this Senate as a rostrum for pushing their own barrows. 
I ask the Mininster for Primary Industry whether it is a fact that an apple juice concentrating plant in Hobart is currently being installed for the purpose of producing apple juice concentrate for export and that this plant will produce 200,000 gallons of concentrate and will require 500,000 bushels of apples a year? Is it correct that the company involved has applied to import ' bitter sweet ' concentrate for the purpose of producing the finished product? Can the Minister advise whether permission has been granted to import the concentrate in order to allow this important 
Tasmanian industry to proceed and thus assist in revitalising the Tasmanian apple industry? 
-In the brief time which is at my disposal in this debate I would just like to draw attention to the subjectivity of the approach that has been taken not only by  Senator Little  but also by  Senator Kane  who moved the motion we are debating. In his remarks he called on the Australian Government to use its influence in the Security Council to bring world pressure to bear on Egypt and Syria to withdraw their forces behind the 1967 ceasefire lines. That was a partisan approach particularly in view of the resolution that had already been carried in the United Nations. It follows that we on this side of the chamber must stress Australia 's continued maintenance of neutrality and an even handed policy in the Middle East and continued support for the Security Council resolution 242 as an acceptable basis for a just and lasting settlement in the Middle East. I think it is proper that I should reiterate some parts of the text of Resolution 242 of 1967 to which  Senator Little  did not refer. I emphasise particularly that all member states of the United Nations in their acceptance of its Charter have undertaken a commitment to act in accordance with Article 2, which is concerned with world peace. I read paragraph I of the Resolution: 
. Affirms that the fulfilment of Charter principles requires the establishment of a just and lasting peace in the Middle East which should include the application of both the following principles: 
Withdrawal of Israeli armed forces from territories occupied in the recent conflict; 
That has never been achieved. The occupied lands conquered by the Israelis in the 1967 war have never been vacated. The 1 .3 million Palestinian refugees are still homeless and have never been able to return to their homeland, yet we are trying to allocate blame and specifically to pick out who started the war. I will refer to that a little later. The United Nations Resolution goes on: 
Termination of all claims or states of belligerency and respect for and acknowledgment of the sovereignty, territorial integrity and political independence of every state in the area and their right to live in peace within secure and recognised boundaries free from threats or acts of force; 
Affirms further the necessity: 
For guaranteeing freedom of navigation through international waterways in the area; 
Here I would like to refer to the closure of the Suez Canal, which is an abrogation of Resolution 242. The text goes on: 
For achieving a just settlement of the refugee problem; 
The refugee problem is still festering throughout the whole of the Arab countries. The text continues: 
For guaranteeing the territorial inviolability and political independence of every State in the area, through measures including the establishment of demilitarised zones; 

 Senator Kane said that there are 2 fundamental questions: How did the war begin and why did the war begin. He said that the answer to the first question was that it began with a premeditated and unprovoked attack on Israeli positions. Of course the situation is that the war began in the times before Christianity. There have been continuing wars right throughout the history of the Middle East area. The war could be said to have begun in 1933 with the pogrom of the Germans against the Jewish people in Europe. Anyone who saw with his own eyes the persecution and the degradation of these people in Europe realises the emotion and ' the compassion of members of the United Nations when eventually they were able to come to grips with finding a solution to this age-long problem of the Jewish people. 
The Jewish people have been inspired by the scriptural belief that they were children of Israel and that they would return. I suppose this could apply to all people throughout the Middle East because at some time or other they have had relatives or ancestors who have resided in the Holy Land or they have had contact with the Holy Land through this common allegiance to Mohammed.  Senator Kane  said that the answer to the second question as to how the war in the Middle East began was that it was started by Egypt, backed by Syria, because the Arab states were trying to achieve on the battlefield what they had been unable to achieve in the 6 years of maneouvering in the diplomatic and political arenas. How subjective can one be?  Senator Kane  made a judgment on 1 1 October. He finds now, on 25 October, that he has to move an amendment to alter his position because he knows very well that there can be no possible settlement of this dispute while the Israelis occupy the Sinai peninsula. 
They will cease to occupy it because that is conquest. In this day and age the world has learnt that it cannot win anything by conquest. Wars have to be outlawed and the people who supply arms to small nations to provoke wars should also be outlawed. The two super powers are aiding and abetting this bloodbath, this loss of humanitarianism which exists throughout the world towards these people and the loss of all the things which have been built up over a period of years of sacrifice. All this is being lost now because the super powersfor whatever purpose- have made it possible for these death dealing sophisticated weapons to be matched against these nations. These are not the wars of the religions or holy wars of a kind that have happened in the past. These are deathly final wars in which no quarter is given and no quarter taken. This lifts the situation to the level which man had hoped would never be reached again after the experience of the 1939-45 war and even the war which has just been settled in South East Asia. I look at this problem as being one in which we must confirm Australia's belief in the maintenance of a neutral and even-handed policy in the Middle East and a continued support of resolution 242 which we supported in 1947. We have constantly asked for a just and lasting peace for the Jewish people after their Gethsemane of Europe. We hoped that they would live in this land which had been given to them compassionately by the rest of the world. They had no rights to Israel. It was given to them by the other nations of the world. 
They had no rights to Israel whatever. After all, it was given to them by the United Nations. 
Debate interrupted. 
-The speeches that have been made by  Senator Withers  and  Senator Byrne  indicate that they are prepared to sacrifice the interests of the Australian Capital Territory to preserve the interests of an organisation that has set itself up over the years as a land development organisation instead of the purely rural organisation it was when it originally obtained the freehold title to certain land. The real facts of the matter are that the organisation concerned is claiming urban values for an area of land that is part of the Australian Capital Territory. Because of the vast expenditure that has been made in the Australian Capital Territory on behalf of the people of Australia this land has now become important in the future planning of Canberra.  Senator 
Withers has failed to observe the principle that has been established since Federation, namely, that urban development of this national capital has been and will be carried out only by and on behalf of the Australian Government. The only basis on which the acquisition price for these outlying areas could be calculated would be the value of the land as a grazing or rural property. 
Over a period of years the people involved have received advantages. Many services have been provided. The city itself has developed by the expenditure of taxpayers' money. There seems to be an attitude on the part of Opposition senators that the taxpayers of the country can be fleeced at any time, provided that the Opposition has the numbers. This Bill is confirming that freehold land held in the Australian Capital Territory for rural purposes should not have an advanced value because of the urban development by the Australian Government. In the past freehold land has been, acquired whenever it has been needed for developmental purposes and compensation has been paid on the basis of the value of the land for rural usage and taking into account the increased value of stock, wool and so on. Establishing the principle that all the remaining freehold land in the Australian Capital Territory has to be acquired at urban values means that the Senate will impose on the people of Australia a charge in excess of that which precedent and principle have established to be just and proper. In the past the possibility of paying compensation for this type of urban land has never arisen. So, this is a test case, and we admit that. 
Many departments have been transferred from other parts of the Commonwealth to Canberra and the city has been expanded dramatically and at very great cost to the taxpayers. Most of the provisions have related to Commonwealth activities. The original Act provided that the 9 1 1 square miles would be the property of the people of Australia. The arrangements that were made at the time of the proclamation of the Australian Capital Territory included a provision that the areas inside the Australian Capital Territory would be valued at rural rates. The intention of this Bill is that outstanding claims as well as claims arising from future acquisitions will be dealt with on the basis of the rural value of the land. It is my view that the claim which has been made- for about $35m- is exorbitant. I believe that the people of Australia should know of this exploitation and parasitism on the part of people who would like to burgeon on the taxpayers, aided and abetted by members of the Opposition. I believe that the people of Australia should know this attitude of members of the Opposition. Of course, it may be only a matter of pique, because the Liberal and Country Parties when in power laid down these guidelines for acquisition. It is not as though this Bill was conjured up out of the minds of members of the present Government. 
Before 1955 all acquisitions in the Territory under the Lands Acquisition Act had regard to the provisions of the Seat of Government (Administration) Act which had pegged values at the previous 1908 level. In 1955, under a Liberal-Country Party coalition government, legislation was introduced under which acquisitions continued on a rural value basis. So, we have this change of attitude by members of the Opposition because we are dealing with a considerable amount of money- about $35m. I am quite certain that plenty of pressure groups are involved. It was quite all right when the Liberal and Country Parties were in government to legislate to acquire land at rural values. Now we find that for some miserable, puny political point honourable senators opposite will support what to me is an outrageous claim on the taxpayers of this country. It is obviously an attempt to thwart the important plans for the development of urban Canberra. 
If this Bill is defeated because of the Opposition numbers in the Senate, I hope that the National Capital Development Commission will see its way clear to direct its development to other areas. The people concerned have had their full value from their holdings in this part of Australia under terms and conditions which in the past have suited them. If those people had taken a reasonable view, having regard to the other advantages that have flowed to Canberra through development and the provision of services and other facilities that have been provided here at the taxpayers' expense, they would have been quite prepared to have made some compromise with the authorities. In this debate members of the Opposition have shown themselves in their true colours. They are prepared to add this burden to the already heavy load on the backs of the taxpayers of this country. They may be doing this for a political point, or perhaps to gain favour with some privileged person or company or the descendants of some people who happened to have this land at the time of the original acquisition of this area as the site for the national capital. 
We believe that the assessment of compensation of properties- and there are other cases of course that will have to be dealt with at some time in the future- could be determined by an arbitrator. But this Bill is the machinery by which a just compensation and a reasonable payment can be made in accordance with the established basis on which the development of Canberra has proceeded down through the years, and on which compensation is paid on rural values. After all, this land is still rural land. It is in the future development of Canberra that this socalled added value will take place. It is necessary that planning be carried out so that the future development of the whole of this area can proceed. Therefore I support the Bill and hope that members of the Opposition will have second thoughts. I hope that they will consider the moral aspect of this matter and the outrageous claim against the taxpayer. We believe that any rights that the present freeholders have should be paid for on the basis that this is rural land. It has always been rural land and it will remain rural land until the development of Canberra spreads out into these areas. I support the Bill. 
Will the Minister for Primary Industry examine the possibility of proclaiming the rural property 'Lanyon' a rural area to be acquired in order to make it a national agricultural centre for the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation's animal breeding research, forestry and many other research and experimental activities carried on in numerous scattered areas within and without the Australian Capital Territory? 
-I bring up the following report from the Parliamentary Joint Committee on Prices: 
Import prices inquiry-price effects of currency changesReport No. 1. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I ask for leave to move that the Senate take note of the report. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)-  Order! Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
I move: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
This report on import prices, Report No. 1, which has just been tabled, is the second report presented to the Parliament by the Joint Committee on Prices. It is the first in a series of reports on this particular reference. As background, I draw the attention of honourable senators to the complex nature of this particular inquiry. The Committee faced difficulties in its investigations by the lack of appropriate statistical information. There is no genuine import price index, nor is there other statistical information on import prices collected on a cost, insurance and freightc.i.f. basis similar to that which is available in some other countries. Furthermore, changes in selling prices in Australia of imported goods cannot be obtained from the information collected for the compilation of the Commonwealth Bureau of Census and Statistics' consumer price index and wholesale price indexes. There is, therefore, no overall measure of the effect of revaluation or of other changes in landed costs on the selling prices of imported goods. This is a matter on which the Committee proposes to comment in a later report on this reference. 
Because of this absence of adequate statistical information the Committee had to pursue a commodity by commodity investigation to find out whether reductions in landed costs had been passed on to the consumer or user. The commodities and services covered in Report No. 1 are inward freight rates, tyres and tubes, timber and pharmaceutical products. A strict interpretation of the terms of reference requires the Committee to comment only on whether reductions in landed costs, following currency changes, have been passed on to the consumer or user. The Committee resolved to expand its terms of reference to ascertain whether landed costs have fallen in the first instance when they should have fallen, because of the currency changes. There is, therefore, also comment in this report on the effect of currency changes on landed costs. 
I consider that one of the functions of the Joint Committee on Prices is to inform Parliament and educate the community on this important subject of inflation. What this means for this particular inquiry is a description of the general background of revaluation. Incidentally, the Committee has preferred to use the term 'upvaluation' in referring to the increases in the value of the Australian dollar vis-a-vis other currencies. What should one expect from upvaluations? What are the net effects of upvaluations on domestic prices and so forth? These questions have been dealt with by the Committee in the first chapter of this report. When looking at the question of what to expect from upvaluations, we do have to face some popular misconceptions about benefits. Success of upvaluation as an ami- inflationary policy should not be judged solely by the extent to which consumer prices have fallen; success depends mainly on whether or not upvaluation has restrained increases in import prices. 
In the present climate of world-wide inflation, therefore, the success of the policy can be j judged only in terms of whether import prices would have increased, or increased even further, without upvaluation. In this respect the graph in the report on page 1 1 is very revealing. The graph shows that in the first 3 months of 1973 import prices did fall and a 'gap' opened between the lines representing price trends in overseas countries and Australian import prices. One important finding of the Committee, therefore, is that, against the background of continuing world inflation, upvaluation of the Australian dollar has restrained the increase in import prices. In other words, these import prices would have been significantly higher without upvaluation. 
I turn now to the individual commodities and services covered by this particular report. Concerning inward freight, the Committee recommends that the Australian Government obtains details of the currency adjustment factor, CAF, scheme as it operates overseas; and endeavours to find out whether the application of the CAF has enabled overseas shipowners to take advantage of the currency changes to obtain larger profits. 
Concerning the import of tyres and tubes into Australia, the Committee finds that reductions in the landed costs of these imports are being passed on to the consumer and user because of competitive market conditions at home and abroad. 
Concerning the imports of timber, the Committee found that there are restrictive practices of suggesting prices and profit margins in the timber industry and that these practices could reduce any advantage gained from upvaluation. The Committee therefore recommends that these practices be investigated by the relevant authority. Furthermore, the Committee found that export prices of timber have increased rapidly because of world shortages with the result that landed costs have also increased despite upvaluation. However, the evidence indicates that since in boom conditions exporters would not sell under the market price, upvaluation has assisted in restraining increases which would have been greater had there been no upvaluation. 
Concerning pharmaceutical products, the evidence received was mainly in respect of products coming within the pharmaceutical benefits scheme. The evidence given to the Committee shows that landed costs of imports from the United Kingdom and the United States of America, whose currencies have devalued against the Australian dollar, of fully finished goods and active ingredients have generally fallen as a result of the currency changes. Since the consumer buys prescription medicines at a subsidised price he has not benefited directly. He has benefited, however, as a taxpayer because these reductions would reduce relatively the costs of operating the pharmaceutical benefits scheme. Since prices are negotiated between the Department of Health and the manufacturers, the Committee was not able to find out the extent to which upvaluation was responsible for price reductions. 
The Committee found that some overseas manufacturers have taken advantage of the currency changes to raise their selling prices and, therefore, their profits. The means by which this has been achieved is by the overseas supplier quoting in Australian dollars. The Committee is not satisfied with the explanations given for this practice and is led to the conclusion that the overseas parent companies have been using their monopoly powers to obtain windfall profits from the Australian upvaluations. The commodities mentioned in the report are Intal, a drug used for the treatment of asthma, and Lyndiol and ()VOS.tat which are contraceptives. It is also possible that some of the benefits of upvaluation may have been lost in respect of the products Eraldin and Inderal. The Committee recommends that the Australian Government negotiates with the UK companies that export Intal, Lyndiol and Ovostat with a view to recouping some of the benefits lost. 
An associated question raised by the Department of Health and referred to by the Australian Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association during our inquiry is whether or not the Department should receive cost and profit information which would assist it in its negotiations with manufacturers on prices for drugs coming within the pharmaceutical benefits scheme. If the Department is able by these means to reach a better judgment on price, then this is relevant to the import prices inquiry. It is certainly relevant to the consumer as a taxpayer because the scheme costs the community in the vicinity of $200m per annum. Therefore, the Committee recommends that the National Health Act be amended to make it mandatory for companies to provide the Department of Health with cost and financial information in respect of products in the pharmaceutical benefits scheme. 
These, then, are the major findings and recommendations of the Committee in its first report on import prices. As I mentioned earlier, further reports on specific commodities will be tabled from time to time. I have to report that those present at one or more of the meetings when this report was considered and unanimously adopted were the  Chairman,  Senators Gietzelt and Prowse, the honourable members for Gippsland,  (Mr Nixon),  Phillip  (Mr Riordan),  EdenMoraro  (Mr Whan),  Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  and myself. The honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  was absent at the United Nations in New York. I understand that at least one other member- the  Deputy Chairman,  the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton),  who was not able to be present at these meetings -has arrived at a different conclusion on one or two of the findings and he will be informing the other place of his views when, at a later date, the report is debated. I commend the report to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Guilfoyle)  adjourned. 
-I should like to repeat the statements expressed in the first sentence of  Senator Cotton's  remarks. I believe that this is an historic occasion when we fill in another saga in the long history of the indecision, vacillation, cantankerousness, conservatism and inability of responsible people to make up their minds about a very important matter which concerns all of us and the future. There is no shadow of doubt in my mind that Capital Hill is the proper place for the construction of the new and permanent parliament house. I believe that as one travels around any city in Australia particularly Canberra, one sees that the houses on the top side of the street have a premium over those on the bottom side of the street, The roads that run into the circuit around Capital Hill are named after the Australian capital cities. If one looks from anywhere in Canberra, from Campbell to Black Mountain to Farrar, one can practially see the flag pole on top of Capital Hill, which is the dominating part of Canberra. It is the centre of Canberra. It is the apex of the triangle to which  Senator Wright  has referred. It has everything in its favour. Yet we have been arguing about this matter for half a century. It is ridiculous. It is a reflection on members of Parliament that it has taken so long to reach a decision on an issue such as the siting of the new and permanent parliament house. 
The other methods which have been used to decide this question have not been successful. It is the Jack Sprat system. One House comes to one decision and the other House, either out of pique or something else, reaches the opposite decision. It is a matter of passing the buck backwards and forwards. I believe it is disgraceful that we cannot make a decision. We could decide here and now in the Senate, if we wanted to do so, whether we should have a joint sitting or whether the new and permanent parliament house should be constructed on one or other of the sites. But whatever we do, for goodness sake let us make up our minds one way or the other. The proposal for a joint sitting of members of both Houses to try to reach a concensus is an alternative that has not been tried previously. This practice is adopted in many other areas. Why cannot we try it? We have virtually a joint sitting in the Senate when  Her  Majesty or the Governor-General delivers an address to the Parliament. There are no jealousies about that. 
I suppose that a lot of history is involved in this matter. We can have a joint meeting in the Senate. If every member of the Parliament has not made up his mind now about where the new and permanent parliament house should be sited, then he should not be in the Parliament. Members of this Parliament should be able to cast a vote for one site or the other. We have these alternative sites. Whatever happens, we should have the new and permanent parliament house on one site or the other. Do not let the matter go to the next saga where in another 15 or 20 years another set of grumpy old conservatives will want to defer a decision because of some technicality or some imagined constitutional difficulty. Let us be sensible people, make up our minds once and for all and get on with the job for which future generations in this country will praise us. The present Parliament House is a temporary building and it is tremendously expensive to maintain. Only this morning we discussed the expenditure of hundreds of thousands of dollars on this place, and that is only to put sucking plaster over a running sore. My plea is: Let us make up our minds and forget all the petty jealousies and the other things that are raised against having a joint sitting. Let us create a precedent, even if it is not followed again in the future. Let us do it this time and come to a decision like reasonable and responsible people representing the electors who would expect us to make a decision. I support the proposition that has been put up by  Senator Murphy  as a lead to enable us to discuss the matter. 
I rise to ask for leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debated adjourned. 
I point out to the Minister for the Media that the Minister for Fisheries in Tasmania has warned that the mercury content of the Derwent River is above the danger level and has asked that no fish should be consumed that have been taken from this river. In view of the increasing amount of unbiodegradable insecticides, weedicides and other offensive effluents that are finding their way into the rivers and the seas throughout and around the nation would the Minister, in conjunction with the Minister for the Environment and Conservation introduce a system of periodic warnings through the Australian Broadcasting Commission of pollution levels as a service to the public similar to weather reports? 
-The famous English statesman Gladstone referred to another statesman, Disraeli, as being intoxicated by the exuberance of his own verbosity. I think that the time that has been wasted in the Senate since the question was put that the Senate adjourn has been the result of exuberance of verbosity.  Senator Wright  seems to be obsessed by a pique and almost a jealousy of  Senator Murphy.  He showed this when he said that  Senator Murphy  had come into this place to adjourn the 
Senate. But this was an agreement that had been made between the leaders in the Senate. 
The agreement related to the adjournment of the Senate. 
In another place tonight the honourable senator's equivalent - 
I should like to speak for a few moments because I feel that this exercise this afternoon has been marked by a great degree of humbug, with honourable senators scoring cheap political points. I should like to put on record the names of the members of the Committee who were responsible for the purchase of this work of art. The Acquisitions Committee is comprised of  Mr James  Gleeson, art writer, critic and painter, of Sydney;  Mr Leonard  French, painter, of Melbourne;  Mr Clifford  Last, sculptor, of Melbourne;  Mr Fred  Williams, painter and graphic artist, of Melbourne; and the Director of the Gallery,  Mr James  Mollison. 
-Yes, I might mention that these distinguished gentlemen were appointed by the previous Government. I wish to inform the Senate of the backgrounds of the members of the Committee. I refer firstly to  Mr Fred  Williams. ' Who 's Who in Australia ' states: 
Williams, Frederick Ronald, Painter and Etcher; National Gallery Sens, (Melb.), Chelsea An Seh. (Lond.); exhibited in London, Switzerland, Asia, Prague, Cracow and Australia; represented in Tate Gallery London, and all Australian galleries; Rubinstein and Dyason; Travelling Scholar in Europe 1963-64; Georges, Wills and Wynne Prizes 1966; publication, Fred Williams Etchings 1968. 
The next person who has been condemned and degraded in this debate is  Mr James  Gleeson.  Who 's Who in Australia ' states: 
Gleeson, James Timothy, Artist, Author, Critic; ed. Gosford, East Syd. Tech. Coll., Syd. Teachers' Coll.; Lectr. An Syd. Teachers' Coll. 1945-46; studied Lond., Paris, Rome, 1947-49; publications, William Dobell 1964; Masterpieces of Australian Painting 1969. 
The next member to whom I wish to refer is  Mr Clifford  Last. He is one of the advisers who has been criticised in my view so wrongly this afternoon. The Committee members were advisers to this Government and advisers to the previous Government. For the purpose of the record I shall read Clifford Last's curriculum vitae.  Who 's Who in Australia ' states: 
Last, Clifford Frank, Sculptor, Member C 'wealth Art Advisory Board since 1970; ed. Barrow G.S. (Lanes), City Guilds An School (London), R.M.I.T. (Melb.), E. Syd. Tech., Lectr. Mercer House Teacher Training Coll.; CI. Member. Vic. Sculptors SOCY.; Vic. Univs. &amp; Schs. Examination Bd. Arts &amp; Crafts Standing Cttee. Outside Examiner R.M.I.T.; work in Nat. Art Collection, Canberra, Nat. Galls. Vic. &amp; Malaya, and an galls. Mildura, Ballarat, Newcastle, Launceston &amp; Castlemaine. 
Those are the backgrounds of the people who were commissioned or to whom authority was delegated on behalf of the Australian Government to build up our art collection. In art, as in other areas, man does not live by bread alone. 
You would like your 'pornshop' to be full of filthy pictures. I would not. I am saying that to have a collection of artistic works gives students, the artists of the future, an area for comparison. Access to the different styles of paintings is invaluable for teachers of the arts. It is not right for the Senate to spend all this time criticising these very capable people who have devoted a whole lifetime towards achieving and acquiring knowledge. These people are on a Committee that selects these various works of art for our galleries. Perhaps there are members of the Opposition who would be prepared to sell works of art, cash them in and buy a couple more FI 1 ls or some such thing. I should also like to mention that the  Chairman  of this Committee,  Mr Mollison,  was appointed by Opposition 's previous Leader,  Mr William  McMahon. With its background I would say that this Committee stands beyond reproach. 
The main reason I rose to speak was that the Government is being condemned. After all, neither  Mr Whitlam, Senator Murphy, Senator Douglas  McClelland,  Senator Mulvihill  nor any of us was responsible for choosing this painting but we are certainly supporters of the arts. If we give responsible people the job of choosing the various artists to be represented in our galleries then they are the people to do the job. When we get the tab for the paintings they choose it is our duty and responsibility to pick up that tab. Honourable senators opposite might want to say: Sack them all', but where will we finish? The people who comprise this Committee would possibly be among the 10 best representatives of their profession and of art in the country. Yet here we are spending 2 or 3 hours condemning them. None of us has ever seen the work 'Blue Poles'. None of us knows anything of the background of the artist. Perhaps most of us have too little appreciation of art. After all, the history of Australia has been one of hardship and of colonialism and we were not supposed to appreciate the arts. But we believe that this country has now reached an age of maturity and it should be able to get a little artistic fruit for the sideboard. We should be able to acquire collections similar to those acquired by practically every other civilised country in the world. One can go to the Art galleries and find wonderful paintings of the various artists. 
Of course, and Gruner is represented in most of our galleries. The same applies to Norman Lindsay. People in this country such as honourable gentlemen sitting opposite condemned Norman Lindsay because he was way out and avant garde, and he was called everything they could call him. They banned his books and covered up his paintings, but try to acquire a Norman Lindsay painting today. Perhaps in the 1930s one could buy a Norman Lindsay painting for twenty pounds, but today it would cost $ 10,000 or $ 1 5,000. 
I was most impressed with that  Senator Turnbull  said. I interjected when he asked whether anyone knew of a painting worth $1.3m. I saw a magnificient painting by Renoir in the Phillips Collection in Washington- Renoir is one of my favourite artists- and I inquired the price. The Phillips Collection paid $ 1.25m for this painting in 1 932, in the middle of the depression, when money was very scarce. If one multiplies that amount allowing for the inflation that has occurred in the United States, as it has here- it is not quite as bad here as it is there- one gets an indication that some of these works are priceless and invaluable, not only from the point of view of their material worth but also for the fact that they are examples of a period of history or of a different interpretation of art. Unless we equip our art galleries with the best that money can buy, we will have fewer examples of art and less material available for our future art students. It ill behoves this Senate to put on an exhibition such as this to score a cheap political point on the Government. The Government is simply standing by its Committee. The Committee made this decision and it is sending us the tab. If we are not welshers we will pay it. 
Motion (by  Senator Willesee)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Request for amendment negatived. 
Bill reported without requests; report adopted. 
-Five Bills have been debated cognately and have been canvassed fairly well. I think that the Senate could now proceed to vote on the second reading of these Bills. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Minerals and Energy. In view of the serious overseas fuel crisis necessitating drastic cuts in the use of hydrocarbon derivatives for power, heating and transport in the United Kingdom, Europe and the United States of America, would the Minister press for a higher priority for bringing into use at the earliest possible time the known reserves of the North West Shelf and the Cooper Basin which would include the early commencement of the national pipeline grid in order to avoid the possibility of the disruption to industrial and social life that is high and growing in other parts of the world? 
When  Senator Wood  spoke on behalf of the business people of Canberra it illustrated that a community the size of Canberra with a population which is estimated within the foreseeable future to reach 250,000 has to rely on  Senator Wood  to bring its business before the Senate. It is a contradiction, of course, of the attitude that the honourable senator took last night, when he found a very important matter before the Senate, that Canberra business people should have to rely on someone from Queensland to do this for them. I suppose he should be complimented for being so nationally minded- possibly centralist minded- that he would take up a matter in the interests of Canberra. The financing of sewerage in any city is very difficult. We always complain when we hear of a new rate being struck by the various local government bodies for the provision of this facility. As I see it, the railway systems seem to find a very effective and efficient way of financing their responsibilities for providing these amenities for the public by charging the people who use them. Therefore the cost is borne by those who use the facilities. On the other hand, for the residents of Canberra- although it is very desirable to see the galleries full of tourists, the buses coming in each day and the motel complexes being built here- to have to bear the cost of the toilet facilities in these major complexes is perhaps asking them to bear an unfair burden. The rate of $50 for an additional unit in a motel is in proportion to the usage, I should say, since an ordinary householder is now required under the ordinance to pay $25 a year as against $50 for every additional toilet unit. 

 Senator Wood complains about the problem of the Lakeside Hotel which has 274 rooms but which does not have full occupancy. The tariff at that hotel would exclude many people from staying there. Some of the top suites cost $120 a night. Since that hotel is able to ask such a tariff it must also provide a proportion of it towards paying for the facilities that are now being provided here by the community. The point I would like to make is that hotels and motels in Canberra which are getting the benefit of the tourist industry and the promotion of tourism actually pay much less in total rates. 
Sitting suspended from  1  p.m. to  2  p.m. 
Before lunch I made the point that hotels and motels in the Australian Capital Territory pay much less in total ratesthat is general, water and sewerage rates- than do those in other capital cities. Because of the nature of the development of Canberra as our national capital, there has been a very large expenditure of public money to provide facilities such as the lake, parklands, many very attractive and modern public buildings and structures such as the water jet, and the carillion and the lighting of buildings at night. Perhaps I should have given prioity to Parliament House itself, which is becoming a Mecca for nearly all Australian people and particularly for children who feel that it is part of their education to come to Canberra. 
In this situation, the hotel and motel industry has proliferated in Canberra. We have such hotels as the Lakeside International Hotel with 250-odd units and charging tariffs up to $100 a night. With complexes such as the one I have mentioned and others, the sewerage system must provide for the potential use. Of course, the numbers of residents at particular times fluctuate. The hotels have peak periods and less busy periods, but the facilities have to be provided to service the potential of a motel or hotel. Naturally, the cost is larger because of the larger size. We can imagine the sort of outcry we would have from the proprietors, the licence holders and lessees of these organisations if the National Capital Development Commission had not provided these facilities during the construction of the hotels. The expenditure of a very large amount of money is involved.  Senator Wood  mentioned that the use of water in these facilities contributes to the cost of the sewerage. This is not completely correct because there is no charge for water in the sewerage accounts. This is included in the water accounts. 
It is my view, and I believe it is one that can be sustained, that the tourist industry should have to pay its way in the form of paying charges which accrue as a result of the development of these big accommodation complexes in the Australian Capital Territory. I think it is fair to ask why the industry should not contribute. I wonder whether the hotels and motels charge a cheaper tariff as the result of their low total rates. I refer now to Brisbane, which is the capital city of  Senator Wood  's home State. He did not draw our attention to the charges that apply there, but I will. Whereas  Senator Wood  complained that the fees in the Australian Capital Territory had been increased from $15 a unit to $25 for the first unit and $50 for every additional unit, in Brisbane the charges are $52 for each of the first to seventh unit, $65 for each of the eighth to eleventh unit and $78 for the twelfth and each additional unit. This comparison makes it quite obvious that the charges that are being made under this ordinance are quite reasonable. Of course, they add to the cost of accommodation. I think we must relate the charges which apply in hotels in Canberra to charges which apply elsewhere. Rate on a room or unit at the Lakeside International Hotel is an average of $98, whereas the rates on the Wentworth Hotel in Sydney is $594 for a unit. 
This is per unit per year. It is an indication of how these charges have escalated. 
I saw a set of figures. I should like to have had them available, but evidently the officer who was advising earlier misunderstood the time of resumption of the Senate. He was to give them to me. I will make a point of placing them on the table of the Senate when I receive them. 
I will supply the documentation for honourable senators. I have asked that the figures be made available to me. The Wentworth Hotel in Sydney pays rates of $594 a year per room or unit. The Southern Cross Hotel in Melbourne pays rates of $437 a year per room. The Lakeside International Hotel in Canberra pays $98 a year. So, on that comparison the Australian Capital Territory hotels are very well catered for by the local authorities. 
The honourable senator must remember that, although the population in the Australian Capital Territory is in excess of 150,000, the tourist population exceeds that figure. I have heard estimates that more than 300,000 tourists come to Canberra, and a proportion of those tourists would seek hotel or motel accommodation and would use the facilities which are available. 
If we alter the present charges to the hotels and motels, someone still has to pay the bill. It will mean that the people who reside in the Australian Capital Territory will be asked to pay more for their own facilities. I also have some figures which relate to the Menzies Hotel in Sydney. The Menzies Hotel pays $ 1 ,0 14 per room in rates. 
Per room or unit. 
I have quoted the total annual rates- that is, the water, sewerage and general rates- paid by hotels or motels in Canberra. The rates I have quoted are the charges paid per room or unit, and such charges are cheaper in Canberra by far. 
-Room or unit, yes. One can have an en suite room or one can have a room which does not have facilities so that one has to toddle down the passageway. 
What about what? 
The honourable senator would be a specialist in larders because his head is made of lard. 
These statistics are provided in the report which has been submitted by the National Capital Development Commission on the rates charged in Canberra. The report makes comparisons with the rates charged to hotels and motels in other cities. 
I said that I would, and I certainly will table the document. But I want to get on record comparisons of the rates charged at certain hotels. The Menzies Hotel in Sydney pays $1,014 total annual rates, the Park Royal in Adelaide pays $257, and the Canberra Rex in Canberra pays $ 124. 

 Senator O'BYRNE They are the total annual rates, yes. So if we compare the $594 paid by the Wentworth Hotel in Sydney with the $98 paid by the Lakeside Hotel in Canberra, and if we compare the $1,014 paid by the Menzies Hotel in Sydney with the $124 paid by the Canberra Rex, we can see that the tourist industry in Canberra is being very well served by the Commonwealth, by the Commission and by the people of Canberra generally. I would like to make another point. I know that  Senator Wood  has spent a lifetime promoting the tourist industry. I want to compliment him on the work that he has done. I also want to encourage the development of the tourist industry in Canberra because, as I said before, Canberra is a mecca for Australians, and the growing numbers of people that visit here annually should be properly catered for. On the other hand, we have an obligation to see that the charges for these services are borne with equity. If the numbers of people using these facilities are such that the cost of installation and other servicing charges require the imposition of rates of this level, we should see that these charges are implemented. The motion for the disallowance of this ordinance is a matter for the Senate to decide. I believe for reasons of equity and fairness that these charges should be maintained. 
I think that  Senator Gietzelt  has raised some matters which are not being properly attended to in New South Wales but which are matters of national importance. I refer to an article in today's 'Daily Telgraph', Thursday, 15 November. Under the heading 'Doormen Sacked In Kings Cross Police ' ' Blitz ' ' ', the article states: 
At least 6 doormen at Kings Cross night clubs have been sacked following a police blitz on the area. 
The sackings came after detectives from the 21st division visited owners of all clubs in the area to check employees. 
This follows a statement from the Police Commissioner,  Mr Hansen,  in which he threatened to 'close the Cross' in a crackdown on violence. 
The detectives are believed to have warned club proprietors to get rid of any doorman with a criminal record. 
One employee said the detectives asked for a list of all club employees so that their criminal records could be checked. 
He said more sackings were certain in the near future. 
The doorman said that as a result of the police blitz, one well known strip club seemed certain to close. 
I have never seen so many police in such a small area in my life ', the doorman said. 
It looks like they're fair dinkum this time'. 
Before the crackdown, a man known to his colleagues as  'Mr Sin'  - 
That is  Mr Sin,  not  Mr South-  had employed at least 16 standover men as bouncers in clubs with which he is connected in Kings Cross. 
No,  Mr Sin. 
-He who is without sin shall cast the first stone. The article continues: 
Last night, a well known identity in the area said these  heavies ' were responsible for several recent bashings. 
He said the bouncers were so well armed 'that they could take on a small army'. 

 Mr Sin' has employed a chief bouncer who has at least one shooting to his credit. 
This bloke just goes from club to club to make sure everything is quite', the informant said. 
At least 16 doormen could be called to any spot at the Cross within 2 minutes if required by the 'overlord' to handle a situation. 
It is to illustrate that I had experience of the situation which exists in New South Wales, with corruption and Mafialike activities. (Quorum formed). I rose simply to commend  Senator Gietzelt  for drawing attention to the fact that the Premier of New South Wales and previous State Attorneys-General have been issuing pistol licences to these crooks and spivs who have been running Kings Cross and Sydney for so long. I shall relate a personal experience which I had. One night I was at a reception with my brother and his family. We looked down into one of these night clubs. A man pointed a revolver at me, through the window, where we were standing. We were watching the type of racket which was going on. In these clandestine clubs - 
-Baccarat and all types of illegal gambling. There could have been a little bit of stripping going on. One honourable senator has recently become connected with this art, through the family. Nevertheless, the point I make is that New South Wales is becoming as corrupt as New York. The bashings and the muggings will continue because the Government in New South Wales has issued licences to these crooks who run Kings Cross and areas of Sydney. I believe that if we cannot get some satisfaction through the New South Wales authorities we should raise this matter because it is of national importance. To think that Australia, with all its great history, is being reduced to this level through the New South Wales example of being a refuge for gangsters, crooks, doublecrossers and these people whose activities have been reported in the Press. It is time there was a good clean-up in New South Wales at the State level, at the Premier level and at the AttorneyGeneral level. They are closing their eyes to these activities. There is no shadow of doubt about that. Under the surface there is widespread corruption and that type of thing in New South Wales. We have heard the histrionics of  Senator Greenwood  about how terrible it is to raise these matters in the Senate. Where can they be raised if they are not raised here? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. I refer the Minister to news reports on papers delivered at the recent conference of the Ergonomics Society of Australia and New Zealand which claimed that measurements of carbon monoxide in Sydney show that the recommended safe limits have been exceeded and that noise from transport affects more people for more time than noise from any other source. In view of the fact that the Government is attempting to tackle the massive problems associated with road safety, will the Minister see whether something can be done to minimise the obvious health hazards derived from our national transport system? 
I direct a question to the Minister for the Media. As it is the Labor Government's policy and the policy of the Minister's Department to ensure not only a greater number of Australian film productions but also to secure an improvement in the quality of television programs, will he give consideration to establishing a research section to survey in depth what type of programs people want to watch and to what extent people are enjoying what they watch? 
My question which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation follows the question asked by 

 Senator Rae relating to the Flinders Island aerodrome at Whitemark. This matter has been the subject of discussion in Tasmania. I ask the Minister whether he will ask his colleague, the Minister for Civil Aviation, to give the people of Flinders Island an assurance that there will be no difference in the services provided at the aerodrome. Will he ask his colleague to assure the people that weather reports, very high frequency communications, and safety and maintenance services will be maintained, that the radio navigation group will remain there, and that last week when the incident referred to by  Senator Rae  took place the Department of Civil Aviation aerodrome control officer was present at Whitemark to phase in the new system which will operate in the future? 
-The Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Withers)  has used very extravagant language, but I believe that the people of Australia and the Senate would be grateful if the truth were presented.  Senator Withers  said that  Senator Murphy  had lopped off 3 hours 45 minutes sitting time per week. I have before me the sitting times of committees. I remind  Senator Withers  that a total of 63 hours in the last 2 months has been spent on committee work. There has been a departure from the traditional way of handling the Estimates. They were normally debated in the Committee of the Whole. Now the various Estimates Committees sit in different rooms on this side of Parliament House. I point out that Estimates Committee A sat for 15 hours 1 1 minutes, mostly on Mondays and Tuesday and Thursday evenings. That time should be added to the sitting hours of the Senate. When  Senator 
Withers said that we lopped off 3 hours 45 minutes per week he was actually giving false and maliciously misleading information because the proceedings are being broadcast. We have used up time that normally is devoted to the sitting of the Senate, but in a slightly different form- that is, in the sittings of the committees. 
I have the figures for Estimates Committee B. It sat 5 hours on a Tuesday night after the Senate rose at its normal time. Estimates Committee C sat on Tuesday and Thursday nights on 4 occasions, and sat 13 hours 55 minutes. Estimates Committee D sat on 2 occasions, and sat 6 hours 7 minutes. Estimates Committee E sat 10 hours 8 minutes. Estimates Committee F sat 11 hours 49 minutes up until last night when a special Committee meeting was held. It lasted for about 2 hours. It was brought about by filibustering and steamrolling by members of the Committee who asked repetitive questions to a nauseating extent. 
No. 
I was in the chamber, and I heard the nauseating repetition for the purpose of keeping important officers of the Public Service here and for the purpose of trying to score political points off the Government. 
I think that the hours referred to in the motion are reasonable hours for us to sit. We are extending the hours. If necessary, we have the flexibility to sit on Mondays and Fridays in the next 3 weeks. A lot of honourable senators have commitments in their home cities and their home States. Many of them even like to see their families occasionally during the parliamentary sittings. If we can get on with the business and if  Senator Withers  thinks he can prove that he is not talking double talk, we will put him to the test and see whether we can get through some of the non-controversial parts of the legislative program and then perhaps spend extra time on the controversial issues. 
I appeal to the Senate to look at the situation as it exists. The people of this country have given us a mandate to introduce legislation. That mandate may have ended, in the minds of honourable senators opposite, but it remains as between the Government and the people. The Senate has its function, but it certainly has no right to frustrate the mandate that the people gave the Government. In due course the Opposition will be brought to book. It will have to give an account of its stewardship. The people of Australia will make their decision. In the meantime it is our job to try to adjust this country to the needs of our time. It has been asleep, dormant and retrogressive for 23 years. It is about time we received some co-operation from Opposition senators in the implementation of our progressive policies. I support this motion to extend the sitting hours. I think the hours are sensible and I hope we can get on with the job of implementing our very important policies for the advancement and betterment of Australia. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. By way of preface I point out that 2 years ago the then Australian Government Mission to the United Nations supported a resolution deferring discussion of the unification of North and South Korea by the method of waiting for a report from the International Red Cross then in Korea. As information on the outcome of the exercise carried out by the International Red Cross does not seem to have been publicised, can the Minister give an indication of any progress in this very important matter of the reunification of Korea? 
I associate myself with the motion of condolence on the death of John Johnstone Dedman. I am the only senator in this place today who was a contemporary of John Dedman when he was in the Parliament. I would like to pay a tribute to the dedicated service that he gave to his fellow men and to the nation, and to express my very deep sympathy to his widow and his family. John Dedman was one of the rare people in Australian public life. He was a man with very high ideals who had the opportunity to implement them. In his position as Minister for War Organisation of Industry he had to cut across the traditional Australian attitude towards regimentation. During war time, with its pressures and with the enemy at our very gates, the Australian as a rule felt that he wanted to carry on his ordinary life as much as possible and John Dedman as the Minister had the odious task of arranging for people to do the jobs which were most effective and would do the most good for our country in war time. 
On my return from the war I joined his department of Post-war Reconstruction and was able there to get first hand knowledge of the tenacity and singleness of purpose of John Dedman when he had to turn around on an opposite tack and bring back into civilian life as smoothly as possible the 750,000 people who had been engaged in the armed forces and unwind the war effort that had built up and redirect that effort in peace time. This was an amazing task and, having been associated with it as a district officer of the Department of Post-war Reconstruction in Tasmania, I realised the great thought that had gone into the plan for the rehabilitation of people in industry. The whole concept of apprenticeship, the organisation of war service land settlement, war service homes and the various schemes that were devised very smoothly brought people out of the armed services back into civilian life. I was also associated with John Dedman as a foundation member of the interim council of the Australian National University. I was appointed by John Dedman to that office and held that office until 1949 when I was succeeded by  Senator Dame  Dorothy Tangney, who had a university degree. It was thought at the time that it was very desirable to have a woman representative on the interim council. 
However, I saw some of the scope of vision of John Dedman when he wanted to reverse the brain drain that had gone on for so long. Some of our most notable men had gone overseas and he saw the opportunity to bring them back to Australiamen such as  Sir Howard  Florey, Professor Stanner and  Sir Marc  Oliphant. Great men like these were brought back to Australia and were able to contribute to the cultural and intellectual life of this country. I would like to place on record my appreciation of the great service rendered by John Dedman to this country and his fellow men.  His  great idealism and his rapport with the ordinary people of this country are something for which he will always be remembered. I pay tribute to his great work and express my sympathy to his widow and family. 
-The subject matter of the debate before the Senate is the Seas and Submerged Lands Bill 1973 (No. 2). But to listen to what has been said by honourable senators opposite one would think that we were having a panegyric or a homily on local government and swimming and boating facilities in the inland waters of this nation. When  Senator Durack  rose to speak he said that we had to make up our minds and decide whether we should support or oppose this measure. Having heard  Senator Durack  's speech I would say that his mind was made up before he ever stood on his feet.  His  mind was closed on the subject when he came into the Senate today. The honourable senator is representing in this Parliament, or claiming to, people whose minds are also closed to the facts of life that exist today. The honourable senator quoted that the policy of the Liberal Party was to support a vital- 
This is so. Everything is negative as far as the Liberal Party is concerned. Its objective is to frustrate the will of the people which was expressed on 2 December last year. This is the last rearguard action by the remnant and the rump of the regime which is still hanging on here by the skin of its teeth in order to frustrate the will of the people. 
The  ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT  (Senator Wood)-  Order! I do not think that this has anything to do with the Bill before the Senate. 
I am answering what was said by the previous  speaker, Senator Durack.  I will quote what he said. He said that these matters should be decided either by cooperative arrangements between the State and Federal authorities or by amending the Constitution. What hypocrisy this is, because whatever we put up in regard to amending the Constitution we get the same build-up of fear and small mindedness. The little Australians trot out of their holes in the woodwork and say: 'You cannot do it because the sovereignty of the States might be abrogated '. This negative approach is nauseating. 
The honourable senator spoke of the High Court and said that it probably would take some years to fully resolve the ambit of this legislation. Of course, this is the very purpose of the opposition that has been put up by  Senator Durack.  The Opposition does not want this Government to get on with the job of developing our natural resources and off-shore resources. I might remind the honourable senator also that this legislation is designed to proceed in view of the technique which has been developed over recent years and opens up a new dimension in winning resources from the seabed. This involves the use of drilling and dredging facilities that have never been incorporated into State mining codes. We have to get on with the job of finding out how we can best develop these resources. But we are being faced with all of these side issues. We have to contend with all of these red herrings that have been raised about people not being able to fish or to sunbathe or about someone who wants to build a jetty. One would think that members of the Opposition were at a Sunday school picnic instead of being responsible to members of the national Parliament talking about matters which the best brains in the world are trying to solve. At the present time some of the greatest international jurists are working out the details of the law of the sea. Does  Senator Durack  mean to tell me that they are going to consult people such as him or some of the people in the State governments who could not run a fowl house, let alone administer the law of the sea from their little State enclaves? 
This is a national and international problem that should be dealt with by men of vision who have the interests of the nation and our international agreements at heart. The honourable senator said that we would be seeking to solve by litigation matters that could not be solved by the process of arrangements with the States. This is the amazing part about it. In April 1970 representatives of  Senator Durack  's Government of the time, with a lot of support, introduced legislation similar to the Bill now before us. Representatives of that Government expressed the view that Australia's national and international interests would be best served if the legal position of the Australian continental shelf was resolved. We saw the frustration of this objective and a running away from the issues. Pressures were applied by the State governments and eventually the Commonwealth Government of the day dropped the whole subject. But at one time the Government which  Senator Durack  supported was in favour of this legislation. That Government saw the wider issues that are involved. But it is quite easy to understand the pressures that would have been placed on the then Government by people who were involved in selling us the other, what one could nearly call, scandalous arrangement. 
I refer to the off-shore petroleum resources legislation. The Bureau of Mineral Resources and other Commonwealth instrumentalities had done the groundwork and had invited the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd to come in. But at that time  Mr Weeks,  who is at present in Australia and who is a noted authority on oil exploration, said: 'Of course you have all the indications there. I have international knowledge of where oil is likely to be obtained'. He said virtually: Dig here'. 
The great resources of Bass Strait were then opened up partly to an Australian company, but the international oil companies also had a foot in the door. This started off the pattern by which States such as Tasmania, South Australia and Queensland were all conned into this agreement which was one-sided and directed into the hands of the international oil monopolists. If honourable senators look at the licences of the vast offshore areas of Australia they will find that only a handful of multi-national oil companies hold all these licences. The States Mines Departments knew nothing about these resources; this was never written into their mining codes. Thank goodness there was provision for relinquishment, but until the present Minister came to office and the Bureau of Mineral Resources and other people put their advice clearly before the Government, the ground work had been laid for the working of all sorts of rackets in lease extensions, farm-outs and the like. Thank goodness the new Government has had a good look at this and we may see a much more rapid development of our off-shore oil resources. This legislation deals with the resources of the sea bed and to my mind there should be no doubt at all about the exclusive right of the Australian Government to control these resources off the coastline of Australia from low water mark to the outer limits of the continental shelf. There should be no doubt whatever about it. It is ridiculous for the States to claim sovereignty over these areas on the slim pretext that Commonwealth control would cut across their sovereign rights and they would not be able to build a jetty or to fish offshore. These protests are put up by the Opposition merely to confuse the issue. As I mentioned before, the individual States would be completely at a loss; they would be unable to send delegates to the international conference on the law of the sea. This has to be done on a national level. The same thing applies to. the determining of the width of the territorial sea. Looking back and checking up on the origin of the mythical 3-mile limit, I understand that a cannon ball could travel about 3 miles. 
Yes; and that is not the VFL, is it? There are other leagues besides that. This was a distance of 3 leagues from the coastline. That meant that any enemy or intruder could be held at bay by cannon balls that could be fired that far. Therefore that established our territorial right of the 3-mile limit. This indicates the mentality of the people who are opposing a new look in this day and age when we can send objects into the outer atmosphere and into outer space, and electronic devices and the like can make discoveries far down in the depths of the earth. Man is starting to come to grips with his environment, yet people still want to think as their forebears did that the earth is flat. Some of them have ideas about as flat as that theory. What authority has a State for negotiating boundaries with adjoining countries? We face a very important national problem to the north of Australia in the new proposed independent Papua New Guinea. What are they going to call the new independent State- Pangini, or something like that? We are going to nave to make agreements with that new country. I do not know whether  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  the Premier of Queensland - 
I do not know whether  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  will want to declare war, though he has virtually declared war according to a message that he is sending the  President  at the present time. 
-He wants to declare war, but on the other hand I notice that he called for Commonwealth assistance when the 'Oceanic Grandeur' spilled oil, polluting the waters off the Queensland coast and destroying the marine life of this mangificent phenomenon, the Barrier Reef. It was the Commonwealth to which the Queensland Premier and his colleagues ran for assistance. I am certain that the Queenslanders were very glad of the protection of the Australian Military Forces when in the 1939-1945 period the Japanese were a little distance across the sea in Papua New Guinea. This shows that the days of State sovereignty in many matters has gone by the board and that there is now a need for nationally organised efforts. 
In these areas I have outlined the States have not challenged the rights of the Australian Government about the law of the sea and arrangements for territorial boundaries. What has to happen now is that the Commonwealth would have to seek the permission of the States to ratify these agreements. This, to me, is completely ridiculous and ludicrous. The natural resources of the sea bed are becoming more and more important to our economy. Many technological advances have been made overseas. As I mentioned before, the new techniques are developing to such an extent that provision must be made for our resources to be developed in an orderly way by the Australian Government at a national level. Some 10 to 15 years ago the Americans were drilling off the coast of the United States only to a shallow depth, in some 100, 200 or 300 feet of water, but techniques have improved so much in recent years that even off the Australian coast some of our drilling ships are capable of drilling in a depth of 1 500 feet of water. In other experiments drilling has gone down 2, 3 or 4 miles into the bowels of the earth. The more sophisticated techniques for off-shore drilling and dredging become, the more it will be necessary for us to have a proper and unchallengeable authority to explore and exploit these resources for the benefit of the nation. 
There are other important matters on which I have touched with regard to conservation of our resources. We have had illustrated only in the last few weeks the efficacy and great substance in the policy of this Government with regard to the conservation of our oil and gas resources. It was announced in this morning's paper that we have about 8 years reserves of these hydrocarbons. This means that at least to a great extent we can withstand the political pressures that can be exercised here because of the fact that we have not allowed our resources to be exported to other countries. The long range plan of conservation of our resources for domestic requirements and, most importantly, defence requirements is essential. It is vital that we have an overall national policy on the conservation of our oil and gas resources. The same thing will inevitably apply to our natural seabed mineral resources. 
Of course we could do it with export controls but the position is that the whole matter has never been settled. Why should we perpetuate this area of grey where the old traditional sovereign rights of the States come into confrontation with the expanding responsibilities of a nation? We cannot afford the luxury of allowing this indecision to continue. We should come to grips with it and if the States are not prepared to cede this power to the Commonwealth we should allow the matter to go to the courts to be settled there. After all, that is the last resort. But we come up against the type of mentality shown by people who say they will not allow the Commonwealth to go into their States. This is similar to the message we had delivered in the Senate today. It is an illustration of the fascist mentality of people who are so upset that the people would decide to put into power a Government that was not the one that had been in power for so long and which had allowed so much of the potential of this country to remain undeveloped and stagnant. 
In the last 70 years the only times when governments of a non-Liberal or nonconservative nature have been in power have been in periods of crisis- in the first World War, in the depression years of the 1930s and during the 1939-45 war period up till the rehabilitation era was over- and during the other periods there had been conservative governments in power here. Honourable senators opposite cannot understand why they are not in power when there is not a crisis. Of course, they are trying to generate a crisis. They are crying out: 'There is going to be a depression, there will be shortages'. We tried to introduce tariff reductions and they said it would not work. We revalued the dollar and they said that would not work. We said we would ask the States to co-operate in giving us the power to control prices and they said it would not work; they could not allow that to happen. We said that we would go to the people by way of a referendum on prices and they said that would not work; they would not have it. I wish the public knew of the carping hypocrisy of these people whose attitude is so negative. If there is anything progressive to be done they try to spread fear and that is why  Senator Durack  said: If you give the Commonwealth power it will stop you swimming and will not allow your boat to come into the jetty'. How puerile that is. Our case is a clear one. We believe this matter has to be grappled with and it is one which we have put up to the Parliament before. It was refused then and the proposals were frustrated by the Senate. It has been taken back to the House of Representatives and we are now putting the Bill up again here. We will now be able to go to the people of Australia and give them an account of our stewardship. Time is on our side; history is on our side. The development and conservation of our oil resources have proved conclusively that  Mr Connor,  rather than being the coal miner from Wollongong, will go down in history as a greater statesman than any of the honourable senators opposite who have criticised him. 
Of course. They are suffering from future shock. They are unable to adapt themselves to the rapidity of change. In the days that they are attuned to, things moved generation by generation, if that. Now, of course, we see movement in every field of human activity. Everywhere there are changes. These are occurring even at monthly intervals let alone 6 monthly or yearly intervals. These changes are occurring in every sphere but still the conservatives say: ' We will put our blinkers on. We do not want to admit to these changes. We want to hold on to whatever we had and if we are negative enough the people who are suffering from this same shock will listen'. After all, a lot of people are suffering from this same shock. Old people find it hard to adapt to the changing times.  Senator Hannan  said the other day: 'Why can't we stop the metric system'. We had people who wanted to stop - 
Of course it is. They wanted to stop the orbiting in space and the transmission of television signals from satellites and things like that because they feared them. Some people say that they will upset the balance of nature and we will have earthquakes. People come to my place, put their foot in the door and say that Armageddon is going to come. They are hoping it will because the world is changing fast. They think they can pull the cord, stop the world and get off, but they cannot. There are a lot of people who want to get on- on with the job. I am illustrating our point of view. We want to get on with the job and show members of the Opposition that ours is a progressive and far-sighted policy which has the interests of the nation at hean. That is why we have this legislation here and if it is defeated we will put the matter before the electors of this country and they will make the final decision. I hope their decision will be a good lesson to those who are trying to put brakes on the progress and development of our country. 
Would the Minister for the Media have an investigation made into the reasons why radio and television stations, including those of the Australian Broadcasting Commission, gave wide publicity on the night of the New South Wales election to reports that according to their computer calculations there was a 10 per cent to 11 per cent swing against the Australian Labor Party and that it would lose up to 9 seats? Has the Minister seen the latest results which show that the Australian Labor Party will be returned with the same number of seats as it held prior to the elections despite the cynical gerrymander of New South Wales electorates by the Askin Government? Would the Minister have a check made to ascertain whether Australian Broadcasting Commission and other political commentators could be more realistic in their estimates of swings? 

 Senator DOUGLAS McCLELLANDFirstly, I am aware that the Labor Party in New South Wales will be returned, as I understand it, with the same number of seats in the new Parliament as it had in the previous Parliament as a result of  Mr Don  Day being returned as the State member for Casino at the election that was held on 1 7 November. I think that anyone who saw the results as they came through on that evening- I saw them on the Australian Broadcasting Commission program- will agree that commentators had some difficulty in estimating with reasonable accuracy the type of swing that was in evidence. I know that early in the piece someone was saying that there was likely to be a swing of 10 per cent against the Labor Party and that as the night progressed the evidence of the swing diminished considerably. I have had some inquiries made into this and I am given to understand that one of the reasons for this was the slowness with which the figures came into the central tally room. Apparently the reason for the slowness of the receipt of the figures by comparison with the rate of receipt at Federal elections is that for Federal elections full-time electoral officers are engaged in counting the votes whereas for the New South Wales State elections part-time electoral officers are engaged. Therefore I do not suppose that they could be considered to be nearly as efficient as are full-time electoral officers. That is as much as I can tell the honourable senator. I understand that, in the main, that is the reason for the slow counting of the returns as they came in. 
-My question is directed to the  Chairman  of the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange. On 16 October and again on 18 October I asked  Senator Rae,  as  Chairman  of the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange, when the report of that Committee would be tabled. In his answer to me he said that the Committee had been unable to proceed with its sittings from the prorogation of the Parliament in November 1972 until the Committee was reconstituted in April. I ask: Did not the constitution of the Select Committee make provision for it to continue sitting during time of prorogation of the Parliament until the reconstitution of the Committee? Will the report be presented before the Senate rises this year? What delays are now occurring? Will the report ever be presented? 
By way of preface to my question, which I address to the Minister for the Media, I would like to point out that because of construction work involved in the colour television conversion program of the Australian Broadcasting Commission in Hobart, the available space has been reduced considerably and accommodation difficulties are being experienced by the staff. In view of the intention to appoint additional staff this financial year as the Commission develops its programming arrangements, will the Minister ask the Commission to look at this accommodation matter as one of urgency in order to ensure that reasonable working conditions are available to the staff of the ABC in Hobart? 
-Could I have it clarified whether the report of the Joint Committee on Prices is properly before the Senate and on the notice paper? 
Motion (by  Senator Gietzelt)  agreed to: 
That the adjourned debate be made an order of the day for the next day of sitting. 
-The measures before the Senate are of very great interest to most people throughout the country. Owing to the need of" the Senate to proceed with other business, I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
Motion (by  Senator Cavanagh)  proposed: 
That the resumption of the debate be made an order of the day for the next day of sitting. 
-My question is directed to the  Chairman  of the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange. I refer to the 'Australian' of 1 1 December 1973, which states: 
The Senate Select Committee on Securities will make a statement to Parliament this week about its long delayed report. 
I should like to ask through you,  Mr President,  whether the  Chairman  of the Committee could elaborate on this matter any further. 
-The Health Insurance Bill 1973 which is before us is one of the most important measures that have been introduced by this Government. The Government was given a mandate to introduce this legislation because of the great need that exists throughout Australia for such a scheme. The figures quoted by  Senator Rae  mean that at least one million people throughout Australia are not covered under the existing so-called health scheme.  Senator Rae  said that the Government proposes to do away with the private health insurance scheme. However, I would like to remind  Senator Rae  and other honourable senators opposite, as well as members of the Australian Medical Association and other medical people, particularly those associated with the current health scheme, that the Commonwealth Government has to pay more than $300m a year to keep the private scheme going. 
I have here some of the propaganda that is being pushed out by the organisations that have a vested interest in the perpetuation of the current scheme. It shows the great hypocrisy of so many of these so-called ethical people who are barraging private patients with propaganda in their surgeries. The purpose of this piece of propaganda is to give 13 reasons why the women of this community should say no to the Government's proposed health scheme. It contains a whole pack of half truths which verge on lies. Medical practitioners have been trying to push this propaganda, spreading fear and scare amongst the people. They say that the Government's scheme will cost more. They know very well that for the greatest proportion of people in the community it will cost less and, as I mentioned, the community has been paying $300m to the present scheme over a long period of time- since the scheme was introduced. But that has never been mentioned in the propaganda. Someone has to finance the present scheme, and if the Commonwealth were to withdraw the assistance that it has been giving the present scheme would be impossible to administer and to finance. I would like the people of Australia to know this quite clearly. 
The first point that is made in this propaganda which gives 13 reasons why you should say no to the scheme is as follows: 
The Federal Government's scheme to replace voluntary health insurance with a compulsory, tax-financed scheme is a creation of men- not doctors, mind you, but male academics and economists. 
This document was published by the Voluntary Health Insurance Association of Australia. I would like to know whether the doctors themselves might have a vested interest and a financial interest in this scheme. But the point is that they are exhibiting themselves- I do not know whether they are discriminating against themselves as being males- as chauvinists and probably prigs. But I do not see how they can differentiate before themselves and male academics and economists. The publication says that the Government's health scheme will cost the family more. But most Australians will pay less. That is the fact of the matter, despite all the propaganda put out by the doctors. Most Australians will pay ess for health insurance under the new scheme. I want to stress the untruths that have been pushed out to the public of Australia. Of course, the doctors are in a very privileged position because they have had university training. Many of them in the earlier day of this campaign were saying: Look at the money we have spent on our training'. But they were trained at universities which are financed by the taxpayers. Many of the privileges that they get in the community are subsidised. 
Of course. If we look at those who received scholarships that are financed by the taxpayers, many of whom are humble working people paying a proportion of their incomes towards these scholarships- possibly they pay a higher proportion than the fat cats and the tall poppies- we will probably find that many people in the medical profession have been subsidised by them. I would like to mention in passing also that in my view a section of the medical profession has been most unethical, because 40 per cent of the doctors of Australia are working for government instrumentalities; they are working for the Australian Government, for State governments and for local government authorities. Yet the pressure and the emphasis has been on this grim hand of socialism that will be placed on the doctors if they become involved in a scheme such as this. 
I am being quite candid when I say that many of the agitators are those people who have left the national health scheme in England. A propagandist usually has some sort of an ersatz Oxford accent or a primed up Yorkshire accent. Such a person has come out to Australia because he realises that there is a wonderful harvest to reap here, with the wide spectrum in which they can work. Of course, we have in Australia also this very substantial subsidy which is paid by the Commonwealth Government to the private scheme. But the levy to be imposed under the new scheme is based on capacity to pay, which means that it is based on one's taxable income after allowance has been made for children and educational medical and other expenses. This will mean that the new scheme will be cheaper for three out of four families. These are the facts. Yet all the propaganda that has been pushed out is a broad generalisation. 
Three out of four families will be better off under our scheme, including families in which there is a working wife. The scheme will be cheaper for seven out of ten single people. The Government applies the same principle to such a basic thing as health as it applies to education. We have been trying to tell the people of Australia, particularly honourable senators opposite, that we look on education as being the right of every Australian citizen, of every Australian child, from the kindergarten right through to university. What is more noble an ambition than to see one's children properly educated. One does not have to use much imagination to apply our policy in relation to education to health. What is more important than having an Australia-wide health scheme which is available to everyone. The scheme is being opposed but on the basis of  Senator Rae's  figures one million people or more- possibly many more- are not covered by the present scheme. He reduced the proportion to 87 per cent. This propaganda put out by the Voluntary Health Insurance Association uses the words: 'If you are a working wife', in an effort to scare the housewives in the home. There is no doubt that a tremendously delicate relationship exists between a doctor and his patient. This is particularly so in the case of the housewife. But how can a doctor maintain that trust which a woman patient has in him when out of the doctor's own sponsorship comes these half truths and this scare campaign that has been spread around the country over the last two or three months? 
The propaganda sheet states that it will be harder to obtain a hospital bed. I would like to remind honourable senators opposite, particularly some of those who have been very vocal in advancing this scare campaign, that of all the Opposition to the Government's proposal that relating to hospital care reveals the greatest hypocrisy and the most naked protection of privilege and vested interest. The Government's proposals are clear and unequivocal. They ensure that every Australian will be free to choose treatment without charge in a public hospital, including all necessary medical treatment by doctors appointed to the hospital staff. Can anyone contradict that? No one can contradict it because honourable senators opposite and those who have been briefing them know very well that that is the truth. The Government is confident that doctors of the highest reputation and competence will seek appointment to both the full time staffs and the visiting staffs of hospitals and that the treatment of patients who choose this care will be of the highest quality. The anachronistic honorary system will be replaced by salaries, sessional fees or contract payments at rates ranging over $30,000 a year for senior specialists. At the same time the Government's program allows any patient to choose between being a private patient in either a public hospital or a private hospital and to be provided with full medical benefits against the fees of doctors treating him as a private patient. Can anyone contradict that? Yet the tenor of the propaganda has been to try to contradict that. 
In public hospitals, private patients will be liable for fees of $ 1 5 a day in intermediate wards and $22 a day in single rooms. To those who immediately raise to cry of 'discrimination', let me point out that similar differentials now exist in public hospital charges and that these will grow even larger in the future. In Victoria present charges are $20 a day in public wards, $30 a day in intermediate wards and $40 a day in private wards, giving an overall differential of $20 a day. For patients in private hospitals, the Health Insurance Commission will pay $16 a bed-day direct to the hospital, leaving patients to meet amounts equivalent on average to those charged for similar accommodation in public hospitals. Private insurance will be available and the Government will ensure that favourable rates are offered to people who maintain a continuity of cover. The Government will meet the full cost of the treatment of patients without charge in those charitable and religious hospitals which wish to accept such patients, and will do so without any infringement of the autonomy and independence of these hospitals. Can anyone on the Opposition side contradict that? That is implicit and explicit in the proposal. 
The program will provide security and a high standard of care for patients, offer substantial financial relief to the State governments, establish for the first time a direct Australian Government responsibility for hospitals, and greatly simplify both the collection and distribution of funds for their support. What has the Opposition to say against this program? Nothing, except to defend the vested interests of certain doctors and private hospital proprietors and to appeal to privilege in the advocacy of private hospital care.  Senator Rae  seemed to be more concerned with the well being of a few affluent private hospitals as he was with the private schools. He was very concerned about the private schools. He was conspicuous by his absence from any of the state schools in Tasmania.  His  time is always spent looking after the more prosperous schools. No wonder he was so well briefed. The honourable senator seems far more concerned with the well being of a few affluent private., hospitals than with the great public hospitals which provide over 80 per cent of all the hospital treatment in this country. Where does  Senator Rae  think that the most skilled medical work is performed, the most complex equipment provided, and the medical and nursing staff of the future trained? Certainly it is not in the private hospitals where, despite their comfortable if not luxurious accommodation and high fees, there are not even resident medical staff to care for patients in an emergency. 
Which group of patients does the honourable senator consider to be in the greatest need? Is it that group in the single rooms of private hospitals or that group in the wards and the outpatient departments of the public hospitals which the last Government ignored and neglected for 23 years? The Opposition's affection for private hospitals and its neglect of public hospitals are in exact parallel to its attitude to schools. In both cases, it is an elite and not the overwhelming majority of the Australian population which is favoured. But  Senator Rae  says that the great majority of Australians want the old scheme. 
The honourable senator will be double disillusioned when he sees the electors next time as he put up such a poor show in running to water in regard to the Schools Commission Bill. The truth of the matter is that the Opposition has no desire to allow the members of the Australian community any real freedom to choose the type of hospital and medical care they want. What it wishes to preserve is a system in which everyone is liable for hospital fees and under which means tests are used to compel all but pensioners and the very poor to take insurance sufficient to cover treatment and accommodation as private patients. What is voluntary about a system which imposes charges on everyone and will pursue even those who qualify for public ward treatment for the debts which they incur in preserving their health? It is certainly private, with all the concealment of information which this implies, and it certainly supports the incomes of the medical profession admirably, including the Pitt Street farmers. But as a so-called voluntary system it is an expensive farce. 
The Government's program is, on the other hand, both equitable and liberal in every sense. Through agreements with the States any person admitted to a public hospital will be free to choose to be treated as a hospital patient or as a private patient. The Australian Government will meet 50 per cent of the net cost of operating public hospitals, including the cost of paying doctors for the care of hospital patients. The State governments and hospital authorities will continue to be responsible for operating public hospitals within a system which must surely meet all of the Opposition's desires for co-operative federalism. Without this assistance, the States could not for long avoid savage increases in hospital fees and even with much higher charges their budgets could not alone bear the cost of the increasing complexity of modern hospital treatment. The free hospital system in Queensland must, for example, be seriously threatened if costs continue to increase at the current rate of nearly 20 per cent per annum. We have never heard anything of the inflationary possibilities that are confronting these private schemes. Of course, all that honourable senators opposite want to do is to beat the Labor Government at any cost. The opportunists in our community have had their wings seriously clipped since the Labor Government has been in power. 
The previous measure before the Senate was a tax avoidance legislation. Many people who have been hovering around the perimeter of this country and using Noumea, New Caledonia, Norfolk Island and the New Hebrides are tax dodgers finding loopholes. The same principles apply in regard to a policy like this. We are closing the loopholes. We hope that the Austraiian public will be given a fair deal and that this will mean all Australians and not a selected few. The Government recognises valuable the contribution which private hospitals, particularly the religious and charitable hospitals, make to the health care system. They offer both a range of choice to patients and a vocational satisfaction to those who work in them. The $16 a day which the Government will pay for each patient in a private hospital will leave the patient to bear no more, on average, than for the equivalent accommodation in public hospitals. Private insurance against these fees will be much less expensive than opponents of the scheme suggest. The Government will see that insurers offer insurance to all present members on the same terms, without discrimination according to age and health status and without limits to the period of coverage. It will require, as a condition of registration, that the health insurance funds use their already excess reserves to underwrite this commitmentthe only way in which they will ever be used for the benefit of their members. The resulting rates will be such that it will be cheaper for a family receiving the average income and below to enter a private hospital than it is at present. Those who attack the Government's proposals on the ground that they will make private hospitals the preserve of the rich had better think again in the light of the facts. Compared with the present system, they will be much more accessible to low income people. It will cost a single pensioner, for example, only about half of the amount which it now costs him to insure for private hospital care. In the limited time available, let me deal with two other aspects of the Government's proposals. The first involves the staffing of public hospitals and the so-called choice of doctor issue. I want to nail one lie that has been disseminated throughout the community by various people who have their own interests at heart; that is, the statement that a patient will not have the right to choose his own doctor. There will be absolutely no change. A person will be able to go to his local doctor or, if he needs to do so, to his local clinic, at which he does not always have the choice at present as to which doctor attends him. Pensioners will have a wider choice of doctors from whom to choose. They will not have to go to the doctor allocated to them, as was the case under the previous Government's scheme. One will have the choice of selecting one 's own private doctor, as has been the case in the past. There has been a very concentrated attack on this aspect of the Labor Government's scheme. But every doctor and every health insurance contributor knows that there has never been any threat to the right of people to choose their own medical advisers. 
It has been highly offensive to me on going to my local doctor to find the wall of his surgery plastered with propaganda that I knew was untrue and to see him collecting petitions, the wording of which I knew to be untrue, to send to this Parliament day by day and then to have my letter-box and my private account assailed with propaganda that I knew to be untrue. People who traditionally have been the most ethical and looked up to group in the community have been virtually degrading themselves because they have been caught up in the political pressure that has been brought to bear to try to get revenge for the fact that there was a change of Government on 2 December of last year. 
I have dismissed the outrageous untruths that have been circulated by opponents of the scheme about patients being forced to attend certain nominated doctors or being restricted in their right to be referred to specialists in private practice. They are lies and always have been lies. The new medical benefits program follows the same principle as the present scheme, namely, that every patient has a free choice of doctor, both general practitioner and specialist. But a principle of both schemes is that full specialist benefits are not payable unless the patient has been referred. Both recognise that the patient is in no position to judge the merits of different specialists and choose the one most expert in his ailment. I pause there to say that any person who is in his right mind would take the advice of his medical adviser and go to the specialist to whom he was recommended. Who would go to someone different from the specialist to whom his medical adviser advised him to go? 
The choice is in fact exercised by the referring doctor. This is precisely what the Government proposes. It intends, in discussion with the States, to extend as far as possible the number of doctors appointed to the staffs of public hospitals for the treatment of patients who choose free treatment and to make arrangements for those patients to be referred directly to staff doctors where appropriate. In midwifery, the Government will encourage hospitals to appoint general practitioners to their staff and will treat their patients as hospital patients without charge. The suggestion by a section of the medical profession that the quality of care will decline if doctors are not free to charge fees to hospital patients is unworthy of the profession and a slur on both the professional competence and the dedication of the 40 per cent of doctors who work for salaries at present. What is more important is whether doctors are to take a real role in the public hospitals and follow their Hippocratic oath by being collectively responsible for the quality of patient care for all, or whether these great institutions are to be simply workshops in which public capital and public operating funds are used to underwrite the doctors' private practice incomes. 
Finally, there is the so-called bed shortage about which the Opposition expresses such hypocritical concern. In total there is, of course, no bed shortage. The most recent World Health Organisation statistics show that Australia has the third highest ratio of hospital beds to population of all the developed countries. Australia has 20 per cent more beds relative to population than Canada and 27 per cent more than the United Kingdom. But there is a surplus in the country, as a result of the pork-barrel politics of the Australian Country Party over many years, and a shortage in the cities reaching scandal proportions in the medically deprived western suburbs of Sydney and Melbourne. It is, of course, only the public ward beds which are in short supply, not the private beds or those in private hospitals. 
I wish to speak to the motion. I ask whether  Senator Webster  is prepared to table the document before I proceed. If he is not, I will proceed to speak to the motion. I have asked  Senator Webster  to table the document and he has shown no indication of doing so. When the Senate is dealing with unscrupulous, subtle, pernicious, untruthful, political propaganda- a campaign of untruths- it must have the right to nail these lies.  Senator Webster  has been requested to table the document. He has been asked not only to prove that the source of the document who he claimed was a doctor was really a doctor, but also to supply the Senate with documented proof of the claims that he has made. If  Senator Webster  has any principles at all he will table this document so that it will bear the scrutiny of the Senate and of the whole public at large. The public is looking for the truth now. This is the forum in which the truth will out. We have had a sustained and very expensive propaganda campaign by a very small proportion of self-interested doctors. Many of their colleagues are ashamed at the nature of this campaign because they know it is encased in untruths and conceived in deceit. I ask that  Senator Webster  table the document. I believe that he is bound by his conscience to put that document on the table. 
Motion (by  Senator Little)  proposed: 
That the question be now put. 

<graphic href="058232197312122_56_3_1_A.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="058232197312122_56_3_3_A.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="058232197312122_56_3_4_N.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="058232197312122_56_3_2_N.jpg"></graphic>

Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Question put: 
That the motion  (Senator Milliner's)  be agreed to. 
Has the attention of the Minister for the Media been drawn to an advance notice that tomorrow night's edition of This Day Tonight' is to be a satire on Australian life over the last 12 months under the Federal Labor Government? Further, has the Minister seen a statement attributed to the ProducerinChief of 'This Day Tonight' that, so far as the Australian Broadcasting Commission is, concerned, the days of political interference have been over since the present Government came into office? Will the Minister ensure the continuation of political and programming independence for the Commission? 

 -Mr President, as father of the Senate I endorse what has been said about one of my former sons, exSenator Prowse. While I regret his leaving us in his retirement I wish him good health and the comfort of having his family about him on his farm. I endorse what has been said about his gentility. I have even heard him called 'Jack the Baptist'. He has been associated with church activities and this is reflected in his general demeanour. A point that did strike me forcibly was the unanimity of the kind words that were spoken about  Senator Prowse.  I could hardly believe that honourable senators were speaking so well of someone who was still alive. Usually, they wait until an honourable senator is dead before they start praising him up. 
I will not retire until I am able to say something nice about you. However, I think that we all wish  Senator Prowse  well. I would like to commend him for his foresight in retiring at this stage. I think a lesson that should be learned by all honourable senators is to prepare for their retirement by having an active interest with which to continue. Many people give so much of their life to political activities that they forget about preparing to be with their families and with their loved ones. I endorse wholeheartedly the words that have been spoken already. 
-by leave-I would like to add my congratulations to  Senator Webster.  He may wish to draw on my experience in serving for 10 years as a Temporary  Chairman  of Committees. I thought I was serving an apprenticeship, but as a very distinguished former senator once said in his own halting way: 'You may have the logic but you have to have the numbers'. This is a numbers game, and I congratulate  Senator Webster  on having the numbers. 
Can the Minister for the Media say what is being done now to stop overseas takeovers of Australian advertising agencies? Is it a fact that the Minister's moves in this direction in the past have been deliberately blocked by both the industry body itself and the loopholes that exist in the Companies (Foreign Take-overs) Act? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Customs and Excise. By way of preface, I state that the International Narcotics Control Board claims that heroin demand is levelling off and even declining in Western countries, particularly in the United States of America and Canada. The Board gave as one of the reasons for the reduced demand a crackdown on the sources of supply. Can the Minister inform the Senate whether similar efforts have been made against the supply sources in Australia? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate in his capacity as Minister for Customs and Excise. Because the majority of the people of Australia decided not to give the Australian Government power to counter inflation by approving consititutional power over prices, will the Minister say whether there are any facilities through his Department that would assist in ensuring that reduction in import prices following exchange variations and tariff reductions are in fact passed on to consumers? 
-This debate, having taken quite a lot of the time of the Senate without getting down to the subject matter of the Bill, seems to me to be such a variety of humbug that we would have to live a long time to see its equal. We know very well indeed that the Opposition is using its numbers to try to discredit, frustrate, impede and use any method whatever not only to hold back the progress of this Government and the Parliament but also, in my view, to hold back the progress of Australia. The results and figures of the record of this Government will inevitably show a great improvement when compared with those long dreary years when the present Opposition was in power. The Opposition is afraid that this comparison will be made and so its members have adopted the tactics that they are using as a rearguard against the Goverment. 
I have had quite a lot of experience in my time with elections. I recall that I was originally elected in 1946. My term began on 1 July 1947. Another election was held in 1 95 1 , so my term of office was 5 years of a normal 6-year period. I contested other elections in 1953, 1958, 1964 and 1970, so I have contested 6 elections and my term of office should have lasted for 36 years but that period has been reduced to 27 years.  Senator 
McManus said, in reply to an interjection from  Senator James  McClelland, that the Government wished to reduce the period that a senator would serve and that a senator would not be able to fulfil his full term. That argument is absolutely exposed. The fact of life is that when a double dissolution occurred in 1951 various senators, including  Senator Marriott  who was elected in 1949 - 

 -Well, Senator Wright was elected in 1 949 and he had a 6-year term but had to face the people in 195 1 after 2 years of his 6-year term. I think he was elected very nearly at the top of the ticket and he had a full term to serve. I was in a big team in the middle of the ticket and I served the short period. 
Yes, I am still here and I am hale and hearty, too. I am able to hold my own and able to see through the concentrated essence of hypocrisy and humbug after all these years what the Opposition is trying to put over us on this side of the House and over the people of Australia. 
Nothing is more certain than that it is a democratic process to go to the people. If there is a conflict that cannot be resolved we have the ultimate method of a double dissolution. We should not repeat what was commenced in 1963- the separation of elections for the House of Representatives and the Senate. We should not subject the people to expense and inconvenience of 3 Federal elections every 5 years. The Bill attempts to correct that situation. Yet we have this mock horror on the part of Opposition senators when they say that it is not necessary to synchronise the elections between the House of Representatives and the Senate. Every logical argument supports the method of bringing the elections together. 
The proposition that has been put up by way of amendment is a whole gaggle of half truths. The amendment commences by stating that it would be a travesty of constitutional and parliamentary practice if this Bill, which so vitally affects the powers and independence of this Senate, were to be rushed through the proper parliamentary processes and submitted to the people without the most careful examination. I cannot credit that mature people could use language of such extravagance. If anyone believes that statement he must be easily convinced. This measure was debated in this Parliament at length on 20 November 1973. Anyone can see in Hansard that what we did then is being repeated almost word for word today. We presented this measure in accordance with the proper forms of the Senate and the Opposition opposed and failed to pass it. When Opposition members speak of this Bill being rushed through the proper parliamentary processes they are fooling no one. Now they come out with more extravagance and say that the proposals contained in the Bill will destroy the independence of the Senate and thus weaken the federal structure. I cannot possibly see how bringing the elections for the Senate and the House of Representatives together- an economic proposition on the one hand and a sensible and convenient proposition on the other- could be termed destroying the independence of the Senate and weakening the federal structure. The amendment shows how barren members of the Opposition must be of constructive thought to suggest that this Bill could destroy the independence of the Senate. 
The second part of the amendment states that the 6-year terms for senators could be reduced to less than 18 months by mid-term dissolutions. I have just pointed out that 6-year terms were reduced to about that period when  Senator Wright  and I were first elected but we could not complain about that. The numbers counted as always and the people were asked to judge when this confrontation took place between rival ideologies and policies. It is ridiculous to use the argument that the 6-year terms could be reduced to less than 18 months, because the forms of the Senate already provide for that situation. I have never heard a very strong argument put up against the forms of the Senate in that respect. Paragraph 3 of the amendment states: 
Continuity of the Senate would be destroyed because, every time there is a House of Representatives election, 30 senators would go out of office for about 3 months while an election took place. 
That happens at least twice every 6 years. Under the present set-up it sometimes happens 4 times in 6 years or 3 times in 5 years. So that argument is completely without foundation. Paragraph 4 of the amendment states: 
Under present arrangements there are always 60 senators and this continuity is a strength. 
What does that mean? Under the present system anybody who is elected to the Senate is not able to take his seat until the following July. A public servant or person who holds an office of profit under the Crown has to resign from his job when he is elected to the Senate. He could have to wait for anything up to 1 1 months before he takes his seat. People who have been elected to the Senate at a democratic election do not take their seats until the following July. As a result there are often quite a number of lame dogs who sit in the Senate for the period of time after they are defeated at an election until their term of office expires. 
If I were to quack like  Senator Marriott  I could be accused of being a duck. The argument about the continuity of strength under the present arrangements is not a valid one because senators-elect have to wait until the following July before they can take their seats. Paragraph 5 of the amendment states: 
If the Senate loses 30 senators for 3 months every time there is a House of Representatives election, the Senate's committee activity could not continue during that period. 
I cannot understand that. It is gibberish. Every time there is a Senate election campaign the whole of the parliamentary procedure is disturbed. Honourable senators opposite know that quite well. All sorts of grandstanding goes on for months before, during and often after each election. To argue that the Senate's committee activity could not continue during such a period is really to draw the long bow. The next paragraph of the amendment is a very subtle one. Paragraph 6 states: 
The Senate's greatest power (be it a reserve power) is to refuse Supply and bring about a single dissolution of the House of Representatives in circumstances where it may be considered that the Government's administration is not in the best interests of the country and that they should be sent to the judgment of the people. 
That is the exact proposition we are putting forward in saying that the Constitution alteration proposals should be submitted to the people for their judgment. As was pointed out to  Senator Lawrie  earlier, the Opposition is afraid to let the Government go through the democratic process of asking the people to decide upon these matters at a time when it is most economical to do so, namely, at the time of a general election or the equivalent of a general election. Every elector is obliged to vote at such an election. The electoral rolls are brought up to date for such an election. The necessary polling facilities are provided for such an election. Is that not a reasonable time to put forward such propositions? 
The amendment states that the Government's administration of the country is not in the best interests of the country and that is should be sent to the judgment of the people. The Government feels that the present restrictive constitutional powers are not in the best interests of the good government of the country. Opposition senators believe that they are. They would because they represent the old conservative, stick-in-the-mud, Edward Heath type- I was going to say Heath 
Robinson type, but they creak more than Heath Robinson- of Government that has got Great Britain into the mess in which it is in at present. The people of Great Britain have had to call on a Labour Government to get them out of the mess into which the equivalent in the United Kingdom of honourable senators opposite have got them. The Labour Party in the United Kingdom was not afraid to meet the judgment of the people; neither is the Labor Party in Australia. The Labor Party believes that the proposed constitutional alterations are necessary and in the best interests of the people. The final paragraph of the amendment states: 
If it is desired to bring the elections for the 2 Houses together, a simple solution is for the House of Representatives to shorten its own term and go to the polls at the next Senate election, due to be held before 30 June 1 974. 
Honourable senators of the opposition are whistling in the dark. They believe that they were born to rule. They cannot understand that there is an alternative to their threadbare philosophies and policies and that a breath of fresh air has blown into every section of the Australian community and its government. The Opposition is using every form of the Senate it can to frustrate the Government. It is using the Senate as a facade to carry out its policy of frustrating the Government and the Parliament. Honourable senators of the opposition know that they are going to reject these proposals when they are eventually put forward. Let us get on with the business of the Senate. The Opposition does not want to pass them; it wants to delay them. It will use all of the forms of the Senate it can to prevent them from being passed. I feel certain that the Governor-General will see through the Opposition, as the Government has seen through it, and that the people will be given an opportunity to adjudicate on these matters at the time of the next Senate election. 
I suppose one could say that tonight the Senate has been subjected to a performance worthy of a Russian circus, and I think  Senator Carrick  probably will get some offers to join up with the circus. But he reminded me of an old unsuccessful oil driller. He plugged away, never getting any good oil. He just keeps on boring. That was a most boring speech. He was a spokesman for his side of the chamber and for the discredited and unfortunate party which misgoverned this country for so long and which is now fighting a losing discredited rearguard. 
That is right. Speaking on behalf of his Party in this hysterical speech he sounded as if he was suffering from the same sort of anxiety or hysteria as his own Party suffered when it knew very well that it had had it. He was struggling to find some story so that he could try to convince somebody. I do not know whom he could possibly convince. He used words such as commissar' and 'Jekyll and Hyde' and other hysterical phrases such as are used by a person who is bordering on the psychopath. There is the old saying that anyone who goes to a psychiatrist needs his head read.  Senator Carrick  seems to make a feature of the Reds. He is a great Red man. Really the highlight of his whole political career has been his cashing in on the Reds. It is nearly a lost cause. (Quorum formed).  Senator Greenwood's  leader made an agreement that this Address-in-Reply debate would continue tonight and that any difficulties would be overlooked because it had been expected that the Senate would rise early and some people had made family commitments. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  I must ask that the accusation of an untruth, unless it can be proved, be withdrawn. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- 

 Senator O'Byrne, Senator Greenwood has said that there was no agreement made and that the statement that an agreement was broken is offensive to him. I ask you to withdraw it. 

 - Mr Acting Deputy President, there was an agreement between  Senator Greenwood's  leader and the Leader of the Government in the Senate. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  The accusation related to  Senator Greenwood.  Under those circumstances I ask you to withdraw it. 
I did not make the accusation against  Senator Greenwood;  I made it against his leader. But if  Senator Greenwood  feels aggrieved, I withdraw. 

 - Mr Acting Deputy President, I will admit that my esteemed colleague and Opposition Whip,  Senator Young,  did discuss this matter with me. But we are the Opposition and Government Whips in this place, and we have to have regard to arrangements that are made by our leaders. This was announced by my leader, the Leader of the Government in the Senate.  Senator Withers  is not here to substantiate this agreement. The matter was between the 2 leaders. There should be some decency shown, and we should be able to proceed without disrupting the proceedings of the Senate in this way. 
He has lived on repetitious and sickening Red baiting ever since the time of the old technique of the black-coated bureaucrat and the despicable propaganda of 'open the door Richard ' of 1949. He and his kind knew it was false. They were attacking the Public Service and not the Opposition. They fed on this type of thing. Sometimes one would think that their heads were full of Reds when their bellies were not. I feel that tonight we have had a real old Red baiting and rabble rousing speech typical of the McCarthy era. I repudiate the attack that  Senator Carrick  has made on our Government. It was intemperate, ill-informed and almost incoherent because he hissed out venom like a cobra. It does him no credit and it does his Party no credit. 

 Senator Carrick spoke of giving judgment on 25 points of the Labor mandate, some of which related to reducing the rate of inflation. If I remember correctly, when he was relatively new his erstwhile leader used to talk about putting value back into the pound. The honourable senator referred to a confidence trick. There is no such thing as the 1 Pound. They had to get rid of it because it was being reduced in value so quickly. What dishonesty and hypocrisy it is to talk of reducing inflation. Inflation has been inherent and incipient in this country since my youth when bread was 3.5d a loaf. The only prices that come down are the bookmakers' prices.  Senator Carrick  referred to broken promises and contempt for people, but what did we see when we came into power? In the war in Vietnam the Vietnamese people were suffering from all the power, technology and combined strength of the warmongers who were dropping bombs on those unfortunate people. 
What came in its wake? Retribution has come in its wake and the country that initiated a containment policy and waged war today is in moral ruin. Its leader is discredited and streakers are running around the country.  Senator Carrick  will be one before long because he has got a streak of red in him. Under the previous Government we were sycophants of those great moral upholders. We would have tagged along behind under their so-called umbrella. Where would they have taken us? Into the morass in which they find themselves today. Our Government is following a new line, the new way of peace and friendship with our neighbours. When we came into office about 15 months ago we had no relations at all with China, one of the neighbours in our area, a country of 800 million people. We had nothing to do with them because they are Reds. Despite the hysteria of that time we are finding now that they are relatively friendly people. They want to trade with us. They have a great culture behind them. They are seeking development, but before we came into power maps were drawn and to fool the people arrows printed on them showed the alleged threat of attack by the Red Chinese.  Senator Carrick  thinks there is a Red under his bed. 
What has happened to our foreign affairs policy? We now have a better relationship with Indonesia, Singapore, Japan and the Philippines. Our neighbours are important to us. We are no longer tied to the old militarist and capitalist system. Great Britain today is wallowing in hopelessness and that is where the friends of  Senator Carrick  would have this wonderful country, with all its resources and bright future. But we made a few alterations in policy to get out of the rut in which  Senator Carrick  would have kept us- out of the slough of despond we were in for so long under the previous Government. 

 Senator Carrick referred to 25 so called repudiations. They are as hollow as a drum. If we had followed the policy of the previous Government we would have had no oil from the Middle East. It would have led us into all the wars in its traditional style. They got us into every dog fight, in Korea and everywhere else down the line. Australia was involved in every war that was on. What did we get out of it? Nothing. We never got anything out of war. The longer the Liberal Government was in power the more difficult it was becoming to escape being involved in war. What did we get out of the Crimean war and the South African war? Who were the winners of those great wars? The winners were losers and the losers were the winners. 
The honourable senator talks about freedom. It is a relative word. 
-Of course it did not stop me. I lost my freedom. I gave it up in a cause. As  Senator Little  has raised the matter I now ask him what he was doing. He was probably planning how to sell porn in his porn shop. Not only that, he was learning how to manipulate unions as he did during his industrial career. 
No, not jealous. Australia is only just getting its freedom back. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Wood)-  Order!  Senator O'Byrne,  you must not reflect upon another senator by saying that he manipulates unions. 
We have a few like him in Tasmania who are making a pretty good attempt to manipulate. They learned from him. He is an old dog for a hard track. I will return to some of the outrageous claims made by  Senator Carrick.  I will take him up on some to the positive aspects. Australia wants to go ahead. We do not want to paddle in the puddle of the past like  Senator Carrick  and his friends want us to do. They should paddle in their own puddle. I want to talk about the positive things we have done. In our first Budget we committed $843m to education, almost double the expenditure of our predecessors in that area. 
Of course. They are worse than Willy the Whingeing Pom. They make you cry. At least we had some initiative. We could see the vision splendid of making this country great, independent and free. We established the Schools Commission. 
I have heard you praise the Karmel report. 
I heard you cringeing around trying to get a few extra baubles for some of your private schools. I have heard it said that you have never visited the state schools. You are a perpetuator of class divisions. You would rather look after the tall poppies rather than the ordinary Australian. We know your form, we know you well. But you could not get away from admitting that the Karmel report was a tremendous achievement and has given the go-ahead for education in Australia. The Schools Commission has been set up to tackle the great problem of the fundamental things of any democratic nation. Educate your children, enlighten your children, and then you are building up an asset for your future. The government which the honourable senator supported perpetuated the idea 'keep them ignorant, keep them pregnant, keep them in the kitchen and you have got cheap labour'. We believe that our people can reach for the stars, can add to their dignity and expand their quality of life. These are the things to which we aspire. Consider the degree to which we have taken over responsibility for tertiary education. We have abolished fees for tertiary education, a revolutionary concept in Australia. 
I would like to set a lot of silvertails on your silver tail. The young people in our universities must, and do, appreciate the fact that higher learning and tertiary education is no longer an area of perpetuated vested interest, that people can aspire to achieve the highest and widest range for their talents- and we are providing the basis for this. We initiated the noncompetitive living allowance for full time and unbonded Australian students. If people wanted to get something from the tight, lousy-bagged government which existed until we came into power, they had to bond themselves. They had to agree to be bound to follow a particular line whereas our view is that by investing in the minds of men- our greatest asset- we set them free and they can choose where they want to go. Not so the previous Government. This is one of the mandates we were given and one of the mandates we are honouring. We have provided $32m for this purpose. Not only that, we provided an educational allowance of up to $304 a year for children in their final 2 years of secondary school. 
What else did we do? We made grants to libraries. We granted funds to make available 500,000 more books to college students. Further, we went into the field of teacher training, for of all the people in this country who contribute towards making this a greater nation our school teachers rank first. What was happening in teacher training? Only inadequate facilities and inadequate and limited courses were available. But we find now that the number of Commonwealth Teaching Service scholarships has increased from 120 in 1972 to well over 400 at present. What did we do about isolated children? What did we do about scholarships for preschool teachers? What did we do in these areas? 
-We put the scheme into operation. Actions, not words! All we heard from the previous Government was words: Bullfrog- 10 per cent frog. What about help for needy students? We helped them immediately. We granted $3m last year to help destitute tertiary students. What about child care standards to which we have directed our attention? What about increased salaries for academics to give them proper remuneration? 
You set it up with words, we put it into action. These are some of the 25 mandates which  Senator Carrick  claims we promised but did not carry out. I am just telling the Senate the fact and putting it on the record. Regarding pensioners, I would just like to remind  Senator Carrick  that we have just made an announcement that the standard rate of pension will be increased by $3 a week to $26 a week for a single person and that the married rate will be increased by $5 a week. 
I can remember the miserable, parsimonious, hopeless handouts of 50c whenever you could squeeze it from the Treasurer. Half a dollar! 'Lucky Joe' they used to call the pensioners when they got half a dollar. I want to remind some Opposition senators that they are going to find it a bit difficult next time they go among age pensioners and try to sell them the Red bogy and all the other hypothetical things that they have visited on them for the last 23 years since the new single rate of pension will be 22.5 per cent of average weekly earnings and the married rate will be 39.5 per cent of average weekly earnings- and that our objective of giving pensioners 50 per cent of average weekly earnings is within sight. It is going to cost a lot of money- $222m a year- for us to give this increase. But I suppose when one puts that cost against the cost of the F 1 11 or some of the other hardware which the Government which  Senator Little,  who is interjecting, supported for so long, and whose Party by holding the balance of power kept in office, we could spend that money with the international warmongers. They would have given us so-called security with equipment with inbuilt obsolescence which was worn out before it ever went into use. But that is part of the process. It is just part of the difference between honourable senators opposite and me. I have a different attitude, a different ideology. I believe in people. I believe in the improvement of the standard of living, not destruction and war. 
What has happened under this Government is that the cycle of boom, bust and war has been disturbed. Every 25 years, under the governments formed by the predecessors of honourable senators opposite, there would be a building down to depression, then up to a war, and then to a boom. Honourable senators opposite are upset that this cycle has been disturbed. I think this is why they are so hysterical. We have full employment in this country, and we intend to maintain it. Of course, the only way in which to make vast profits is either to overcharge the consumer or to underpay the worker. But we have changed that. We have frightened the people who have been working on this cycle for so long. 
Despite the fact that we have broken that cycle, I notice that it is reported in the daily Press that Bougainville Copper Pty Ltd is not doing too badly. The Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd is not doing too badly. As a matter of fact, it is making record profits. The Colonial Sugar Refining Co. Ltd is showing record profits but it wants more subsidies and sugar concessions and things like this to be perpetuated. Wool prices have never been better. The price of beef has never been higher. As a matter of fact, beef has never been higher since the cow jumped over the moon. The cost of a pound of good steak today is fantastic. I did not think we would ever see meat costing so much here. When I came back from the United States after attending the United Nations 3 years ago, I was running around telling people that the situation in America was shocking; that one had to pay $5 for a leg of lamb. But one cannot get a leg of lamb for $5 here now. 
Honourable senators opposite are talking about inflation. Although we may think we have galloping inflation here, we are just breaking into a trot. Inflation is an international problem. 
They said that Mary had a little Iamb, but the lamb that she had was very little; it was so expensive that she could not afford to buy it. 
If the honourable senator went over there they would sell him for a goat. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Davidson)-  Order!  Senator Little, Senator O'Byrne  is addressing the chair and I think we should hear him. 
That is very good of you; thank you,  Mr Acting Deputy President.  We are talking about honouring a mandate. We said that we would try to increase the pension rate until it represented 50 per cent of average weekly earnings. 
It is up to 39 per cent, yes. We have had 3 bites of the cherry: The first instalment was $1.50; the second was $1.50; and now it is proposed to increase the pension by $3. When we came into power the single rate of pension was equivalent to 18 per cent or 19 per cent of average weekly earnings. 
Yes, of course it is; there is a vast improvement there. I am not worried about the claims made by some people that the big companies are badly off, because if one looks at the financial sections of the 'Australian', the  Financial Review ' or any of the newspapers that have a financial section, one sees that there are whole pages covered with announcements of bonus issues and increased dividends, despite all the gloom spreaders. It would appear that they are all waiting on  Senator Rae's  report, and he has been holding it back. I do not know; he blames the printers. But, of course, the whole system - 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Davidson)- Senator Greenwood  has referred to standing order 418 which refers to reflections made on other honourable senators.  Senator O'Byrne,  the matter before the Chair tonight is the Address-in-Reply. In this debate you can cover a fairly wide range of subjects, but I think you should keep to the various matters which are the subject of discussion and keep away from those areas of discussion which might reflect on other honourable senators. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  I have not reached the conclusion that the statements made by  Senator O'Byrne  were offensive to  Senator Rae. Senator Rae  has not raised the issue.  Senator Greenwood  has drawn attention to standing order 4 1 8. He has put forward the point of view that the words used by  Senator O'Byrne  could be construed as being offensive to another honourable senator. My response to that earlier was to counsel  Senator O'Byrne  that he should not engage in this kind of reflection or, indeed, in the expression of this kind of opinion about an honourable senator. I asked  Senator O'Byrne  to keep his remarks to the subject matter which is before the Senate tonight, namely, the AddressinReply, acknowledging that this is a fairly wide ranging debate.  Senator O'Byrne,  I think you might take account of the point raised by  Senator Greenwood  and, as you take up the debate, express a word of apology for the words that you used. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- 

 Senator Withers, you are making the allegation that  Senator O'Byrne  used certain words. Can I have those words again? 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- 

 Senator O'Byrne, did you accuse  Senator Rae  of deliberately holding up the report of the select committee? 
I would like  Senator Rae  to write out, so that he conforms with the Standing Orders, what I did say- 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  But,  Senator O  'Byrne - 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- 
Order!  Senator O'Byrne,  I ask you: In the course of your remarks did you use the words that  Senator Rae  had deliberately held up a report of his Committee? 

 - Mr Acting Deputy President, you show me those words in writing and I will say whether I said them. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  But I am asking you a question,  Senator O'Byrne.  Either you said the words or you did not. 
Did I stop beating my wife? 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- 
Order!  Senator O'Byrne,  you will not insult the Chair in that way. I am extremely displeased with you that you insult the Chair in this way. I ask you the question again because, sitting in the Chair, I am taking notice of a number of things. I am listening to most of the words you use but some words can escape me. Surely you can remember whether you used the words. I ask you: Did you say that  Senator Rae  deliberately held up the report of the Select Committee? If you give me an answer in relation to this I shall know exactly what steps to take. 

 - Mr Acting Deputy President, I can say this, that if I said deliberately - 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- 
Order! I am not asking you if you said it deliberately. Will you please tell me whether you said that. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- 
Order!  Senator Cant  - 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- 
Order!  Senator Cant,  please resume your seat. I am talking to  Senator O'Byrne. 
You are turning this Senate into a court of trial. You are trying to force  Senator O  'Byrne to admit to saying something. The onus of proof is on the accuser. I refer you to - 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- 
Order!  Senator Wriedt,  by the 'original request' do you mean the request to  Senator O'Byrne  as to whether he used the words? 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- 
Thank you very much.  Senator O'Byrne,  if you made a reflection on  Senator Rae  will you please withdraw the remark. 
Yes. If I made any reflection against  Senator Rae  I withdraw the remark. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Do you withdraw it unconditionally? 
You have not made any conditions. What are you doing? 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- 


 - Mr Acting Deputy President, I would like to know: What do you think you are doing? 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- 

 Senator O'Byrne, I accept your withdrawal. 
I was not asked to withdraw unconditionally. You put those terms on. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- 
Order! I am sorry. I accept your withdrawal. Will you please continue? 
You had better. I will continue with my speech. I say this: I am very disappointed at the work of the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange. It has been dragging on for years and years. The Committee has delved into the whole of the economic racket in Australia. Some of the worst spivs who were supposedly the top boys in business in Australia will be and have been exposed by these investigations. For the good of Australia  Senator Rae,  as  Chairman  of the Committee, should have been falling over backwards to try to tell his colleagues in the community of what has been going on. 
Instead of this he comes up and says - 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Davidson)-  Order!  Senator O'Byrne,  I must ask you again to keep within the Standing Orders of the Senate. You have heard the points of view which have been put forward. It is keenly felt by members of the Senate that you are reflecting on the members of the Committee to which you have referred. I must ask you to keep within the Standing Orders of the Senate and to watch the borders of debate and discussion. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- 
Order!  Senator Greenwood,  you are asking for a withdrawal. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- 
Order!  Senator O'Byrne,  the words which have been used are claimed by honourable senators to be grossly offensive and they are seeking their withdrawal. Looking at standing order 418, I think, in the light of keeping the debate on an even keel, you should withdraw and then continue your remarks in the Address-in-Reply debate. 
I will withdraw and continue my remarks.  Senator Carrick  performed the old can-tipping job. Honourable senators opposite remind me of the old drover's dog. They can give it but they cannot take it. I was just tipping a little bit of the gravy from the top. I have not started to give the hard stuff yet. 
I suppose that being on a committee with you would be a hardship. Members would avoid it as often as they could, and you are blaming it on the printers. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Davidson)-  Order!  Senator O'Byrne,  you will address the Chair. You will continue your remarks in relation to the Address-in-Reply debate. 
The Address-in-Reply debate is a debate on the outline of the Speech which is the blueprint for the future of this country. During this debate  Senator Carrick  made some rather outrageous attacks on the Government. I was trying to refute some of the neotruths and untruths which were put forward when the honourable senator spoke about inflation, prices, pensions and the long list of things which he claimed were repudiated. The word which he actually used was 'repudiation'. I suppose that if I had been thin-skinned and hypocritical I would have asked him to withdraw the word 'repudiation' because it is a very harsh word, yet I felt that this could be overlooked. However,  Senator Carrick  proceeded along his way in attacking the Government. I felt that I could quite well be given the liberty and the licence that the honourable senator was given, quid pro quo. I could have given him his buck 's worth.  Senator Carrick  gloats over inflation. I think that he likes to see inflation continuing because his colleagues profiteer out of it. The ordinary income earner and the retired person loses by inflation. The only people who can ride the crest of the wave of inflation are those in multinational companies in big business- the monopolists and the takeover merchants, the ones that have been investigated by the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange. They are the overseas manipulators and the hot money merchants. They are the ones that the members of the Senate Securities and Exchange Committee know all about, but they are the only ones who know anything about it yet. We want to know about it and we want this Committee to hurry up. If necessary, it should go to a private printer to have the report printed. If it wants to hide under the screen of the excuse that the Government Printer cannot handle the work, let it farm out the work to one of the printers in private enterprise and get out the report. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Davidson)- Senator O'Byrne,  a request has been made for remarks to be withdrawn on the ground that they are offensive. I think that you would know from your long experience that if remarks are made that are offensive they are not conducive to good debate in the Senate. Therefore, I think that in response to  Senator Durack  's protest you should withdraw the remarks to which he has referred and continue your speech in the Address-in-Reply debate. 
I suppose that I can apologise again or withdraw or do whatever it is that is necessary. But,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  the truth hurts, you know. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- 
Order!  Senator O'Byrne,  you will be familiar with the fact that standing order 418 refers to offensive words. When a senator rises in his place and claims that words are offensive, account must be taken of this fact.  Senator O'Byrne,  I ask you to withdraw the words to which  Senator Durack  has taken exception and then, please, to continue your speech in the Address-in-Reply debate. 
I will withdraw the offensive words and just say this: If I had called on  Senator Carrick  to withdraw all the offensive words that he uttered in his speech I would have been up and down like a yo yo. I will continue my statement of the achievements of our Government. I point out that we have honoured our mandate in regard to social service payments to all types of pensioners. As I have said, between the period of the 1972 Budget presented when members of the Opposition were in government and the 1973 Budget the payment in regard to the single rate of pension increased by 15 per cent and the combined married rate of pension increased by 1 7.4 per cent. Under this Government the single rate pension will be 22.57 per cent of average weekly earnings and the rate of payment in respect of the combined married rate will be 39.5 per cent of average weekly earnings. If that is not honouring a mandate, I would like to know what is.  Senator Carrick  used most extravagant language about our attitude to this mandate for aged people. We have also said that there will be further increases in the August Budget and that it will take a second step towards the total abolition of the means test. We heard this mouthed by Opposition senators and Opposition members in another place for 22 years, and they did nothing. Within a short period of 1 5 months we have taken a second step towards the total abolition of the means test. The pensions of persons 70 years of age and over will be paid, free of means test. 
The next point I would like to make is that under our Government during the last 1 5 months there has been a major improvement in the living standards of people on pensions. In addition, absolute standards as well as relativity to average standards in the community have been improved. Under our Government, neglect of pensioners has become a thing of the past. I think that it is one of our great achievements that the disregard of and cynicism towards the poorer people in the community that existed for so long in this country is now a thing of the past. 
I would like to refer to some of the other points that were made about the economy by  Senator Carrick.  I have pointed out that full employment or as near to full employment as is possible has been achieved under a Labor Government. There has definitely been an upturn in the economy. Overseas balances have never been higher and of course we have been fortunate in many ways. It is said that fortune favours the brave, and we have been brave. We have laid the groundwork so that we can reap the rewards of good seasons on overseas markets. The demand and other such matters will come as grist to the mill. We have seen a dramatic upturn in the economy on every level. 
There are a few areas that still need attention. But our Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and our Ministers in the various portfolios are giving their full time and attention to getting into these areas to try to smooth them out. During 1 973 the real gross domestic product has increased by 6.S per cent compared with an increase of 2 per cent during 1972. Domestic production is running at $2, 000m a year more than it would have been if the underemployment of 1972 had been allowed to persist. We realise the greed and the avarice of many people who can live in a so-called entrepreneurial society in which the attitude is:  Blow you, Jack; I am all right'. 
We applied to the electorate to give the Commonwealth the long needed power to try to hold down prices. But every man Jack on the Opposition side went out campaigning to fool the people. They voted against giving the Com. nonwealth this power. Opposition member are still whinging. Many of them are whinging about inflation. They are fair fighters, of course. They want to fight their opponent and have his hands tied behind his back. They give a bloke a kick when they can, then tie his hands behind his back and pummel him. When they think that they have got him down they say: 'What good boys are we'. But we will find our alternative ways. We have introduced a prices justification tribunal. We have made various alterations in our tariff policy. 
Of course  Senator Sim  would suffer from future shock. He is so far back in the 1900s that he does not realise that it is 7 March 1974, not 1874. He is rather a dim sim about the place. He is a bit behind the times. The establishment of a Prices Justification Tribunal is a very sound contribution towards an oversight of the greed and the avarice of exploiters who were in such full flight when the previous Government was in power. We have introduced the Industries Assistance Commission. We believe that this Commission can keep a very close look at our industries and those which need assistance will receive it. 
We have heard a lot about the primary industries. I would say that they are in a very good position in nearly every direction because of good seasons and world demand for their products. 
If I may pay tribute to the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt),  let me say that good administration of his Department, good rapport, good public relations and an inspiring policy have the farmers at long last seeing the stars and not the mud. Gone is the pork barrelling that has been going on with the parasitic parties that have been hanging onto the body politic of government, squeezing and sucking every ounce of political advantage and getting everything they could to farm off to their few gerrymandered electors. The farmers at last are seeing a higher, greater and wider vision. They can see that under our Minister and our policy they will get an umbrella on the wet day and they will not need it on the fine day. The previous Government promised the umbrella on a fine day and as soon as it started to rain the umbrella was taken away. 
The farmers are being encouraged to worry about what is going to happen when the agreement expires. This is a movable arrangement. The phosphate agreement under any government would be completed normally at the end of this year. It would be up for revision whichever Party was in power. The superphosphate bounty originally was introduced by a Labor Government to help needy farmers, lt was introduced to help to remedy in Australian soil a deficiency that has happened because of the geology of our country. We have a low rainfall and the phosphates have been leached out of our soil. Over many years there has been a considerable replacement of these phosphates. The original purpose behind the introduction of the trace element phosphate into our soil was to trigger the nitrogenous plants which would then add nitrogen to the soil. This is part of the cycle that takes place. We need this balance of trace elements. In many places fertility has been lifted to the point where the soil has sufficient nitrogen and does not need much superphoshpate. 
As a matter of fact, there is a claim that more can be achieved by keyline farming, natural methods, chisel ploughing and perpetuating the living soil. By killing off the micro organisms with inorganic fertilisers more harm than good can be done to the soil. There could possibly come a time when soil was overloaded with superphosphate. These are matters of which the farmers are quite aware. If any organisations or individual farmers can put up a genuine case of need to the Industries Assistance Commission, the Government, the local member or any member on the Government side, they will find a generous Minister and a very considerate Government to meet the need. But it is wrong to hand out an open cheque from the Treasury for the big tall poppies who have gained so much out most of these subsidies. We try to help the little bloke but we find that the little bloke gets poorer and the big bloke gets richer. That is the way it works out in practically every field where there have been subsidies. The rich get richer and the poor get children. We think this also can be reversed by helping the needy. 
The Government has put a check on foreign takeovers. We can find out how secondary industry is going by looking at the newspapers. Companies are earning higher dividends and making bonus issues. We have put a check to a certain extent on foreign takeovers and certainly on takeovers that have occurred in industries in which the foreign money has taken no part in development. Foreign investors were stalking around Australia looking for the best investments, the easiest money, places where there were great assets tucked away by conservative directorship over the years. It was only a matter of foreign investors moving in and getting a percentage of the shares. The people in other countries could then sit back and watch the interest and the dividends flow in while Australians were battling in the courts trying to get wage justice. 
I had quite a lot to say about social security. We have no compunction in claiming that our social security policy is the best that has ever been known in the history of Australia. I refer now to our policy on resources. In a period of world energy crisis we find how well equipped Australia is. We have not let the exploiters come in and mine our uranium or exploit our other great resources. We have those resources for the future. We have gas and oil reserves which will keep the wheels of our industries turning. We have sufficient resources for our defence. Unlike some of the Opposition members who would have sold out our birthright for a mess of pottage we have all the resources in the ground as though they were in the bank. They are there for any emergency which might arise, for instance in defence, and there are sufficient to keep the wheels of our industries turning. 
The same applies to the exploitation that is still going on with regard to our iron ore. Some supervision is needed. Someone spoke today about the shortage of nails. This matter concerns the monopolists, Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd, in whose hands this particular section of our economy has been reposed. It is a reflection upon BHP and its subsidiaries that they have not been able to anticipate the growing needs of this nation in regard to home building, fencing wire, other commodities required on the land and also fittings. This company, which has had such an enormous monopoly is short changing us. It will have to look to its laurels and meets its responsibilities. Otherwise we will have to go abroad and bring in these commodities from some other country. It is all very fine to have kick at the Government about this matter, but it should be remembered that Australia still has a private enterprise economy, as have the United States, New Zealand, the United Kingdom and the European common market countries. All of those private enterprise economy countries are having a bit of a stew in their own juices, but our juice is a little richer than theirs. I think it is our responsibility to keep it that way. 
I refute  Senator Carrick  's litany of exaggerated misstatements of the truth. What he has said does not warrant any close examination. I think that we as a Government are entitled to be proud of the start we have made. After all Rome was not built in a day. We had to stop the downhill movement of 23 years of mis-government, get into neutral and then start going uphill again. That is what we have been doing. We are at that stage at the present time. I believe that the people of Australia will see at the next election that we have their interests at heart. I believe that they will say that we have started off well, that Australia is going ahead, and they will give us a further mandate to go on with the job we are doing. We have nothing at all to be ashamed of. I believe that the Government is going great guns. I believe that those people who compare what they have been forced to accept ever since the war years and what they have now will appreciate that they now have a dynamic and thoroughly dedicated Government that has great plans about increasing the welfare of the people and the environment in which they live. Those are very worthy objectives. I refute what  Senator Carrick  has said in an attempt to downgrade the great achievements of the Government. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
I address this question to the Minister for Customs and Excise. By way of preface I draw his attention to a report last week in the national Press which said that police feared toy guns. The report went on to say that high quality imitation machineguns and pistols have reappeared for sale in Melbourne toy shops and that the guns are of such a top standard that police fear they will be used by bandits in armed holdups. Did the Minister see this report suggesting that the importation of imitation guns should be banned? Can the Minister inform the Senate whether the Department of Customs and Excise proposes to take any action in this matter? 
I draw the attention of the Senate to an obligation which we have to follow not only the Standing Orders and the usual practices of the Senate but also the procedures which have been handed down to this Senate from Westminster.  Mr Odgers  at page 108 of the Third Edition of 'Australian Senate Practice' states: 
When the Address has been agreed to, a motion is made that it be presented to  His Excellency  the Governor-General by the  President  and such Senators as may desire to accompany him. This motion is moved by the Leader of the Government in the Senate in the following terms: 
I move that the Address-in-Reply be presented to  His Excellency  the Governor-General by the  President  and such Senators as may desire  to  accompany him. 
I submit that that motion has not been moved by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Murphy).  Because of the objectionable addendum, amendment or however we describe the political slant of the Opposition's motion, this motion has not been moved by the Leader of the Government in the Senate as required - 
This is found on page 108 - 
-Standing order 366 states: 
Whenever it be deemed proper to present an Address to  Her  Majesty . . .the same shall be proposed, except in cases of urgency, on Motion after Notice in the usual manner. 
I read out the other one. I think it is quite clear. The point I make is that because of the objectionable nature of this amendment, or this tag-on, and because of the political propaganda which honourable senators opposite in their temporary stage - 
That is the motion to which I am speaking. I clearly point out that it is the prerogative of the Leader of the Government in the Senate to move this motion. It is a practice which has been continued along the lines adopted at Westminster. The point I am establishing now is that we should follow that precedent. Unless the Leader of the Government in the Senate chooses to move this motion there is no motion before the Senate. 
Who is running this, that is what I would like to know. Is the Government running the country or are a bunch of naggers and hagglers on the other side of the chamber? They could not run a fowl house. However I submit that this matter should be cleared up now. This is the prerogative of the Leader of the Government in the Senate. If he chooses not to move the motion because of the objectionable features of the amendment then it should not be moved. 
-To illustrate to the people who have been listening to this debate the nature of the fatuous outpourings of  Senator Greenwood  in regard to this matter, I would like to read from the Fortieth Report of the Grants Commission. In the introduction to that Report the Commission said: 
The year 1972-73 has been a significant one in the history of the Grants Commission. Following the elections of 1972, the new Government of Australia moved to give effect to an election undertaking related to the Commission's activities, namely that local government authorities should have direct access to the Grants Commission to enable them to apply for special grants of financial assistance, in much the same way as States have access to the Commission for the past forty years. 
In the Autumn Session of 1973 the Grants Commission Act 1973 was enacted by the Commonwealth Parliament, repealing the Commonwealth Grants Commission Act 1933-1957 and providing for a new Commission to inquire into and report upon applications by States and by approved regional organisations of local governing bodies for special financial assistance. 
This simply is the proposition that is incorporated in the Bill before the Senate. The introduction to this Report goes on to state: 
The Grants Commission Act 1973 provides for the continuation of the Commission's traditional role of inquiring into applications by States for special grants of financial assistance. The Commission's role in relation to local government bodies will carry its investigation into new dimensions of public finance which will undoubtedly pose many problems in determining the principles and practices to be followed in assessing the relative needs of the very diverse local government regions throughout the Australian States. 
There are very distinguished people on the Grants Commission. The  chairman  is  Sir Leslie  Melville, K.B.E., whose term of appointment is for 3 years ending on 30 September 1 974.  Mr W.  R. Lane has continued to serve on the Commission.  Sir John  Goodsell, C.M.G., was appointed to replace  Mr H.  J. Goodes, C.B.E. These are the people to whom  Senator Greenwood  referred as 'these bureaucrats'. This is an autonomous body. What I have said illustrates the degree and the depth of political depravity that can be plumbed by people in order to try to fool the electors of this country into believing that this is a sinister Government.  Senator Greenwood  is piqued because he is no longer Attorney-General, the man born to rule, the young pretender who was the big dark horse who was coming in to dominate the Parliament. He found that the people judged that his Government was inadequate. He now finds himself in Opposition and having to justify his political existence. Those who read history will judge after reading some of the clap-trap that he uttered tonight and comparing it with the events of history.  Senator Greenwood  's time passes by. When he looks back I wonder whether his cheeks will be as pink as his shirt. He must become red-faced after sitting down and contemplating what he has tried to push out tonight for pure political propaganda purposes. 

 Senator Greenwood has accused very great citizens of being Government dominated bureaucrats. One would think that he did not have close experience of some of these very distinguished members of the Australian Public Service. I resent some of the charges which  Senator Greenwood  has made against the Public Service. Its members are dedicated people who are politically neutral. They are carrying out a job in the interests of the people of Australia. They must feel insulted when a supposedly responsible man with a classic educational background tries, for passing momentary political advantage, to degrade them. I speak firstly in their defence and secondly in defence of the right of a government which has a mandate from the people to be able to ask the people to judge. In this legislation we are doing no more or no less.  Senator Greenwood  said that we will put the dark hand or the dead hand of bureaucracy on local government. We are saying to the people: 'Do you want us to carry out the mandate which you gave us? We need constitutional power to do it. We are asking you at the same time that we are having a Senate election, so we can minimise the costs involved in holding the referenda. We are giving you the prerogative of making up your mind *. That is the democratic process. That is all that is involved in the legislation- no more, no less. We are asking the Senate to confirm the decision of the House of Representatives to allow the people to decide their destiny. 
One would think that the destiny of this nation is in the hands of this rag tag, rump, lame duck Opposition which, for a temporary period of a few months, is strutting the stage of power here and which thinks its word is more or less the ever lasting testament. We challenge this attitude of the Opposition, and we say that Opposition members know very well that if democracy prevails in this country so many of the old, worn out shibboleths, the old bone rattlers of the last century, the old horse and buggy mentality which has been astride this country for so long will be gone, that their days of philandering will be over and that there will be new era in Australia in which we are prepared to go straightforwardly to the people and say: 'In a democracy the majority of the people's will will prevail'. That is all that we are asking- to ask people at a referendum and to ask the Parliament to give people the right to judge. I do not think that  Senator Greenwood,  after the display which he gave tonight, could fool anyone who had recourse to logic. They would know that he could not find anything on which to base his argument and that he was merely bringing out the old shibboleths to frustrate and obstruct the course of government in this country. He knows very well that we asked the people for the mandate to do what we are doing. We are honouring our promise by putting this matter to the people on the first possible occasion after the 1972 election. At the forthcoming Senate election we wish to put it to them. If that is not a fair and democratic process, I have never known one. 
I rise especially to defend the members of the Grants Commission who, in my view, are dedicated men. They are quite acceptable to the State governments. As a matter of fact, the State governments, particularly in my home State of Tasmania, have every reason to be thankful to the Grants Commission. We in Tasmania have been treated most generously. We get per head from the Grants Commission nearly twice as much as the other States. So we have nothing to complain about the black hand of bureaucracy of the Grants Commission. We have every reason to admire  Sir Leslie  Melville and his other commissioners. This attack on them and on the Public Service generally ill-becomes a Queen's Counsel, an ex-Attorney-General and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. I believe that the people of Australia should see him in his true colours. 
Can the Minister for Primary Industry confirm reports of an outbreak of brucellosis hi cattle in Tasmania which necessitates quarantining and possible slaughter of affected cattle? If so, can he indicate what financial protection is afforded to owners of cattle affected by contagious abortion in the event of compulsory slaughter? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. I draw the Minister's attention to a report in the international publication 'Newsweek' that an American hire and drive organisation will introduce a fleet of electric cars powered by batteries which will provide 8 to 12 hours' driving from each recharge at speeds up to 60 miles an hour. In view of the world energy crisis, the high level of pollution from hydro-carbon exhausts in this country and the existence of hydro-electricity generation as we have it - 
-The Opposition has attacked the Government on the subject of interest rates. We are very conscious of the substance of the charge that it has made against us but we also are becoming accustomed to attacks of this nature on every front by the Opposition. Yet every step that the Government takes to curb inflation and to create conditions to reduce interest rates- action such as the reduction of tariffs right across the board- is condemned right along the line. We were condemned when we uplifted our exchange in relation to other currencies. This attack is just another of the snide attacks by the Opposition, having canvassed the length and breadth of Australia to try to deter the Australian Government from having a strong weapon, in the way of price controls, with which to fight inflation. 
We are faced today with one of the consequences of the inflationary situation that we inherited from the previous Government which had a long record of allowing interest rates to increase. I have in front of me a chart which shows that ever since the Opposition parties came to power in 1 949 there has been a progressive increase in interest rates. The increases were initiated by the government of the day. We saw between 1951 and 1961 a doubling of the interest rate on 2-year bonds from 2.18 per cent to 5.36 percent. From 1961 until 1 97 1 -the Opposition parties went out of office in 1972- the interest rate on the 2-year bonds was 6 per cent. That was an increase of nearly 2.5 times during the period that the Opposition parties were in government. 
The same situation applies in relation to bank overdrafts. While the previous Government was in office the interest rate on bank overdrafts increased from 4.5 per cent in 1950 to 8.25 per cent in 1 970. This group of people which is attacking us now built up the momentum that we are trying to come to grips with at the present time. We hear the Opposition lamenting the existence of inflation and virtually in the same breath condemning all the measures taken by this Government to come to grips with it. What is worse still, neither  Senator Cotton  nor any of his colleagues who sit beside him and behind him ever put forward any constructive proposal that could assist in coming to grips with this problem. It is our view that changes in interest rates are a legitimate instrument of economic policy. Increases in interest rates, as I have already pointed out, were part of the fiscal policy of Treasurers throughout the last 20 years. In 1970-1 did not refer to that particular yearbank interest rates and long term bond rates were increased. The long term bond rates were increased by 1 per cent- from 6 per cent to 7 per cent- which proportionately was a considerable jump. In answering a question relating to the increase in bank interest rates the then Treasurer,  Mr Bury,  had this to say: 
The demand for money is extremely strong. I would expect this rise in interest rates to weaken the demand. 
I interpolate there that  Mr Bury  was having the same problems that we are having. He feared the continuation and expansion of the inflationary influences in the economy. He realised that the increase in interest rates would tend to weaken demand. We are using this measure as one of the weapons with which to attack this most serious situation of inflation which exists here. In his answer  Mr Bury  continued: 
But, above all. I would expect this increase to serve as a general signal and warning to the whole business and financial community that we are straining our resources and that it is not possible to extract a quart from a pint pot. This is its main purpose. Certainly, it will have the effect of dampening down some new activity at a time when the economy cannot stand it. 
I believe 4that the approach taken by the then Treasurer was a reasonable one. What he said at that time is almost word for word what the present Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  has put forward as an explanation of the present situation. When the Government increased interest rates in September 1973 it did so as part of a broad antiinflation program. I would like to remind the Senate once again that we appealed to the people of Australia to assist us by giving us control over prices. There was no reciprocity from the States and no attempt by the States to assist us in this battle. So we have had to find alternative methods of dealing with it. When interest rates were increased in September 1973 the Prime Minister (  Mr Whitlam  ) said:  inflation must be fought on all fronts. There is no panacea; no simple solution achievable through one line of policy. But the fact that there is no simple solution to inflation does not mean that we can just throw up our hands in the face  of it.  On the contrary, we have to tackle it head on. 
The tackling of inflation head on is a matter of trying to reduce some of the head of pressure that has built up over the years. I have been able to demostrate that this pressure has been building up over the last 20 years and increased in momentum particularly in the two or three years before we came into office. We cannot be accused of not facing up to our problems squarely and acting decisively. As a matter of fact, the argument that we are acting too decisively and facing our problems too squarely had been one of the weapons used to attack us in the electorate and in the Press. Nevertheless, if one believes in one's cause and has confidence that what one is doing is right, I am quite certain that the people of Australia will accept that what we are doing is in their interests. 
The problem which the increase in interest rates was designed to cope with was in reality another legacy of the inaction of the previous Government. A necessary pre-condition to slowing inflation is curbing the rate of growth in the money supply. During 1972-73, before we came into power, the money supply increased by 26 per cent, having increased by no less than 1 7 per cent in the first half of that financial year. The present figures show that we cut back heavily the increase in the money supply in the second half of that financial year and we did so by means of the revaluation of December 1973 and the consequential effects on the excessive external surplus and the December 1972 and February 1973 actions to curb capital inflow. The need for these measures had been apparent for a long time but the previous Government had lacked the courage  to  implement them. In addition, there were calls to the statutory reserve deposits of the trading banks in April and August 1973. The Treasurer and his advisers felt that these measures should be taken as part of the battle against inflation. The domestic deficit was cut back in our last Budget from $2 15m in 1972-73 to an estimated $ 162m this financial year. This is another weapon being used in the battle against inflation. 
Despite the fact that we have taken all these measures, liquidity remained excessively high, due mainly to the unrestrained increase in 1972. The prospective increase in the money supply, although well below that in 1972-73, remained too large, given the buoyancy of demand and the growing full employment economy. We have critics who would have us put pressure on the situation by throwing people out of work. But the members of my Party and of the Government are proud of the fact that people can obtain useful employment in this country, that business statistics show a boom in nearly every direction and that company profits are high. We have been favoured by nature with good seasons. If we can come to grips with and stabilise this inflationary process this country will be on the pig's back. One contributing factor to the excessive increase in the money supply- the external surplus- has been dealt with determinedly by this Government, as I pointed out, by means of our tariff and exchange policy and our lifting of the value of our dollar in relation to other currencies. 
-Could the Leader of the Government in the Senate set up a register for the purpose of keeping the Senate informed of which parties are represented in the Senate? Would provisions be included in the register that would identify the big 'Ls', the little 'ls', the trendy 'ls', and the flaming 'ls', who would be described as the red '1' element? Would a call of the Senate be made to identify the National Liberals, the National Alliance, the National Party of Australia, the Liberal Party, the Country Party and the Democratic Labor Party? I conclude by asking whether the Leader of the Government could give details to the Senate of the record of this conglomerate of parties during the present session by showing the degree of obstruction being practised in the Senate. 
It might be fair enough to remind the Senate that the Government has not done any business in this Senate since yesterday afternoon. We had a debate on an urgency motion which continued until 9 o 'clock last night. 
I think the honourable senator was a guest at the courtesy luncheon held in honour of a visiting head of state, as were most other honourable senators. Man does not live by bread alone. These courtesies that we extend to leaders of other countries have been a tradition and I hope that this will continue in the best interests of this country and of this Parliament. I have no excuses to make about the person who was our guest, the quality of the philosophy that he was able to expound at that luncheon, or the general tone of what I regard as an interparliamentary activity. 
I just want to stress the point that no Government business has been done in this Senate since Tuesday. As I have pointed out, there was a debate on an urgency motion which continued until 9 o'clock last night. We had the advantage- I suppose it could be called that by the Oppositionof speaking on the first reading of Appropriation Bill (No. 3) 1973-74 about things which were relevant and things which were irrelevant to the provisions of that Bill. That debate went on until 11 o'clock. Yesterday, of course, was broadcasting day for the Senate. Today we gained an additional minute's sitting time due to the important result of the urgency motion. We changed the sitting time for today from 1 1 a.m. to 10.59 a.m. When question time was completed today we went on to non-government business, namely, a Bill introduced by  Senator Drake-Brockman.  We adjourned for lunch. Since resuming we have been more or less having an exercise in verbosity of the most extreme kind. If  Senator Greenwood  attempted to admonish members of the Government Party or the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Murphy),  we can only assume either that he was being facetious or that he had some other motive that was not accepted by us on this side. 
I just want to make mention of the cheap jibes that  Senator McManus  made about the responsibilities of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  as a Prime Minister in this time of world convulsion and future shock. He has had to go around the boundary fences which were in need of repair after such a long period during which our defences were neglected. Our relationships with our neighbours were such that they had fallen through. I would go so far as to say that our Prime Minister, as Prime Minister and during the time that he was Foreign Minister as well as Prime Minister, has done more to have Australia recognised as a country in its own right, with its own mind, its own nationhood and its own destiny, than any other man in the history of this Commonwealth. The days of the old tag along and the obsequiousness of being tied to the apron strings of the mother country and all the guff that went on about that have gone. When the cards were laid on the table all that we seemed to be any good for was to supply the raw materials for the shopkeepers and the raw manpower for their wars. 
I shall be very brief. If I correctly recall what  Senator Poyser  said the other night, he drew the attention of the Senate to what to me was an example of what a private company can do to a person's livelihood. He referred to a man who has been associated with an insurance company. Because that man declared himself as belonging to a political party and exercised his democratic right to stand as a candidate, something which every man of the required age and qualifications is entitled to do in Australia, he was treated in a cavalier manner by the company. The company said: 'Bring your book down and bring the car down and you will be going back by train'. That is a most underhand way of treating a loyal employee. I gather that this man had done splendid work and that his figures were high. The company could not point to anything against him in relation to the efficiency of his work and the contribution he had made to his company's activities. This man was victimised by this organisation. 
I believe that any senator with any sense of justice would rise in his place and draw attention to this injustice. I think that Federation Insurance Ltd stands condemned for the attitude it took in this matter. I think it was of very great interest to the Senate to hear  Senator Webster  admit that this insurance company is able to make a profit of $ 1 m and is able to pay the Australian Country Party $30,000, $40,000 or $60,000 a year commission. Those figures are rather substantial. The honourable senator tells the general public that the cost of living is going higher. Insurance is part of the cost of living and it is part of the cost of inflation. The contradiction is that we see  Senator Webster  stand in this place and shed crocodile tears for one of his main political contributors who are participating in the inflationary push. 
I would like to add to  Senator McLaren's  words concerning  Senator Webster's  character. I would match  Senator Poyser  's character against that of  Senator Webster  at any time. I think that  Senator Webster,  having raised this matter, is morally obliged to go outside and publicly apologise to the people that he maligned and defamed in this chamber. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry. I refer to the concern that has been expressed in Tasmania that insufficient emphasis is placed on the potential of the Japanese market for Australian fruit, particularly Tasmanian apples. Will the Minister agree that the Australian Government is active in this area and, if so, what is it doing? 
Speakers on the Opposition side have grossly misrepresented the objects and purpose of the Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill 1 973. It is quite easy to understand their attitude because they are in a state of mind which illustrates a basic hatred of the Government of Australia today. Their attitude is one of jealousy and perhaps one of envy because they felt that they were bound to rule. They had 23 years in government and in a period of 1 8 months so many of their blatant, culpable sins have been exposed. It is because of this that we find the attitude that is continuing as a theme through every speech that we hear falling from the orifices in the faces of the honourable senators. We need no simplification of what this Bill is all about. It means what it says. The Government intends to set up an oil company. Earlier in our history a Labor Government set up an oil company, the Commonwealth Oil Refineries Ltd. This was one of the nuclei of the oil industry in Australia. It operated successfully but, of course, it became so efficient that it posed a threat to this hopeless diehard attitude of the old order of people who think that anything that is done by a government on behalf of the people is to be either thwarted or destroyed. 
No Opposition senator can deny that over a period of years this was their consistent policy. Although we are an island continent supplying tremendous amounts of the world's needs at present, through our raw materials, primary industries, mineral resources and the like, we have no international shipping line of any size that can carry these goods to our markets. It is a damning indictment of the previous Government of this country when we think that even Switzerland has its own shipping line, although it has no coastline at all. 
-Well, Tasmania did have a shipping line until a few weeks ago. It had an appointment with Davy Jones- but the matter is too serious to remark about it in that way. I want to stress the point that the object of this measure is that we will have a Government oil company which is capable of undertaking the full range of petroleum activities from the point of exploration to the point of distribution. 

 Senator Young spoke of the need to get capital or technical knowledge from abroad. I should like to refer to the report of the Senate Select Committee on Off-shore Petroleum Resources.  Senator Young  was  chairman  of the Committee during the final stages of its inquiries. It is a very valuable document because it puts in perspective the industry as we know it, from its early stages up to the present stage. I should like to remind honourable senators of one point because it is not widely known. Paragraph 3.25 states: 
Although permits were first awarded offshore in Australia in the early 1950s, it was not until 1956 that the first aeromagnetic survey was run over an Australian marine area. There had, however, been previous gravity surveys. This aeromagnetic survey was run by the Bureau of Mineral Resources over the Gippsland Shelf as an extension of a previous survey they had conducted on land. The results of the survey indicated that the young sedimentation known to be on-shore extended and deepened on the Continental shelf. 
We did not have to send overseas to have these surveys carried out. The Bureau of Mineral Resources was able to conduct these aeromagnetic surveys. The information was readily available to the Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited and it took up the lease in Bass Strait of 6 1 ,000 square miles. It was not content to take an amount which BHP could properly develop- it wanted the lot. It looked overseas seeking in the first place  Mr Lewis  Weeks who had experience in the United States of America. Quite rightly it wanted  Mr Weeks  because the United States of America had gone into off-shore drilling and had been very successful. Therefore the calling of  Mr Weeks  was a logical sequence to follow up the already prepared data of the Bureau of Mineral 
Resources. The claim of  Senator Young  that we had to send overseas for technical knowledge is really a reflection on the calibre of our own technical people in the Bureau of Mineral Resources.  Senator Young  knows that quite well and that this information was handed to BHP on a plate. Paragraph 3.26 states: 
In 1959, the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd (BHP) which had leases in the Sydney Basin, called in Lewis Weeks. . . to advise it of the potential of these areas.  Mr Weeks  advised BHP to direct exploratory activities to the off-shore areas of Victoria. A subsidiary of BHP, Haematite- now called Hematite- Exploration Pty Ltd, took up, in 1960, permits in off-shore areas of some 66,000 square miles in extent, from the South Australian, Tasmanian and Victorian Governments. 
That is the whole of the Bass Strait area. 
The Tasmanian Government was about as well informed as the present Opposition was when it set up the Senate Select Committee on Off-Shore Petroleum Resources. It wanted to know more about it. The legislation was rushed through this Parliament, as the honourable senator well remembers. He was so concerned about it that he refused to support his own Party until it gave a guarantee that it would set up this Committee. The honourable senator was instrumental in having it set up. I believe he did a very good service to the nation by having it set up. It informed quite a number of people including  Senator Wright  and myself, of the nature of the enormous natural resources that Australia has discovered and is still capable of discovering. Exploration increased and in 1960 the associated group found the first of many small natural gas fields in the Roma area. Of course, it is claimed that we need overseas capital and technical knowledge. We admit that this country is in the early stages of the development of the technique of off-shore exploration and exploitation. Even now, after seven or eight years operation, the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd, EssoBHP, or Hematite Petroleum Pty Ltdwhichever name one likes to use- is increasing its capacity each year. It has gone into the supply of domestic gas and it is producing, I understand, up to 68 per cent of Australia 's needs in crude oil. 
Some people say that it is unfortunate that we do not have our own supplies of the heavy crudes in order to supply the lower cracking grades of oil for the production of bitumen and other heavy types of products which come from the bottom of the barrel, so to speak. But we also are very fortunate in that the crude oil which has already been discovered in this country is of very high gravity. The bulk of it goes into the production of the more valuable fuels such as petroleum for use in automobiles, aircraft, diesel engines and the like. So really we are very fortunate in that we are well endowed with this high gravity oil. The argument used by the Opposition to the effect that we want to socialise the oil industry is contradicted by the actions taken in other countries. The British Government has participated very actively in the economic development of the British Petroleum Co. Ltd. 
I have described Opposition senators as the last of the diehards, and the honourable senator would be the last of the last of them. 
Yes, the honourable senator should join  Senator Hannan  's Party, the non-trendy party. If he had a short back and sides haircut he would fit into it very well. 
The Opposition is trying to make the point that we are wanting to socialise the industry. But the governments of Canada, France, Italy, Norway, the Argentine, Brazil, Mexico, South Africa, Iran, Iraq, India, Japan, Indonesia and New Zealand all have taken an active part in the development of their natural resources and set up instrumentalities similar in varying degrees to the one that is proposed to be established by the legislation currently before the Senate. We know also that the Philippines Government, in conjunction with an Australian company, has recently set up a government agency which is exploring the off-shore areas of the Philippines. 
Although we hear so often this phobia about the Government owning and operating an enterprise, we never hear an open attack made on the Commonwealth Banking Corporation. I suppose one could describe it as a socialist endeavour if one wanted to, but it forms a very important part of the economic and financial life of this nation. I cannot imagine what Australia would be like without the Commonwealth Banking Corporation and its various activities. The Australian National Airlines Commission or Trans-Australia Airlines has provided to the Australian people a service which I suppose is equal to that provided by any other airline in the world. The same can be said of Qantas Airways 
Ltd. If the Opposition wants to condemn the proposal to set up the Petroleum and Minerals Authority, to be consistent it should condemn those organisations as representing creeping socialism. It is just incomprehensible that a body of people who would appear to be normal can continually have this hysteria about creeping socialism. The members of that body use the facilities provided. I heard  Senator J.  C. Superstar-  Senator John  Carrick- speak this afternoon about big sleazy black cars. But  Senator Carrick  uses the black cars and it is hypocrisy for members of the Opposition to condemn the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  or some of the Ministers for using black cars.  Senator Carrick  uses them himself He does not get a taxi when he is entitled to use a black car. This is the type of inconsistency that I see being put forward all the time by members of the Opposition. 
I suppose that the Bureau of Mineral Resources could be called a socialist government enterprise; but, after all, it is a highly efficient enterprise. If proper credit were paid to the Bureau for the amount of work it does and the subsidies that have been provided to the oil industry in its development the Bureau would be recognised to a much greater extent than it has been. The Bureau of Mineral Resources has gathered a great deal of information, but we never hear the Opposition spokesmen for the private enterprise entrepreneurs condemning it as being a socialist enterprise, because it has been there as the milch cow for the private companies. They have been able to use the information that has been made available at great cost to the taxpayers of Australia. 
One should look also at the subsidies that the previous Government paid down through the years to the oil companies without the Australian Government having one penn'orth of interest in any of those leases or those areas for off-shore exploration. It is a living disgrace to the previous Government that all that money was expendedI would say that it was expended at the rate of $ 10m or $ 12m a year over quite a number of years to which I could refer- without any equity being held by the Australian Government in those areas on which this money was expended. Our policy has been stated quite clearly. I heard  Senator Carrick  say that we do not have a mandate to introduce this type of legislation. I proposed to refer to what the Prime Minister has stated repeatedly and reiterated recently on his return from a visit to Japan. He said: 
My Government has the firm policy objective of promoting Australian control of Australian resources and industries. 
We also want to achieve the highest possible level of Australian ownership of our resources and industries. By the phrase 'the highest possible level of Australian ownership' we mean the highest Australian equity that can be achieved in negotiations, project by project, that are fair and reasonable to both parties and are within the capacity of our own savings to support. However in some special energy cases, which I shall mention shortly, we do have a particular objective of 100 per cent Australian ownership. 
I do not think any Opposition senator could go back to his State and criticise that objective, namely, that Australia should own its own resources, should develop its own resources, and should have control of the priorities in respect of its own resources. We only have to refer to the recent Middle East situation and the energy crisis that is stalking the whole world today to realise the position in which we would have been had we been completely reliant on the Middle East for our oil. On the other hand, what a great advantage it has been to Australian industry and to Australian users of petroleum products to have this infant industry here . Monopolisation of the areas around the coastline by so few companies indicates that the policies supported by the previous Government need to be altered. This legislation that we propose does just that. We have no compunction whatsoever in presenting this proposition to the Parliament and to the people of Australia for not only will it engender more respect for us as a nation and preserve for us the right to get all the advantages possible by the proper organised development of our resources, but we will be able to develop the capacity to defend ourselves. Consider the situation that existed under previous governments when Australia was so reliant on the importation of so many necessities, particularly oil. Any policy that extends and widens our capacity to provide for ourselves and to make certain that we get the full benefit of our resources should have the support of every decent Australian. I commend  Senator Cant  for the speech that he made in this debate and for the succinct and articulate way that he put this whole matter on the line here in the Senate today. There can be no argument against what he said as being factual and presenting the case as it is. 
I would like to give an idea of one of the motives behind the thinking on this side of the Senate. The foreign oil companies have had a feather bedded ride through the natural resources of Australia over a long period of years. We have seen in the dispute in Sydney in the last few days how they were prepared to hold the people of Sydney to ransom and the power which they had to do it. Every one of the oil companies is foreign- mainly United States- owned. They are all giant concerns. Mobil is 100 per cent 
United States owned; it is owned by the Standard Oil Co. of New Jersey. Ampol, the company which claims to be fully Australian owned, is in fact owned to 12 per cent of its shares by Caltex which in turn is owned by Standard Oil and the Texas Oil Corporation of New York. Caltex is 100 per cent United States owned. Esso is 100 per cent United States owned- by Standard Oil. Amoco is 100 per cent United States owned; Shell is 100 per cent owned by English and Dutch interests; BP- British Petroleum- is 100 per cent English owned; and 35 per cent of the shares of H. C. Sleigh are owned by Caltex which is 100 per cent United States owned. Total is owned by French and United States interests. 
I give the profits of just a few of these companies. In 1971 Mobil made $12.2m, Caltex $6.3m, BP $5m and Shell $27m. This is an illustration of the degree to which our oil industry is in the hands of overseas ownership. 
1 have some evidence here about the people of XL and the way they were treated when they tried to set up an independent company in opposition to these giants. Their treatment was absolutely scandalous, yet the newspapers of this country ignored evidence that was given on oath before the Committee and never refuted. It is an indication of the lengths to which these companies will go to crush competition. I do not think there is any shadow of doubt that the same effort to stifle this legislation is coming through the mouths of many people from these multitudinous conglomeration of parties that are springing up all over the country to try to discredit the present Australian Government. There is nothing wrong with this legislation. We believe it can assist companies that are undertaking any of the activities that the proposed petroleum and minerals authority can undertake. Not only will the Bill establish this petroleum and minerals authority but it will also, in my view, set a pattern for and give a lead to the development of other Australian resources for the Australian people in the interests of Australia. I support the Bill. 
Can the AttorneyGeneral confirm a statement which appeared in the Press relating to the distinction associated with the success of Sergeant Haswell of the Commonwealth Police Force in graduating from the Federal Bureau of Investigation Academy in the United States? Will the Attorney-General inform the Senate of any arrangements that exist for Australian police officers to attend this Academy, thus widening the scope of their experience? 
I ask the AttorneyGeneral: In view of the wide public interest in the Government's policy to make legal aid available to all sections of the community, what are the proposed locations for the establishment of Australian legal aid offices in the State of Tasmania and, if possible, in every State? 
-The proposition before the Senate is a simple one. It is that the question be referred to the High Court of Australia sitting as a Court of Disputed Returns, as to whether, and if so when, a vacancy has happened in the Senate in the representation of Queensland in connection with the place of Vincent Clair Gair. We are debating this issue at a time when the whole of the exercise can be neutralised by other events. This will become part of history. I think that some of the exaggerated statements that have been made by members of the Opposition to bolster up their very weak case will reflect upon them very badly in the view of historians in as much as they are contradictory of statements that have been made previously in the Senate by people such as  Senator Greenwood.  I think that it is worth repeating the attitude of  Senator Greenwood,  as stated on 24 August 1971, when he was Attorney-General:  1 would have thought that where a Senator's constitutional right to sit in this chamber is conferred by the Constitution, the High Court is the appropriate body charged by the Constitution with the duties of interpretation. It would be an unreal situation if this Parliament or any one House of the Parliament were to decide whether or not a senator had the qualifications to remain in this chamber, I believe it would be mischievous to embark upon an inquiry in the assumption that this Parliament or this chamber does have the power. 
This is the proposition that we are debating this afternoon. Because of the charges that have been made, we had  Senator Wright  talking about the Crimes Act and we have heard him state that a crime has been committed. We have heard  Senator Drake-Brockman  claim that the Government has been dishonest in the case. I think that it is a logical proposition that this matter be taken away from the heat of political argument in the Senate and properly investigated by the High Court.  Senator Drake-Brockmen  said: 'Who can say that tomorrow or next year a member of Parliament may not be similarly manipulated?' All of these descriptions of the events leading up to this debate are highly accusative and would much more properly be dealt with by the High Court of Australia sitting as the Court of Disputed Returns. 
I personally would like the matter to go before the Court of Disputed Returns because there I would be able to give on oath certain evidence in relation to other matters leading up to and surrounding this issue and the charges which have been made about manipulation. I would be able to tell the Court that before the Senate rose for the Christmas recess  Senator Gair  and I had our first conversation for a long period of time about an operation for dupretrens contracture that he was to have on his hand. He was advised by his doctor to consult me because I have had a series of operations on my hand for this particular complaint.  Senator Gair  approached me and said: What was the result of your operation?' We exchanged views on the matter. When  Senator Gair  returned to the Parliament after the recess, which was on 28 February when  Her  Majesty opened the Parliament, I met him in the little reception room near the members' bar. I said to him: 'How is your hand progressing?' I gave him some advice that was given to me, about how to exercise his hand so that he used the muscles and how to deal with any adhesions that might result from this. As a matter of fact, this was an unusual conversation because of the very rare occasions on which I have ever spoken to  Senator Gair. 
On 5 March the Senate elected its  Chairman  of Committees. After the election took place  Senator Gair  came up to me and said 'I voted for you as  Chairman  of Committees', and he proceeded to tell me what a bunch of drongoes were in his Party, including  Senator Little  who had voted for  Senator Webster,  and thus voted against his own interests. 
He did not have much of an opinion of the honourable senator. He felt that if the honourable senator had any political nous he would not, by his vote, have supported the publicity that was given in his own State against his own personal interests. I understand that  Senator Gair  had tried to persuade  Senator Little  individually and the members of the Democratic Labor Party collectively of the advantages or disadvantages of their intended vote. However, after this tirade by  Senator Gair  against his own erstwhile colleagues I said to him: 'You know, they have kicked you into the back benches. They have given you a pretty rough trot. Why do not you and  Mrs Gair  go for a holiday? 

 - Mr President, I said earlier that I am prepared to go before the Court of Disputed Returns and swear to this. I would like this matter to go to the High Court.  Senator Little  has just described me as Uriah Heap, and I think he should be asked to withdraw that. 
-Is the Leader of the Government in the Senate aware that the  President  of the United States of America has initiated measures to pay $2 an hour to all workers who are on the minimum wage in the United States? As this will amount to an increase to $80 a week in workers' wages in the United States and will be paid, amongst others, by the Shell oil company, does this not show up in true perspective how the Shell oil company would hold the people of Australia to ransom because of its politically biased attitude to just wages for its employees? 
May I ask a supplementary question,  Mr President? 
I present a report from the Joint Committee on Prices on import prices and effects of currency changes, and seek leave to have a brief statement incorporated in Hansard. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I refer to a public assertion by  Senator Kane,  the General Secretary of the Australian Democratic Labor Party, that  Senator Murphy  concealed the fact for many days that an ambassador was sitting in the Senate and the Senate was deprived of valid representation from Queensland. I ask  Senator Murphy:  Is it not a fact that former  Senator Gair  told  Senator Kane,  as Secretary of the Democratic Labor Party, that he had accepted the post of ambassador on Friday, 29 March, a week before the Senate resumed on 2 April and before the former  Senator came  into the Senate? Why is  Senator Kane  afraid to tell the Senate the facts which I have outlined and which he knows to be the truth? 
Honourable senators, I wish to thank all of you for the very great honour that you have conferred upon me. I hope that I will be able to fill the position in accordance with traditions and with impartiality so that the Senate can fulfil its true function for the good of Australia. I thank you again. 

 Senator Sir MAGNUS CORMACK (Victoria)  Mr President,  I take this first opportunity to offer my congratulations to you. I know that in the office to which you have been elected you will follow all the traditions which I am sure you have absorbed in the many years that you have spent in the Senate. As all honourable senators would expect, in accordance with practice, I, as the ex-President, will afford you all my support and the benefit of the knowledge that I gained during my days in the chair. Once more I extend to you my heartiest congratulations. 

 -Mr Clerk, in submitting myself to the will of the Senate I feel constrained to make a few observations on the occasion of the dissolution of the Parliament when I was the Presiding Officer in the Senate. I was sworn in as  President  of the Senate in August 1974, and the following months were possibly the most turbulent in the history of the Senate. No vote of no confidence in me as  President  of the Senate was taken during that period. On 1 1 November 1975, without any consultation whatever from the Governor-General or the Chief Justice of Australia or  Mr Ellicott  or other people associated with the events - 
The coup, the overthrow of a properly elected government, I adjourned the Senate at 20 minutes past two until the ringing of the bells. There was no further sitting of the Senate. The Senate was dismissed summarily. There was no information given to the then Leader of the Government in the Senate and none given by the then Leader of the Opposition in the Senate who was well aware of the whole of the coup. The practice of State Premiers substituting people of a Party different from that of the senators those people replace and so affecting the balance of power in this chamber has altered the whole concept of proportional representation. It is making a sham and a farce of the method of election to this chamber. 
The method employed has caused me very great concern. The Senate has been made a pawn in a premeditated and calculated manipulation by forces outside this Senate. The sequence of events over a period was such that this Senate could act as a House of review; it could act as a States' House. But that has now been set aside. The Senate now, as has been proved, can be manipulated to the point that it no longer can serve its proper purpose. 
The fact that we had today as a  Deputy  of the Governor-General,  Sir Garfield  Barwick who consulted with the Governor-General and with  Mr Ellicott  on these matters, without notifying the Senate and without notifying the  President  of the Senate, was to me a direct insult to the Chair in this chamber. I hope that the incoming  President  will be aware of these discourtesies and will take every step to persuade the Senate to make the necessary provisions so that what happened will not be allowed to happen again. I submit myself to the will of the Senate. 
I feel it would be remiss of the Senate to overlook a motion of condolence that has been moved in another place this day on the death of the Premier of the People's Republic of China, Chou En-lai. It is of great importance to us as a part of this hemisphere that we pay diplomatic tribute to this great person who has gone into history on this occasion of great national grief for the 800 million people of his country with whom he shared their march into liberation from domination by colonial people in other parts of the world. I am advised that a motion on this matter will be moved in the Senate tomorrow. I had not been previously advised of this. I knew that a motion had been moved in another place and I wanted personally to pay this tribute to the great leader of this very fine race of people, the 
Chinese people, and share in their grief at the loss of their leader. I hope that the Australian people will realise in future how important it is for us to have good diplomatic relations with these people as human beings on the march forward to a great future after the liberation of their nation from the domination and surveillance that it has suffered over the centuries. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Administrative Services, arises out of the visits overseas by the royal commission on the maritime industry and, in particular, its 2 visits to Japan. Has Commissioner Summers yet tendered his report to the Governor-General on the terms of reference dealing with port administration and development? Because this aspect of the Commissioner's report is of special significance to Tasmania, I ask: When does the Minister expect to be able to make it public? 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Administrative Services. Shortly after the December election the Prime Minister advised the Australian Journalists Association that journalists formerly employed in the Department of the Media need not be concerned about their future with the Public Service. Is it a fact that, following the Minister's decision to abolish the Australian Government Liaison Service, several journalists in that section of the Department are very much concerned that they will lose their jobs, particularly those journalists operating from the various State offices? Is the 
Minister prepared to reaffirm the Prime Minister's undertaking to the Australian Journalists Association and, in particular, will he undertake that people who have been granted permanent status will not be placed on the Public Service list of unattached officers? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Is the Minister aware that in the United States people of the Mormon persuasion who do not smoke or drink but who have several wives are less susceptible to cancer than those who indulge, more or less, in these pleasures? Will the Minister make a recommendation to the Australian Broadcasting Control Board that, as an alternative to the present slogan, these facts be used: 'Medical authorities advise that smoking, drinking and monogomy are health hazards'. 
-I am very pleased that this report has been brought down. I would like to remind some of the new honourable senators that this report was commissioned in 1973 by the Labor Government. The Commission has fulfilled its terms of reference to report on the maritime industry. The investigations took the Commission as far abroad as Japan on 2 occasions. I hope that the report contains a comprehensive outline of the needs of Australian ports. However, I was very disappointed to hear the other day that the report excludes Tasmanian ports. That area has been covered by the Royal Commission on Tasmanian Transport under Commissioner Nimmo. He will be reporting shortly and his report is looked forward to very eagerly by Tasmanian people because of the general shipping and port position in that State. I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted;-debate adjourned. 
I present the following petition from 48 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That whereas the natural environment of Fraser Island is so outstanding that it should be indentified as part of the World Natural Heritage, and whereas the Island should be conserved for the enjoyment of this and future generations. 
Your petitioners humbly pray that the members, in Parliament assembled, will take the most urgent steps to ensure: 
That the Australian Government uses its constitutional powers to prohibit the export of any mineral sands from Fraser Island, and 
That the Australian Government uses its constitutional authority to assist the Queensland Government and any other properly constituted body to develop and conserve the recreational, educational and scientific potentials of the natural environment of Fraser Island for the long term benefit of the people of Australia. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I ask the Minister representing the Attorney-General: Will he ascertain from the Attorney-General how information came to him that foreign money had entered Australia by way of 2 Iraqis in breach of the Australian currency regulations, which gave rise to his orders for police diaries to be seized and to the role of the Australian Police being seriously queried? Does the Attorney-General give approval to any vindictive newspaper report, which evidently gives newspapers the right to defame an Australian citizen by a sensational news story and then have it given credence by the action taken by the Attorney-General? Finally, is the Attorney-General aware that his action is viewed by Australian people as one of the most blatant, arrogant and neo-Gestapo acts of aggression against civil rights since the days of Hitler's Germany and that the precedent now established should not be repeated? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. By way of preface I refer him to a question in the following terms which was asked of him by  Senator Douglas  McClelland yesterday: 
Who ordered the impounding by Commonwealth Police of the diaries of the 5 Commonwealth policemen who were the bodyguards of the former Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam?  Who ordered the interrogation last Friday by Commonwealth Police of executives of the Australian advertising agency, Mullins, Clarke and Ralph? What is the nature of any report that has been made to him as Minister responsible for the administration of the Commonwealth Police Force? 
The Leader of the Government in the Senate in his reply, amongst a lot of chin-waffle, said that the Attorney-General had authorised an investigation to be made in view of allegations in the Press and because to use his words, 'questions have arisen whether a serious breach of the Banking (Foreign Exchange) Regulations may have been committed or attempted'. Will the Leader of the Government in the Senate ascertain how information came to the AttorneyGeneral that foreign money had been brought to Australia by 2 Iraqis in breach of regulations, and whether the Attorney-General had put his seal of approval on any report from a so-called London correspondent who was, in fact, Rupert Murdoch? Is this country to continue to be run with governments being made and broken, and men being made and broken, by snide, slick innuendoes of a lying, perjuring pimp- Rupert Murdoch? 
I ask this question of you,  Mr President.  I refer to standing order 425 which states: 
Any  Senator may  rise to speak 'To Order,' or upon a matter of Privilege which has arisen since the last sitting of the Senate. 

 Mr President, I seek your earnest consideration and determination in relation to complaints by members in both Houses of the Parliament of the intrusion of police into the public and private lives of members which are, in any case, under constant scrutiny by the media, .or the Press. I refer to the ruling of your colleague and copresiding officer in another place,  Mr Speaker,  that a member has no right of access to the Privileges Committees of the Parliament for redress and protection from this practice. I would like you,  Mr President,  at your leisure to state whether you agree with the ruling of your colleague in the other place. As standing order 427 on breach of privilege protects a senator against newspaper assault on his civil and parliamentary rights, should not a senator have similar access to the Privileges Committee in the matter of the intrusion of the police and this type of assault on him in exercising his duties and functions as a member of this Parliament? 
-The Opposition sees the recommendation that the entitlements of members of parliament be referred to the Remuneration Tribunal as being a very positive and constructive move. I want to add my protest to that of  Senator Wood.  I take exception to the arbitrary methods used by this Government to take away quite a few of the entitlements of members of Parliament without referring the matter to the Tribunal. The Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers)  said that some of the entitlements were granted by the Minister for Administrative Services or by executive action. This is true. This has been the practice since Federation. The Minister or the Executive Council saw the need for entitlements to be granted. Previously, there was no Tribunal. 
It has been my experience over a longer period than that for which  Senator Wood  has been here to see every recommendation which has ever been brought into the Senate or into the House of Representatives opposed by people who did not understand the nature of a parliamentarian's expenses or his work. Such people have been seeking headlines. Ever since a parliamentarian has been receiving 750 I have seen people get up and say that parliamentarians were getting too much. Others have said the time was wrong, that salaries should not be mentioned, and that the newspapers would make headlines out of the matter. I am certain that if the people of that ilk had had their way members would still be receiving 750 a year. The situation got to the stage where people were joking about some of the old stagers who were perennial opposers. One man was suspected of having a granddaughter named Charity because he would say: 'I will take it, but I will give to to charity'. One finds that after these people oppose a measure they are the first to go along and put their hand out. 
That is right. The same thing applies now to air travel. I think it is an insult to members of Parliament that they have to be cramped up, especially to those who travel long distances. It is the responsibility of the nation and of the people to supply facilities for their members to bring them to Parliament. Members of Parliament should be equal to any other member in the community. They should not be treated like second-class citizens. Honourable senators from Western Australia, Queensland and to a certain extent from Tasmania- we do not have connecting servicesare cramped up. All the aircraft should be called Friendships, because we are almost sitting on one another's laps in some of the cramped economy seats. There is very close friendship but it is not very good for the comfort and relaxation which members should have on their travels. Travelling economy class may have saved some small amount of money but it did not gain anything in upholding and maintaining the prestige of members of Parliament. 
Some members objected very strongly to this treatment from the Government. They paid the difference so that they could travel first class. That is fair enough. I suppose everyone could pay the difference, but why should they? Whenever business organisation in the community requires its employees, directors or any of the people associated with it in an advisory capacity to travel, it treats these people like ordinary citizens, like human beings, instead of second class citizens. We should be speaking out on behalf of some of the new honourable senators such as those from the Northern Territory. They certainly should be given first-class facilities. They should be given the proper food and not the rubbish which is handed out to the second-class passengers.  Senator Chaney  spoke about the sloppy pack which is pushed out to the passengers. 
The honourable senator has certainly made it as far as this business is concerned. The same remarks apply to transport. Most business organisations provide their employees with transport. Anyone would think it was a great privilege or honour to be able to get transport. It is as necessary today as soles on one's shoes. One just has to get from point A to point B. Of course, one can walk. I suppose one can even go on one 's hands and knees if pressed. I do not think that a big issue should be made of the use of such transport when one is engaged in parliamentary duties elsewhere or in Canberra. Transport facilities should be made available to members of Parliament when they are away from their own transport. Members of Parliament have their own methods of transport at home, but once they leave their homes to attend the Parliament they must have another form of transport and it should be made available to them. 
I turn now to the subject of superannuation. Some members of Parliament have been paying into the superannuation fund for members of Parliament for many years. For instance,  Senator Wood  has been paying into such a fund for 27 years. After a certain period he reached the maximum level but, like every other member of Parliament, he still continues to contribute to the fund. He is still making payments to the fund despite the fact that there is no accumulation of benefits after a certain point is reached. 
-Senator Wood pays $2,000 a year; that is true. These are matters that possibly are now the responsibility of the Tribunal but no consideration has been given to them because some people say: 'Do not get them from under the carpet. Let sleeping dogs lie. They concern only members of Parliament. They are expendable.' Members of Parliament are open to criticism. One can make headlines at the drop of a hat if one talks about improving the position of members of Parliament. 
It is possibly a good thing that this matter is being referred to the Tribunal. On the other hand when 3 1 March comes along many of the new senators will look aghast at the selfless people who are going to say that it is the wrong time or it is too much. I remember an incident that occurred when the Labor Caucus was discussing increasing the salary of members of Parliament from 1,000 a year to 1,500. One man stood up and moved an amendment that the new figure be 1,250. He said that it was unethical to take any more than that. The former  Speaker,  dear old Sol Rosevear, stood and said: 'You are the first person I have ever seen who could split his ethics'. He wanted to split the difference between 1,000 and 1,500 a year. Those sorts of things go on when the privileges and entitlements of members of Parliament are discussed. 
I want to put in a good word for all members of Parliament. Most of them work hard. The work that nearly all of them do is beyond expectations and the limits of their duties. They do a lot extra. I believe that such matters as their salaries, expenses and so on should be the last consideration of members of Parliament and is the last consideration of most members of Parliament. But I also believe that they should be at least placed on a level with any other executive in the community. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Administrative Services in his capacity as Minister responsible for the Commonwealth Police and follows a question asked previously by  Senator Douglas  McClelland. Is the Minister responsible for the Commonwealth Police? If he is, did he approve of two of his officers travelling at public expense to Singapore? Did the overseas visits committee of his Department give approval for that visit? Is it to be a practice of this Government that a Minister can delegate his ministerial responsibility for the staff under his control to another Minister? In view of the extent of the mistake made by the Attorney-General in relation to this matter, is the 
Minister in charge of the Commonwealth Police wiping his hands of the whole business? 
-Will the Minister for Social Security confirm or deny that officers of the Department of Social Security have asked social workers to advise the transfer of long term beneficiaries of the unemployment benefit to the invalid pension. If such a practice exists, does the Minister agree that it would be psychologically damaging to young people to be on an invalid pension instead of the unemployment benefit, particularly in decentralised rural areas where employment opportunities are limited? Is the aim of this exercise, if it is being practised, to lower unemployment figures which are rising rapidly as a result of the reckless cutting and slashing of employment opportunities by the Fraser razor gang? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources aware that the continuity of employment of those engaged in the production of iron ore pellets at the Savage River mine in the north-west of Tasmania is under threat because of the slump in demand for this type of iron ore by Japanese steel makers? Will the Minister for National Resources have a survey made of the present total exports of iron ore to Japan from all sources, including Western Australia, with a view to allocating a quota of Tasmanian iron ore adequate to keep the Savage River mine in operation? 
Before I deal with the measure now before the Senate, let me take up one point that was made by  Senator Messner  when he spoke about the decision to introduce a tax on the export of beef. Distortion of the truth by the media, especially by the Press, has been a subject of very much discussion in recent times. The extent of" the brainwashing of the public has been very difficult to estimate. The only redress that we on this side of the chamber have is to nail the lies as they are trotted out as facts. One of the lies that was perpetrated by those who now sit in Government and by their propagandists was the one about the imposition of a tax on the export of beef. Let me quote from the report of the Joint Committee on Prices in respect of its inquiry on the stabilisation of meat prices. This report was presented to the Parliament on 25 September 1973. That date is very significant as, at approximately the same time, the legislation with which this Bill deals was introduced into the Parliament. This was at a time when the price of beef had gone through the roof. 
At page 7 of this report we read: 
Meat prices increased by 24.3 per cent in the first seven months of 1 973 and the outlook without intervention is for continuing upward pressure on meat prices . . . 
Meat is the most important single sub-group in the consumer price index. During the first six months of 1973, the increase in meat prices accounted for 40 per cent of the increase in the total index. If meat prices had remained unchanged during the first half of 1973, the rise in the consumer price index would have been 3.3 per cent instead of 5.5 per cent rise which was experienced. 
Because of the importance of meat in householdexpenditure rapid price increases place great burdens on persons on low income, persons on fixed incomes, larger families and pensioners. 
We had this in the forefront of our minds when we were examining this situation. As  Senator Messner  will know, circumstances alter cases. The present situation of the beef industry is at the opposite end of the spectrum from what it was when the legislation imposing the levy on exported meat was introduced and when certain recommendations were sought by the Government through the inquiry by the Joint Committee on Prices. 
Amongst many recommendations, this one was made: 
Another way of diverting supplies to the local market is through the imposition of an export tax. Such a tax would reduce the relative attractiveness of the export market compared with the local market. Evidence was given - 
I interpolate here to say that the recommendations of the Committee followed substantial evidence presented by people who were trying to solve the problem created by the enormous local price of beef. It was $1.50 a pound. People were unable to afford to buy beef. People were turning to white meats. They were eating poultry. The importance of the broiler industry at that time rocketed because people were eating poultry rather than beef. Because of the tremendously high price of beef, the consumption of fish increased and the position of the fish industry improved. Because of the effect of the increases in the price of beef on the consumer price index, and therefore wages, the Joint Committee on Prices was asked to investigate what could be done. Despite the fact that some members of the then -Country Party presented a dissenting report, these were some of the facts which were elicited from the evidence that was presented: 
Evidence was given to Sub-committee. 'B' that an export tax does not present the same administrative difficulties as quantitative restrictions on exports but that legislative action would be required. 
This is the sentence. This is the actual observation that was made by the Committee. It was taken right out of context and used wrongly, unjustly and almost with malice against the Labor Party, to try to destroy us. 
I have a note here on one aspect. It has been of constant interest to me in the 28 years that I have been a senator that I have heard before the content of many speeches that are made. As yet, I have not done any congratulating of senators upon their speeches, because I have not spoken in the Address-in-Reply debate. However, any time when there is a debate on any subject appertaining to beef, mutton, lamb, pig meat or offal the National Country Party is like a broody chook. It ruffles up its feathers and clucks a little expecting the farmers and others in the country to run under its protective wing as though it were the only custodian of rural matters. We are supposed to stand off in silent adulation of the Country Party, 
Has the honourable senator ever grown anything in his life? I do not think he has. This is the thing about the Country Party. Half of its members are lawyers. I do not know what proportion of them are  Vh  percenters. When they charge both ways, going in and out, sometimes they are 12 percenters but they used to be called 2 1/2 percenters in my day. 
The interesting thing about this legislation before us is that the concession is not for the beef producer at all; it is for the exporter because the charge is payable by the exporter. It never gets back to the beef producer and I say to anyone who would try to put up that proposition to me: You show me where one cent of this concession given to the exporter goes back to the farmer'. It is a; bit like the superphosphate bounty. The superphosphate bounty goes to the manufacturer of superphosphate. We have tremendous phosphate deposits in Queensland but there is not enough big dough in it yet because many fanners cannot afford superphosphate. The big boys and the ones who have a good run with exporters on our limited markets can, but at this time most people cannot afford to use superphosphate whatever its cost. 
Let me turn to the cost of growing beef these days. If we subsidised the beef producers or paid the farmers wages it would not pay us to grow beef now because we just cannot sell it. It cost a nian who is closely associated with me $60 to grow vealers and he got only $30 on the market for them. People then' run around trying to blame the former Labor Government for that situation when what has happened is that the local market cannot absorb the increased production, and the Americans and the Japanese are not importing the same amount as they imported previously. As a consequence there is a glut on the market and whenever there is a glut there are depressed prices. 
I wanted to make a few comments about the apology that  Senator Scott  made for this legislation which provides a subsidy to exporters. Every one of us here will agree that hygiene of the highest standard possible in the slaughtering and presentation of food for human consumption is absolutely essential. For years we in this country got away with all sorts of methods of slaughter. I have killed cattle out in the paddock without even a windlass or gallows. I killed the beast on the ground, propped it up on one side and cut it down the other and then turned it over. This was done with all the remnants of cows, horses and other animals blowing around. The carcass was hoisted up and cut into quarters and then taken into the meat house. Then the stockmen, the boss and the others would say: 'This is beautiful beef. As a matter of fact, some of them very seldom tasted their own beef because if there was a straggler on the property it was always killed first. Sometimes we would hardly know what our own beef tasted like. It is a long way from that kind of preparation of beef to the standards that are expected these days with very intelligent and well trained inspectors inspecting every carcass. It is of no use for them to say: 'This is good enough'. On examination particularly in the United States, if any carelessness is found it is likely that the penalty will be that the whole consignment is condemned. This not only hits the hip pocket nerve but also is very bad for our reputation as an exporter. 
I have heard the point made so often over the years, and  Senator Scott  made it again, that it is a great compliment to the Country Party when we oppose it because it shows how well it stands up for the interests of the man on the land. I have been hearing this for so long. As  Senator Scott  said, for half a century the National Country Party by means of an interesting gerrymander has been able to keep its representation in the Parliament. It is sticking to that gerrymander very closely to make certain that there is no alteration to its representation. But what has happened to the people it is supposed to represent, the men on the land? The cycle has been completed. After all the concessions and socalled mollycoddling that the Country Party has given to the man on the land, the Country Party would like to blame the former Labor Government for his plight. We were in power for a little over  2Vi  years and had 3 elections in that time. We had a hostile Senate and so many of the things we tried to do were frustrated. So to all intents and purposes there was very little disturbance of the power of the Country Party. 
What has happened to -the men on the" land? They are just as badly off as ever they were. They are like old Hanrahan:they are all going to be ruined. They are all on. the verge of bankruptcy. They have the same problems.- There is no difference. The droughts still crime, the floods still come, the pests still come and their backsidesI am speaking not of members of the Country Party but of sheep- still get eaten by blowflies. It is the same old cycle of boom or bust. They might fluke good prices when they have a good season but 9 times out of 10 when they get a good season the prices are depressed. I do not think that the National Country Party has ever done anything for the farmers because they are in almost the same rut as they were in when the Country Party started 50 years ago. The rich have got richer and the poor have gone bankrupt. That is the only difference after 50 years of the Country Party's existence. 
If the farming community needs a break it will never get it while it is brainwashed and hypnotised by the Country Party. It is an amazing thing but the resilience of the farming community is absolutely superb. It gets belted every time there is an election with promises of what the Country Party will do for it but as soon as the election is over and the Country Party members come back to the Parliament, back to the rut the farmers go.  Mr Anthony,  the great Leader of the National Country Party, said that there was a significant future for the Australian beef industry. There will be a significant future for the beef industry only if we are able to expand our export markets and get reasonable prices for our beef. So the future of the Austraiian beef industry is really beyond our control. We are among the biggest beef eaters in the world. We are also among the biggest exporters of beef in the world. We have a very high reputation as beef producers. All these things are accepted. But this still does not get away from the fact that unless there is a profitable export market then there is only stagnation for the beef industry. We can expand the beef industry only by increasing our population or by finding new markets. I do not know where  Mr Anthony  gets his magic prediction that there is a great future for the Australian beef industry. 

 Senator Scott referred to the energy crisis. The energy crisis is just a part of the cycle as is the boom and bust about which I have spoken. The energy crisis is a crisis of the capitalist system. We cannot get away from that. The system is sick. As people have wisely said, when there is a sneeze in the United States there is roaring, rampant influenza in Australia. This is what happens in the Western world with boom and bust. 
I do not know. I am not a very keen student of the Eastern world. I have not heard of people in that part of the world having to dump their surplus production, of orchardists being told to pull up their apple trees or a whole industry being uprooted and sent to South Africa where there is cheaper labour. I have not heard that sheep are selling at 10c a head because there is a glut. There is starvation among plenty in the world. We are prepared to spend millions of dollars on armaments. We are building up a fear. It must be the Indonesians that we are going to fight because Indonesia is the only neighbour which can possibly invade us. Or it could be the Timorese, the Malaysians or the Filipinos- these people who are going to build up tremendous forces and invade us. According to this Government we cannot look forward to 15 years of peace. We have to prepare for a war. We are to put a bigger proportion of our gross national product into war preparationswarships, thermo-nuclear power, submarines, armaments and the smartening up of our defence forces generally. 
I make the point that we cannot keep our beef industry on a level footing but we can find plenty of money to put into armaments. This is the contradiction in the Fraser regime. Ministers on the front bench here and in another place, together with members of the National Country Party, support a government which would expend more of our gross national product on armaments and less on assisting a frontal attack on brucellosis or tuberculosis in our beef industry. 
We could put  Senator Steele  Hall in the forefront and the cows would run for their lives. The Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton)  stated during the course of his second reading speech that the export charge would be suspended from 1 March. He stated that the charge was introduced in November 1973 and that it was due to expire in June 1976. Now a big concession is being made in that the charge is being ended this month, rather than running through to June. Over the 2 financial years 1973-74 and 1974-75 the cost to the Australian Government of meat inspection was $45. 6m, compared with a revenue collection of $26.4m- $ 1 9.2m less. I ask honourable senators by whom the $ 19.2m was paid? It was paid by the taxpayers. It was paid out of consolidated revenue. It is true that here we have an industry which is struggling. But the export industry is only complementary to the beef industry. The exporters toil not, neither do they spin. They are what are known as the in-off merchants in the industry. The farmer has to push his product through the mill. He has no choice. Yet the taxpayer is paying $ 1 9.2m to subsidise the inspection of the meat. The repeal of the levy legislation will cost the Australian Government $20m in a full year. Also, the estimate of foregone revenue from suspending the charge from 1 March instead of in June is of the order of $5. 5m, or $8m including the disease eradication charge. So in this time of great economising, of cutting and chopping and all this type of thing, we find quite a considerable account on the other side with the superphosphate bounty and the remission of these charges. All this adds up to a nice little pay off for the supporters of the National Country Party. 
Then there is the matter of the importance to the beef industry of the eradication of diseases. Earlier on  Senator Primmer  spoke about the incidence of skin cancer in Hereford cattle. In the 40 years that I have been associated directly and indirectly with cattle I have known eye cancer and nose cancer to be prevalent in Herefords. This means that some basic research has to be done into this British breed of cattle. We never see cancer in Brahmans. I have never seen cancer in Black Polls. I have never seen cancer in dairy breeds such as Fresians, Jerseys, Guernseys or Ayrshires. The only beasts in which I have seen eye cancer and nose cancer have been the Herefords. Yet the Hereford would be the most prevalent of all beef breeds in Australia, particularly in the northern parts of Queensland and in large areas of the Northern Territory. Considerable funds are being devoted to the control of brucellosis, contagious abortion and also tuberculosis, which is more widespread in the subtropical areas than it is in the other coastal areas of Australia. Yet so much work remains to be done here. Overall we believe that assistance is necessary at this phase of the cycle of the beef industry. Export markets are depressed. Of course, the ordinary person who buys meat in the local butcher shops is paying a very high price for beef relative to the wages that are available. It is still costing $ 1 per lb or more for meat. 
This is right. It is the chicken and the egg situation. It is the cycle. We cannot blame one or the other unless we say to the worker, 'Cut out eating meat', because the Australian worker - 
The vealer I was talking about earlier weighed 350 lb. The other beasts  wouldhaveweighedbetween450lband500lb.  If we work on the basis of the beast being worth 10c per lb at the saleyard we have the value of $50. If the price is 20c per lb - 
It is not necessarily. 
Is the honourable senator talking about the butcher or the farmer? 
Yes, or the agent. 
As I tried to tell the honourable senator before, this amount represents a very high proportion of the cost of living. The amount spent from a man's wage to buy meat represents a very high proportion of that wage. So the meat is not sold to the ordinary working man as cheaply as we would be given to believe in comparison to the price that the farmer himself is receiving. The same situation applies in regard to what the farmer receives for meat that is exported. Yet the farmer himself will not benefit from the remission of this inspection charge. The people who will gain most from it are the exporters. I would like some member of the National Country Party who follows me in the debate to assure the Senate that this remission will be passed back to the man who needs it most. I know that the beef producer today needs it. He needs all the help he can get. If he does receive it, I will be very pleased. I do not think that he will. I think that he is at the tail end and is receiving the worst end of the stick. If the working man were to receive the benefit of the remission, I would be pleased but he will not. He still has to pay $ 1 per lb for his good cut of beef. He is lucky if he can get it at that price. 
That is right. If we buy it on the plate, it costs $2 per lb. Beef is not cheap at that price when its price is taken as a percentage of the basic wage. We want to see the beef producer helped over these difficult times. When this levy was imposed he did not mind very much, despite all the cries that we heard from members of the National Country Party. Honourable senators can read in the  Hansard  record of the debate what they then said. We heard the old Hanrahan phrase, 'We'll all be rooned'. We were told that this Government would finance all its socialistic schemes by imposing a burden on the farmers. Honourable senators opposite were citing the income from the levy as being $80m a year.  Mr Sinclair  and  Mr Anthony,  in their usual extravagant way, were saying what the socialist Government was going to do. The forecasts never eventuated. They were all pie-in-the-sky but they served the purpose of brainwashing the farmer so he might be given to understand that the National Country Party was working in his interest. 
We believe that the plan for the eradication of both tuberculosis and brucellosis must continue. We believe that all the relief that can be given should be given to the beef producer. We are opposing this measure which just gives the exporter all the facilities of inspection and of high standards of hygiene supplied by the taxpayer of Australia, unless there is some guarantee that the beef producer can recover the cost. For that reason we are supporting the alternative proposition of $ 1 a head levy although it still means that the ordinary Australian- the consumer of beef or the taxpayer, for that matter- will subsidise the exporters of our beef. It is a sectional subsidy. I believe that in these times when the Government is professing that it is economising, this economy could quite well be made. 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate, in his capacity as Minister in charge of the Commonwealth Police. By way of preface I point out that honourable senators will recall the great headlines in the Press and the mock consternation of honourable senators opposite regarding the activities of the Commonwealth Police in tracking down a dangerous group of neo-fascist guerillas operating in and out of Australia and Yugoslavia in the past. Will the Minister inform the Senate why the Commonwealth Police raided the office and seized the books of a Melbourne insurance group last Friday? Is this the start of an Australia-wide investigation into the insurance industry? If this information, as reported in last Saturday's edition of the Melbourne  Age  is correct, did the instructions to raid the insurance office come from the Minister in charge of the Commonwealth Police or the Attorney-General? Will the Minister table a full report on this unusual intrusion into a hitherto protected industry? 
I present the following petition from 28 citizens of Tasmania: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
. That Omega is the only worldwide navigation system, whose continuous Very Low Frequency signals can be used by submarines to determine their position, while remaining completely submerged. 
That in particular the missile-firing submarines of the U.S.A. can improve their destructive potential by using Omega signals. 
That it represents a major escalation of the arms race, and directly involves Australia even further in nuclear war strategies. 
That therefore an Omega station built in Australia would be a prime nuclear target. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Australian Government will reconsider its decision and reject any proposal to build an Omega station on Australian soil. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the AttorneyGeneral. Is the Minister aware that a challenge to the Senate election in Tasmania has been filed in the High Court? Does the Minister know when this claim was lodged? In view of the fact that if this challenge is upheld Tasmanian senators may not be properly seated in the Senate and that a new election would be necessary. I ask: Will the Attorney-General ask the Chief Justice of Australia to list this matter for hearing at the earliest possible moment? Also, will the Attorney-General ask the Chief Justice to have the application heard by the Full High Court in view of the practice of the present Chief Justice sitting alone, deciding matters referred to the High Court sitting as a Court of Disputed Returns? 
-Before this Bill is reported I would like to direct the attention of the Committee to some of the more germane parts of the argument that  Senator McLaren  wished to place before the Committee. In a survey conducted last year by the Department of Customs and Excise it was found that  472  users of superphosphate benefited by at least  $5,000  from the superphosphate bounty during  1974.  The average saving to them was  $7,500.  Senator McLaren  wanted these figures placed before the Committee but  Senator Greenwood,  acting as spokesman for the majority in this Senate, the so-called States House, where numbers count, refused permission to  Senator McLaren  to have those figures incorporated in  Hansard.  Among the users who fell into the category I have mentioned were the Prime Minister,  Mr Malcolm  Fraser, David Rockefeller, the Chase Manhattan Bank, the American entertainer Art Linkletter - 
The lights are going out. 
You are showing yourself up more and more every day. 
By a marinated red plum with a yoghurt on his head. 
I can start them with you, too, and finish them. 
The  CHAIRMAN (Senator DrakeBrockman)  I think it is time that the Chair intervened in this matter otherwise it could go on all night. In regard to  Senator Greenwood's  point of order, I make the point that once the question was put the Standing Orders required that there be no further debate on the matter. The question now is that the Bill be reported. Any debate must be confined to that question. 
I wish to oppose the motion that the Bill be reported. I said that previously and I wish to continue my remarks - 
I will confine my remarks to that area. The debate has been gagged and there has not been a proper opportunity for individual States to put forward their points of view because of the limited time that has been allocated by the Government which has the numbers.  Senator McLaren  in particular has been made the victim of the concerted efforts of Government supporters to deprive him of his right to state his view as a South Australian senator. I want to place on record something that  Senator McLaren  was deprived of stating, namely, the figures from the South Australian Department of Agriculture. It found that 2500 farmers there out of 25 000 farmers - 
Yes. I am stating the reason why the Bill should not be reported. I am opposing the motion before the Committee that the Bill be reported. There must be a vote in this chamber to prevent me from speaking against the motion before the Committee. If I am to be prevented from speaking within the time limit that is available to me without a vote of the Senate my rights must be upheld. 
Let me continue with my reasons for opposing the motion. As  Senator McLaren  tried to point out, 18 500 South Australian farmers received an average of less than $150 in superphosphate bounty; 5000 farmers received $700; 1000 averaged $1,800; 500 farmers averaged $3,500; 40 farmers averaged $8,800; 10 farmers averaged $17,000 to $18,000; and 2 farmers averaged $29,000. That is what  Senator McLaren  wanted to put before the Committee.  Senator McLaren  has been prevented from giving the details. This is why I am opposing the motion that the Bill be reported. These details should be available to the Committee and  Senator McLaren  should have been allowed to present them. He was prevented from incorporating names. He did not have the time to give a broad picture of these figures. Of the 25 000 farmers in  Senator McLaren's  State, 3000 are dairy farmers who do not use superphosphate. About half of them are involved in milk processed for sale on an unprofitable export market. These were the details that were not presented during the Committee stage. Clause 3, on which debate was gagged, states: 
Subject to this Act, bounty is also payable in respect of superphosphate and ammonium phosphate produced at registered premises and used after 31 December 1974 and before 1 1 February 1976 by the producer in the production in Australia of a fertiliser mixture for use in Australia, being a fertiliser mixture: 
that was not sold by the producer before 1 1 February 1976; or 
that: 
was sold by the producer before 1 1 February 1976; 
immediately before 1 1 February 1976, was held by, or for, a person other than the producer for sale by that person for use in Australia . . . 
On  Senator McLaren's  list the people whose names are marked by an asterisk are those who are getting this bounty- the middle men. The farmers are not getting it at all. 
This is the whole point. This is a payola for the vote of the people of the National Country Party. 
It is a wonder that the honourable senator who is newly arrived from Tasmania and who is Alice in Wonderland - 
The  CHAIRMAN (Senator DrakeBrockman)  Order!  Senator O'Byrne,  I ask you to come back to the question which is before the Committee. 
It is a wonder that the honourable senator does not realise the amount which the Liberal Party is paying in payola to the National Country Party in virtual blackmail. 
The motion before the Chair is that the Bill be reported.  Senator Withers  said that we did not oppose the original motion, that we did not divide. We know enough about how the Committee works to know that it is impossible to win without the numbers even though we might have the logic. We will have to allow this question to proceed to a vote. 
Motion (by  Senator Chaney)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the AttorneyGeneral. Some weeks ago I asked a question relating to a petition to the Court of Disputed Returns on the matter of the Tasmanian Senate election. I asked when this important Senate matter was to be heard and whether a full panel of the High Court of Australia would comprise the Court of Disputed Returns. I now ask the Minister: Has he any reply to this question and, if not, when is it likely that this matter will be resolved? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Administrative Services. If the report is correct that on a recent visit to that well known so-called benevolent dictator,  Mr Clunies  Ross, the Minister advised him to get rid of his troublemakers on the Cocos (Keeling) Islandsthose remarks applied also to Christmas Islandand that this would snuff out the ray of hope that the benighted workers there entertained that their days of serfdom were over, I ask: Has the Minister given similar advice to another of the Clunies Ross variety to take similar action to solve his Senate problems by getting rid of the troublemakers? 
-Is the Minister for Science aware of the current severe invasion by European carp of the waters of the MurrayDarling and its tributaries extending into Queensland? Will the Minister inform the Senate whether an in-depth inquiry could be initiated into this invasion by the fish into areas where, up to a month or so ago, they had been practically unknown but where at present they are a menace? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. By way of preface I point out that recently in Tasmania a certain amount of consternation was created by allegations that mercenaries were being recruited in Tasmania for service in Rhodesia, South Africa and other foreign countries. I ask the Minister whether the Press report is correct that an officer of the Australian Army served as a mercenary in another country when he was still a member of the Australian Army. If so, what were the circumstances of this mercenary service? Could the Minister ascertain whether the officer took an oath of loyalty to another power while being under oath to serve Australia? In view of the lack of protection for Australians serving in overseas countries, as evidenced by the assassination of journalists in East Timor, will the Minister inform the Senate of what specific guidelines apply to mercenary soldiers being recruited in or leaving this country and serving a foreign power? 
I just want to make the observation at this time that a pattern has been set in this Senate recently. I refer to  Senator Townley  's presentation before this Senate last Wednesday night of a document, unsubstantiated and without any supporting evidence at all, which had the very same intention as - 

 - Mr President, I would like interjections to cease for the moment. 
I take up at the point I was interrupted. I was drawing attention to this growing tendency over the last 12 months or so during which this Senate has been made a forum for this type of attack with outrageous charges being made inside and outside this Parliament against members of the Parliament without any evidence at all. During the whole of this 12-month period I have spoken of, we heard people like  Dr Cairns  vilified- insinuations, half truths, innuendoes of the worst sort directed against  Dr Cairns  to try to besmirch his character. We heard the same sort of thing in respect of  Mr Rex  Connor. We heard the same thing in respect of so many members of Parliament. We heard  Senator Murphy  vilified in this Parliament in the same way by the same people here. 
For the sake of the record I want to bring this matter back into perspective. In the very document that  Senator Wright  tabled tonight is an article from the London  Economist  dated 20 February 1976 under the heading 'Lockheed's iceberg'. It reads: 
There is a common thread in the current excitements about Lockheed Aircraft's alleged bribes,  Mr Jeremy  Thorpe's alleged morals and the death of British mercenaries ... in Angola. That thread is the public's instant enjoyment of snowballing scandal. 
This is the whole thread of this Senate's activities over the last 12 months and  Senator Townley  helped to snowball the scandal last Wednesday night. It is interesting to note that Government supporters are taking such umbrage here tonight about another part of the snowballing scandal. The article continues: 
The reputations of nien in public life can be a long time in the making, but a short time in the breaking. In the privileged - 
It is a speech against you too for taking part in the scandals of the last 12 months in this Senate.  (Opposition senators interjecting)- 

 Senator O'BYRNE Mr President, I would like to be heard. 
I continue to read from the document: 
In the privileged surroundings of a court room or congressional committee-room - 
Or, I can interpose, the floor of the Senate-  it is effortlessly easy to 'convey a libel in a frown, and wink a reputation down'. Holland's Prince Bernhard has been the week's most prominent victim. He is said to have accepted Sl.lm from Lockheed in return for his influence in securing contracts. He denies it. But anyway, just how wrong is commercial bribery? The cases admitted, or alleged, before the American Senate sub-committee on multinationals are only the tip of an iceberg that everyone knew was there but which nobody cared much about until the figures grew enormous and the names of the men said to have been bribed strayed from the Middle East to countries where such things are not supposed to happen. 
In relation to the Middle East, honourable senators might remember what occurred in regard to  Mr Khemlani.  The document continues: 
The Lockheed iceberg floats deep in the West to American politics ... to the politics just not of Holland but of Germany, Japan and elsewhere . . .: and not least to the commercial future of Lockheed itself and thus of Britain's Rolls-Royce which makes engines for the Lockheed Tristar. 
Even in these Western countries there is a moral uncertainty. Not when a Minister or civil servant lets his decisions be influenced by gifts. Then things are clear- he and the giver have both broken the law, as indeed has any commercial buyer who, for instance takes a kickback from some other company 's salesman. 
I interpolate again to state that we know of the money that has gone into the campaign funds of the Liberal Party of Australia. We know of the offices that have been set up across the length and breadth of Australia for the Liberal Party that have been fully staffed and manned in order to assist that Party. Yet, it could not even win the New South Wales Election conducted last weekend. I continue to read from the document: 
The grey areas begin when the issue is not one of decision but of influence. The French General Stehlin who had declared that the Mirage was inferior to its American rivals as a replacement for the Starfighter, was totally discredited when it was revealed later that he was paid as a 'consultant' by Northrop. But would he have been so discredited in Paris if the payment had been from Dassault? The British Parliament is satisfied that all is well if an M.P. paid by outsiders declares his interest. But that rule does not satisfy all British voters. And what of the gift directed not to the man but, say. to his favourite charity? He may be just as much influenced in his decision; yet- as the Dutch public has shown in discussion of the alleged Lockheed payments to Prince Bernhard- he would be less severely damned by public opinion. And then where does collective bribery start? When is a firm that contributes to a political party taking a legitimate interest in politics and when is it trying to buy government (or indeed opposition) favours? There is no uniform answer in Western countries: But the Americans now put strict limits on corporate political contributions; the British are more lenient so long as presents are within reason and in public view; and the Italians find it quite normal, if not quite legal, that major companies operate vast slush funds hidden from the public, and the tax man too. 
The revelations of the activities of the Lockheed Corporation in America are a worldwide scandal. They provide an indication of the lengths to which the capitalist system will go in order to bribe and suborn people to press its system of profit-making. I abhor the present situation that has arisen in which people can be libelled and defamed. I ask all honourable senators opposite to examine their consciences to see what they have done to honourable people from this side of the Parliament over the last 12 months. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I fully appreciate his attitude towards newspapers, but by way of preface I would like to draw his attention to the presence in Australia of a former consultant to the Lockheed Aircraft Corporation,  Dr Harold  Koontz, Chancellor of the International Academy of Management and author of the best seller  Principles of Management.  While speaking in Melbourne he referred to alleged bribes by American corporations. In fact, he said it was impossible to do business in some countries unless such payments were made. He said he was not condoning bribery but that was how the system worked with all manufacturers. Will the Minister obtain, through the Foreign Affairs office and through  Senator Church,  the  Chairman  of the Sub-Committee on Multinational Corporations in the United States, a transcript of the evidence submitted in the United States Senate hearing into alleged bribes by American corporations and table that document in the Australian Senate to inform the people of this country fully on the matter of Lockheed operations in Australia and in other parts of the world? 
-I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate who represents the Prime Minister. By way of preface, I remind the Minister that in the election held last weekend in Tasmania the Australian Labor Party candidate, being opposed by a previous Liberal Party Minister and a previous Liberal Party senator, obtained 57 per cent of the vote. That follows closely on the Labor Party victory in New South Wales, and is an indication of the Government's declining position. Despite the answer that was given yesterday, I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate what the Government proposes to do to assist Tasmania to alleviate the plight which Tasmania inevitably will face because of the possibility of hospital fees for maternity patients costing up to $500. Despite the reply given yesterday to the question about the possibility of people in Tasmania paying up to $1,000 a year for medical and hospital benefit insurance, I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate: Will the Prime Minister consider placing a moratorium on the new health and medical proposals pending a referendum of the people to test whether the Government has a specific mandate to wreck the Medibank concept? 
By way of preface to my question, which is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate, I should like to point out that Government members have constantly reiterated that the States will not have to impose additional taxes to adjust their finances as a result of the Federal Government's policy. I should just like to draw the Minister's attention to a statement by the Premier of Tasmania, in which he said that the Prime Minister,  Mr Fraser,  has perpetrated a fairly substantial confidence trick on the States, designed to give the impression that services can be maintained by the Commonwealth's withdrawing from activities without the States imposing additional taxes. I ask the Leader of the Government: Will he draw the attention of his colleagues- particularly his Senate colleagues from the Labor States- to the fact that the Premier of Tasmania intends to do all that he can to persuade Tasmanian senators to protect the interests of the State by calling the bluff of the Fraser Government on financial cutbacks? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. I preface it by pointing out that yesterday in Tasmania a large number of primary producers assembled and presented their case to members of the Federal Cabinet, and that during the course of that meeting it was suggested that the way to overcome the problems of primary industry was by price fixing, rationalisation of production and the relocation of people now in depressed areas. Was not this policy widely condemned by the Minister and his colleagues when the previous Labor Government made efforts to introduce a plan to stabilise primary industry along these lines? Could the Minister state whether this suggestion could be taken as the future primary industry policy of the present Government? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Health whether she is in a position to confirm or deny, or whether she can prevail upon her colleague in another place to confirm or deny, a report which was made to me by a member of the medical profession that the Medibank private health insurance scheme provides for 32 days accommodation in a private ward of a hospital as compared with 300 days accommodation in a private ward under the private hospital benefit funds. If this difference exists and thus places the Medibank private scheme at a great disadvantage will the Minister inform the Senate why there is such a disparity between the 2 schemes? Will she cause a review of Medibank to be undertaken to correct this anomaly before 1 October when the new scheme comes into effect? 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. During last year leading newspaper headlines prominently featured the then Senators Field and Bunton as heroes during the time of the stacking of the Senate. In view of the report that ex-Senator 
Field is living impoverished in a back room in Brisbane and the political neuter ex-Senator Bunton, has given up the ghost, in despair, for Albury-Wodonga, has the Government given any thought to the future of these 2 people who were so cynically exploited by the Government in its ruthless scramble for power last year and then dumped when they were of no further use to the Government? 
-Will the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs explain to the Senate why he claimed in rather extravagant if not insulting terms that the Premier of Tasmania was guilty of criminal negligence in having a surplus budget when the reason for the surplus was the taking over of the Tasmanian Government railway system by the Australian Government, thus relieving the Tasmanian Government of having to budget for a deficit? Have not the Minister and his colleague tried to renege on the Commonwealth agreement with the State of Tasmania but so far have failed to find the sought after loophole? Does not the Minister agree that the State Government was provident in not overspending during the time that the Australian Government was trying every possible method to welch on the agreement? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Industry and Commerce, follows the question asked by  Senator Walters.  The Minister has already shown that he is fully aware that at the turn of the century the Australian people were seriously divided on the contentious issue of free trade and protection and that Australia's tariff policy over the intervening years has been to encourage the setting up of Australian industries, particularly textile industries, with tariff protection sufficient to counter the cheap labour cost advantages of countries- particularly Asian countries- where hours of work and terms and conditions of employment leave much to be desired. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  I think I have given you enough latitude,  Senator O  'Byrne. Please ask your question. 
I now ask the Minister: What method does his Government intend to pursue that would refute the growing belief that the policy of this Government is to use the lever of unemployment in an attempt to reduce the working conditions of Australian workers to that of the coolies of other countries, and so deprive the Australian worker of his hard-won living standards that he has struggled so hard over the years to obtain and maintain? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I refer him to a letter that he wrote to me on 3 August 1976 in answer to a question that I directed to him on 6 May 1976. 1 asked: 
Will the Minister obtain, through the Foreign Affairs office and through  Senator Church,  the  Chairman  of the Subcommittee on Multinational Corporations in the United States, a transcript of the evidence submitted in the United States Senate hearing into alleged bribes by American corporations and table that document . . . 
The Minister's reply was: 
The Minister for Foreign Affairs has supplied the following answer to your question: 
Volumes 3 to 12 of transcript of evidence admitted in hearings before the Sub-committee on Multinational Corporations of the Committee on Foreign Relations, United States Senate, have been lodged with the Parliamentary Library. Volumes 1 and 2 which deal with the International Telephone and Telegraph company and Chile respectively are out of print, but copies can be examined at the National Library. 
In view of the fact that in a reply to  Senator McLaren  the Leader of the Government said that all information received shall be kept confidential and shall not be disclosed to third parties or government agencies having no law enforcement responsibilities, is the reply which I received factual? Until yesterday I was unable to trace this evidence in the Library. Is this a new policy of the Government to keep information secret from the Senate? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. Could the Minister inform the Senate whether the Papua New Guinea Government sought a rearrangement of the Australian shareholdings in Air Niugini that would enable the Ansett organisation to increase its shareholding to 25 per cent of the total shareholding, to the exclusion of Trans-Australia Airlines and Qantas Airways Ltd? If so, what action has the Government taken on the request? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. Will he give an assurance that in the transfer of the Tasmanian Government Railways to the Australian Government the rights of railway employees, including the right of choice of superannuation fund, will be preserved? Further, will the Minister provide the Parliament with the date for the transfer of the Tasmanian Railways to the Australian Government? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. By way of preface, I point out to the Minister that it is claimed that the United States of America has the nuclear capacity to destroy the Soviet Union 35 times and that the Soviet Union has the nuclear capacity to destroy the United States 15 times. In view of the warning of the General Secretary of the United Nations, Kurt Waldheim, that the armament fever was becoming an epidemic, how seriously does the Government view the call from the recent Returned Services League Congress for Australia to embark on nuclear armament? 
-! compliment  Senator Ryan  who has made a restrained, dignified and quite worthy defence of one of Australia's finest academics and historians, Professor Manning Clark. Professor Manning Clark has come through his career in this country with a great deal of credit and dignity to his profession.  His  attitude towards history has been one of sound judgment. He has reached the stage of his life where, with great maturity, he is able to make very sound judgments. 
Professor Clark is entided to make his own personal evaluations of history in its formative stages. It is almost 12 months since the event of history to which he has referred. I was present at a seminar in Melbourne with some very learned legal people who had an alternative point of view to that of the present Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott),  Professor Carrick, and a few other people including the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  The view that was sold to the people of Australia in the events leading up to and including 1 1 November, and leading up to 13 December, are not as widely accepted as those people, as a result of their gigantic confidence trick, would have us believe. 
We only have to look at what is happening in the United States, at the Lockheed scandal, Watergate and the Central Intelligence Agency. Honourable senators opposite must be babes in the wood, almost misguided missiles, to think that the same thing does not happen here. The events of 11 November were dominated by other things Uke the Strait of Malacca, Timor, the Indian Ocean, uranium, iron ore and the great sell-out which has been going on. Those events dominated 1 1 November. But let me get back to the matter under debate. The take-over is on. I refer to the stooges and spivs whom  Senator Baume  takes to heart, and one of the jobs for the boys on the Australian Broadcasting Commission. This whole pattern of events has been carefully brought about as a result of 1 1 November. 
-No, I have not lost my lolly, boy. I tell you what, you have had a lolly in your mouth because you have been a sucker for years- a perpetual sucker. It is a pity  Senator Sim  is not here tonight because  Senator Sim  is a great Jew lover-  Senator Baume  might take this on board;  Senator Sim  is a great Jew lover - 

 Senator O'BYRNE Senator Sim is a racist. 

 - Mr President, in deference to you I withdraw whatever offence there is in saying that  Senator Sim  is a Jew lover because I was about to go on to say that  Senator Sim  is a racist and a Jew hater. 
If the honourable senator wants me to withdraw whatever it is that is offensive to him I will continue with my speech and point out that  Senator Sim  has gone on record - 
You have to put down the words in writing if you want me to withdraw. If you do that I will withdraw them. 

 - Mr President, I said that in deference to you, I withdraw the remark that  Senator Sim  is a Jew lover. Is that right? Is that what you wanted me to withdraw? 
I am not certain whether I have withdrawn. I withdrew the words that I was asked to withdraw. 
I am already on record as having said that I withdraw the remark that I think  Senator Sim  is a Jew lover. Does that satisfy  Senator Baume?  The point I was going to make was that  Senator Sim  is notorious in this chamber for having said that this country was being run by a group of Manchester Jews who had been in Hong Kong making certain trade arrangements - 
If  Senator Harradine  takes exception to those words, although he was not here at the time- I myself was very offended when I heard the words- I withdraw them, if  Senator Harradine  insists. 
-Just for the record, I would like to interpolate here that for many years I was a very strong supporter of the Jewish council to combat fascism and anti-semitism. I supported the cause of the Jewish people consistently during their struggle in Europe. I met many of them and saw the injustices and the indignities that were perpetrated on the Jewish people. I am a very deeply anti-fascist person, because I know the menace and the horror of fascism. I know fascists when I see them. I can smell them, and I know how many fascists were in the refugee camps in Europe. I know how Arthur Calwell in his compassionate way said: 'Let us forget about fascism. Let us forget when they are in those camps in Europe. Let us bring them to Australia and give them an opportunity for the future. ' But I do not want to see that same thing rear its ugly horrible head again in this country.  Senator McLaren  said that I did something towards fighting this menace, and I will continue in this Senate to fight every time I see fascism raising its head. I think  Senator Sim  showed a sign of antisemitism when he referred to the Manchester Jews, and  Senator Baume  must admit that that was a most unparliamentary, objectionable, unpalatable, racist, reprehensible phrase. 
That is right, and I also referred to the expression 'Manchester Jews' as being an indication of some of the things contained in the subject matter under discussion to which I want to refer.  Senator Sim  asked the Minister for Education: 
Has the Minister seen an article entitled 'Are We a Nation of Bastards' in a journal called  Meanjin Quarterly  by Professor Manning Clark? If so, did Professor Manning Clark assert that the Governor-General and his beneficiaries can expect little mercy from historians of the people; that we can judge what happens to historians in the people's democracies of today; that historian would not be given the paper to write his defence, let alone the opportunity to publish it; and that the people 's historians judge their opponents harshly. In view of the bigoted and fascist views expressed by Professor Manning Clark - 
That is a rather extreme view for  Senator Sim  to use against Professor Manning Clark- and the threat to historians of the future, I ask: 
Now, this is it. This is what happened in Europe because they wanted. to undermine people of conscience, of character and of courage. 
On what university appointments does Professor Manning Clark sit? 
Ah! Let us use our power to undermine him and unseat him. 
How frequently does he act as a higher degree examiner for history theses? 
Ha! Let us see - 
That is right. Then: 
Can a guarantee be given that Professor Manning Clark will not use his power to stop other historians from getting paper and to have their pencils broken so that they cannot write, then being sent to a leftist fascist Gulag Archipelago? 
Ooh! This is the very objective person who wants to know whether this country is being run by a bunch of Manchester Jews.  Senator Carrick-  the doyen of the university students, who give him such an enthusiastic welcome when he goes along to see them on matters of education, this authority of the open-the-door-Richard of 1949 fame and the black coated bureaucrats whom he denigrated in 1949 when he was first earning to light in the Liberal Party and was able to embark on a campaign in this country that was almost equal to the campaign recently launched with great success- answered in this way:  he will know also that it suggested that Professor Manning Clark said that perhaps history might find some justification and some support for what the GovernorGeneral did on 1 1 November. 
Yes, history might find some justification, and the justification will be that the GovernorGeneral was placed in such a position on so many different levels that he had no escape. There was the Chief Justice of the High Court, there were the Premiers of the States and there was this chamber which had to go to ultimate lengths not only in the interpretation of the Constitution but also in the prostitution of the conventions of this place. All these forces had to be brought out. Then there was unlimited money available for a campaign that was without precedent in the history of this place. Use was made of the capacity of the stock exchange and the business people in Australia to sabotage the Labor Government to such an extent that the present Government is still suffering and feeling the repercussions of that undermining of the economy. 
No, by the business people themselves, and the business people of this country are now stewing in their own juice, as is the Liberal Party. That is why  Senator Cotton  cannot go to the unions. That is why wherever  Senator Cotton  goes, wherever  Mr Ellicott  goes, wherever the Prime Minister goes, wherever the Governor-General goes, the people of this country go: 'Hiss, hiss, hiss'. That is what they deserve- the hiss of scorn. 
It is better than getting hissed on. Professor Cotton, Professor Carrick- I mean Professor Manning- 
The honourable senator will not cotton on to that at all.  Senator Carrick  went on to quote what was said by Professor Manning Clark in the following terms: 
But the emotionalism of history will not allow it to be written down. ' 

 Senator Carrick went on to say: 
Indeed, that may well be. It is fair to say that Professor Manning Clark has a reputation of expertise in Australian history. 
That is quite true. He went on to say: 
It is quite clear from that article and from his presence in recent days at the Sydney Town Hall alongside the whole of the socialist and Communist left that what he is at this moment is a political partisan and apologist for the Labor Party, for Gough Whitlam and for the lost cause and the distorted cause of Gough Whitlam. The simple situation is that for a person who purports to be a historian to put his name to a document which suggests - 
Earlier, of course,  Senator Carrick  said that Professor Manning Clark had a reputation for expertise in Australian history- 
Yes, the Governor-General might be found by history to be right but we will not allow it to be written ', is a corruption. 
This is a judgment by  Senator Carrick  in which he denigrates a great man, a man who holds a position in the esteem of Australian academics and a man who, despite the attack by  Senator Carrick,  will still maintain that position.  Senator Carrick  went on to say: 
The fact is that it may well be that Professor Manning Clark has said, in effect: 'We learn from history but we learn nothing from history'. But the good sense of the ballot box during 75 years and on 13 December is the answer to Professor Manning Clark. 
That is the point I started to make, namely, that the whole of the attack on Professor Manning Clark has been a mean, miserable and a very cowardly trick. It has been a very cowardly attack on a great man. I believe that the defence that has been put up on his behalf here tonight has carried on the best traditions of the Senate of defending a man who is not here to defend himself.  Senator Sim  should be here to defend himself. This attack was made on a man who was not here to defend himself- an attack made in a coward 's castle by a coward. 
I withdraw that word. I say that it was a cowardly action and I hope that we do not hear any more attacks such as that on people of great eminence and of great distinction in this country. I commend the honourable senator for her defence of this very great man. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. By way of preface I would like to point out .that I have received a communication from the Tasmanian section of the National Trust of Australia which is anxious that the buildings in Hunter Street, Hobart previously occupied by Henry Jones and Co. warehouses, which are priceless to the Australian architectural heritage and a symbol of Australia's commercial history, should be preserved as a unit for posterity. Will the Minister make representations to Cabinet to give close consideration to the acquisition of these eminently satisfactory and ready-made premises for the establishment of the proposed Antarctic Division of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation? 
My question to the Minister for Social Security refers to changes in the incidence of taxation on beneficiaries of both full and part pensions which bring into the taxable area many people who were previously exempt. I ask the Minister: Is it intended to send out information on these changes to the taxation of both full and pan pensions with pension notices? If so, will this information be prepared by the Department of Social Security or by the Taxation Office? As many pensioners are very much in the dark as to how this tax is to be administered and as to whether it will act as a disincentive for them to continue to carry out work in which they are currently engaged, will the Minister at the earliest opportunity make a statement in an easily understood form so as to clarify the situation? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. By way of preface I observe that the concept of international reciprocity of pensions is one of enlightened and humane advancement in human relations, particularly to the generation that was so drastically displaced and disturbed by the Second World War and its aftermath of migration. What is the current status of negotiations with European countries for reciprocity of pensions? Are negotiations proceeding? Can the Minister state the order of priority given to this matter by her Department? 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Overseas Trade and the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. It refers to a subject similar to that raised by  Senator Gietzelt  earlier in question time. In view of the serious decision of the  President  of the United States of America to impose further quotas on Australian beef to the extent of 8 million lb on our previously determined quota, will the Minister obtain the names of those exporters who shipped excessive and unauthorised quantities of Australian beef to the United States through Puerto Rico and Canada and so jeopardised the quotas available to orthodox exporters? Is there not some way that these people, who showed shortsightedness and acted regardless of its effect on the reputation of Australians as fair traders, can be made to forgo their future quotas for engaging in such damaging practices? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, is very closely related to the question asked by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate,  Senator Wriedt.  I ask the Minister: Is it the intention of the Government to abolish the Australian Broadcasting Control Board and to establish a new body with authority over all broadcasting bodies including the Australian Broadcasting Commission? Will the Minister confirm or deny that there is ground for the growing concern in the community that such a new body would have authority to impose radio and television licence fees? 
I address a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate who represents the Prime Minister in this chamber. I refer to an answer he gave on 3 June 1 976 to a question about East Timor. He said: 
There is one government that makes Australia's policy. Our attitude to Timor has been enunciated clearly and with force on many occasions by the Foreign Minister. No other government has a role in formulating Australian foreign policy. 
Is the Minister aware that the Premier of Queensland,  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  has publicly called upon the Australian Government to recognise East Timor officially as a part of Indonesia? Is it not time that the Minister, as Leader of the Government in the Senate, publicly reprimanded  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  for once more making mischievous public statements outside his legitimate jurisdiction? 
-I regret that  Senator Walters  had, in my view, transgressed the Standing Orders to the extent that I had to take up some of her time by drawing attention to that fact, because she was just beginning to get on to the subject matter of the urgency motion when she concluded her speech. However,  Senator Walters,  together with  Senator Rae,  has taken the attitude that all of the ills of the economy and Tasmania are attributable to the present Premier of Tasmania. When the Premier introduced his plan to combat unemployment, which in our view is one of the greatest social evils that confronts our nation, we heard nothing but cynical, sick, destructive criticism of that plan. For the enlightenment of the Senate I would like to read the initiatives that the Premier of Tasmania, the  Hon.  W. A. Neilson, proposes. 
He proposes the establishment of an intermediate technology group in Tasmania to be subsidised at the rate of $1,500 monthly. The only part of  Senator Rae  's speech that was in any way generous was his admission that that was quite a good scheme.  Senator Rae  is the campaign director for the effete and decrepit Liberal Party which was given a few years of the past 42 years to prove itself but was dismissed by the people of Tasmania and is not likely to get back on to the Treasury bench again.  Senator Rae  was whistling in the dark during the course of his remarks this afternoon. He did not have the generosity to admit that the State Government can do good things under this plan.  Senator Rae  said that the State Government has made handouts to various groups just because an election was coming up. What about the united milk people that he wanted to support on the northwest coast of Tasmania? Did he think that that was a miserable handout which was made because an election is coming up or does he think it was made because those people desperately needed assistance? People in the Circular Head area have been able to be retained in employment in the industry. 

 Mr Neilson also proposes that private companies which are increasing their work force be exempted from additional payroll tax for the next 2 years. He proposes that there be a special appropriation of $2m for unemployment relief. He proposes that we launch a Buy Tasmania campaign. He also proposes that there be a new increased intake into the Police Academy, that there be a scholarship scheme for cadets in social welfare, female secretaryship, and so on. He proposes that there be a letting by the Housing Department of contracts for building individual houses in country areas to small builders. He proposes the establishment of a full time interdepartmental youth work unit on the South 
Australian pattern. He proposes the letting of a contract to a local firm to provide sports halls at a number of schools. He proposes that there be the letting of a contract for the provision of additional terrapin units for education purposes. He proposes that there be a number of cleaning and reclamation works undertaken by the National Parks and Wildlife Service and the Lands Departments. He proposes portability of apprenticeships within government departments and instrumentalities. He also proposes that $ lm on a $ 1 for $ 1 basis be made available to municipal councils as part of a $2m special appropriation. He proposes that there should be a major acceleration of a school building program which was to be announced. 
He also proposes joint initiatives with the Commonwealth Government to arrange a special meeting of Premiers and the Loan Council to consider the problem of unemployment. This has been met with a rebuff at the federal level and from the Prime Minister. The Premier proposes the lifting of the authority of the States to borrow for the remainder of the year by 10 per cent. He proposes the immediate lowering of the retirement age to 63 years- this would be voluntarywith a consequent provision for age pensions for males at 63. There would be consequent alterations to superannuation and retirement benefits legislation and the ultimate aim would be to make retirement possible at 60 years. He proposes an extension of the Commonwealth youth employment program so that the State subsidise by $15 a week the Comonwealth unemployment benefit paid to all breadwinners who have been unemployed for 6 months. He proposes that the Commonwealth be urged expeditiously to commence the Antarctic base and the Maritime College and to employ local contractors. He proposes that the Commonwealth be asked to maintain tighter protection against overseas imports, particularly in the textile industry. He proposes that the Commonwealth be asked to grant special dispensation against the effects of the Mackie scheme on the overseas meat marketing controls. He proposes that the Commonwealth spend a substantial sum this year on the rehabilitation of railways and he also proposes that there be a $ 1 for $ 1 subsidy for the dairying industry. 
Government speakers this afternoon have adopted an almost pathological attitude to these proposals.  Senator Rae  tried in his contribution to discredit these proposals on the ground that they were an election gimmick. Thus is an irrational attitude to take. It seemed to be the whole theme of his attack. He said that it was an election ploy by a desperate government. On the one hand  Senator Rae  has the temerity to express sympathy for the unemployed and the disastrous situation facing school leavers, the very difficult situation which Tasmania as an island State is placed in because such a huge proportion of its products are exported and a low proportion is consumed locally which puts it in a different situation from any other State, but on the other hand he denigrates his own State. The State of Tasmania has been a wonderful home over the years for both  Senator Rae  and me. It has provided an education system which has been very suitable for  Senator Rae.  It had provided until the time of the 'Medimuddle' one of the finest hospital systems in Australia. So the State Government of Tasmania does not deserve this type of denigration in the eyes of the Australian people that has been put forward this afternoon by people who wish to score a few political points in speaking against the proposals that have been put forward by the Premier of Tasmania.  Senator Rae  said that the State Premier was erecting windmills to be tilted at. The policy that has been put forward by  Mr Neilson  is a constructive policy. Tasmania needs something along these lines to help it get out of the difficult problem that exists there at the present time. 
During the few moments  Senator Walters  spent on the subject of unemployment she said that she did not think the Federal Government had brought unemployment to Tasmania. I would like to remind  Senator Walters  that unemployment is inherent in our system. It is part of the whole economic system under which we live. The United States of America, the United Kingdom and France and practically every other country in the Western world are in a desperate position when it comes to unemployment. They do not know how they can adjust the capitalist system to overcome the situation, and I do not think we will be able to do it. Unemployment is inherent in our system and this is particularly so while there are in power people such as those who support the present Government who are trying to turn the clock back to the private entrepreneurial system which says if you leave the problem to the private sector it will resolve itself. That is absolutely psychopathic and old hat. It is impossible to revert - 
-It is impossible to turn the clock back. People like  Senator Wright  live in the past. He is one of the most extinct of the old dodo types. He believes in that type of ideology and philosophy that it is possible in 1976 to be able to revert to the private enterprise philosophy by handing back to the people the spending power of the nation when he knows very well that all the criteria for the circulation of money have been altered by a new approach to economics. The Government must spend these days. It has to spend money on all the main public works. It has to develop our railways, roads, wharves, public services and the like. It is of no use thinking that by cutting out spending in those areas the private sector will take over the problem. Whatever type of business activity one looks at today one can see that there is no confidence. The people on whom this Government places this responsibility at the present time do not know where to go. There is no lead for them. Unless people spend money there is no turnover; there is no profit. It follows that the people are not going to expand their factories or develop industry. There is a vicious circle. This Government says that the way to solve the problem of unemployment is to have a war. This is the type of foreign policy this Government is playing around with in its imagination. It thinks it will be able to absorb the unemployed in the way it did last time in the 1930s when there was a big unemployment problem with 25 per cent of the youth of the nation unemployed. In 1939 this Government got them involved in a war and killed them off. This is the capitalist system. This Government says that the way to absorb them in employment is to produce armaments and by putting them into the army. This is part of the Government's policy. 
The honourable senator said that 'anyone would think this Government had brought unemployment to Tasmania '. Nothis Federal Government did not bring it to Tasmania. 
-I just explained that to the Senate. There is unemployment in every country in the western world. An organisation in Europe has done something about it by coordinating public spending. All the governments there are spending publicly and employment opportunities are being created. But in the United States, as I pointed out earlier to  Senator Walters,  in the United Kingdom and in most other Western countries the problem of unemployment is inherent. We will not beat it by doing as this Commonwealth Government does. The attempt by the Tasmanian Government to create employment opportunities has been denigrated this afternoon by  Senator Rae  who accused it of tilting at windmills, using the situation as an election ploy, or an election gimmick. 
This is where  Senator Rae  is so contradictory. He condemns it as being an election ploy and on the other hand he says that it was Liberal policy that had been pinched by  Mr Neilson.  That shows how shallow and cynical is his argument. On the one hand he attacks Neilson for his plan. Then, being a lawyer, he says: 'On the other hand-'. If we could ever find a one handed lawyer we would get some good decisions, because lawyers give good advice on the one hand and then take it away with the other hand.  Senator Rae  said, on the other hand, that  Mr Neilson  had taken the policy of the Liberal Party. However, there was no mileage for  Senator Rae  or  Senator Walters  in trying to denigrate the Premier of Tasmania and his proposals. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Davidson)-  Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
I would like to say a few words about this matter which  Senator McLaren  has raised tonight.  Senator McLaren  spoke about the spreadability of butter and how butter can be made to compete with margarine. He wanted some reason why this food item should be subject to a game of political football rather than be considered reasonably and regarded as an item of food with advantages. I believe that  Senator Webster  and his National Country Party colleagues, in particular, have been responsible for a vicious and wicked presentation in the competition of margarine as against butter, purely for selfish purposes and to benefit one section of the community as against another. Many doctors realise that butter is harmful to the health of many people in the community, but such people have been prevented from getting margarine. I have no brief in this matter. 
-Senator Wright should have cut down his butter intake because he is fat and old. It will do his brains a lot of harm. Please do not interject,  Senator Wright.  You are being highly disorderly in interjecting. 
I have no brief for margarine, but I must make my strongest objection against the longstanding lobbying that has been done by the National Country Party to stop margarine taking its rightful place in the diet of our community. Quotas and the like have been completely discriminatory. I wonder to what extent the work of this Parliament has been influenced by the lobby against margarine and in favour of butter. I would like  Senator Webster,  on behalf of the National Country Party, to reply to  Senator McLaren  and to say why his Party is able to play 2 hands, to almost carry out a doublecross, or to have 2 bob each way.  Senator McLaren  put up a proposal to promote a more spreadable form of butter which will compete against margarine. Why has the National Country Party for so long opposed the open sale and availability of margarine on the Australian market for people who prefer it to butter? I think it is time we opened up this subject. The rump of politics, the National Country Party, has been pushing butter as against margarine, but then is not prepared to adopt an attitude when butter manufacturers put up a case. There is still a blank wall. I think it is about time that the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry had something to say in the Senate on behalf of his Party. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Can the Minister for Education inform the Senate of the projected completion date for the construction of the Maritime College in Launceston, Tasmania? If he can, when are the first students likely to be enrolled at the College? 
-It was 18 February 1974. 
Yes, it is still the same date. I should like to give honourable senators some of the background to this matter. I will round off the story and deal with some of the history of the matter since  Senator Harradine  was asked at a meeting of the Federal Executive of the Australian Labor Party whether he was a member of the National Civic Council. He denied it. It was then found that a  Mr Harradine  was an executive member of the Democratic Labour Party in South Australia before he came to Tasmania.  Senator Harradine  broke down, cried and said: 'No, that was my dead brother'. However he came to Tasmania and since then he has used the Tasmanian political and industrial movement - 
-The Conciliation and Arbitration Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1976 relates to the method of election of officers of registered organisations. In the opening words of the second reading speech of the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack)  we get an indication of the duplicity of this legislation. The Minister said: 
All members of Parliament are, I am sure, committed to democratic control of trade unions and employer organisations. 
It is news to me that we have any authority or any responsibility for employer organisations. The Minister went on to say: 
The cornerstone of democratic control is membership participation. 
There are many people on the stock exchange and investors in many of the employer organisations today who are feeling the cold, wintry winds of manipulation of employer organisations. 
The present method of electing officers of trade unions is by direct ballot of eligible members. This, to me, is the personification of democracy. The general rule of one man one vote is accepted throughout this country. This should be carried through into every branch of our democratic life. The Bill provides that part-time officers can be elected on the one-tier collegiate system if they so qualified 3 years ago, but that qualification would not be extended after the end of November. It is for that reason that this legislation is being introduced- to turn back the clock to the times before 1973 when we were in government and amended this legislation. 
The Opposition opposes this Bill for many reasons. It is my view that the Government has done a complete somersault on its promises during the campaign for election in December last year, when it made non-interference with trade union affairs part of its platform. I have been a ticket carrying member of the Miscellaneous Workers Union for a number of years. I have had some personal experience of what has been happening in the trade union movement through the actions of certain groups of people. I think a debate such as this gives an opportunity to explain some of these tactics to the Senate. Government supporters come into this chamber and pose as experts on these matters. One seldom hears them speak about any action being taken with regard to employer organisations. I have yet to hear of any. The attack is always on the trade union movement. The term 'union bashing' has never been so evident in the history of Australia as it is at present. With the assistance of this legislation and with the assistance of this Government certain people will operate in an even more vicious way. These people are a narrow and religiously bigoted small percentage of the community who make up the extreme right wing of a semi-fascist, anti-semitic National Civic Council that is being used for the self-aggrandisement and glorification of Santamaria, Maynes and  Senator Harradine.  Their tactics consist of any conceivable method- lies, deceit, defamation, libel and false witness. All come in their box of tricks. It is the dirty tricks section of the trade union movement. 
Yes, false witness; it is true.  Senator Harradine  cited a case, without any backing, about Maynes and $50,000. Under the privilege of the Parliament he made, as was said before, a dreadful attack on a man. Such accusations should be made in the courts of the country.  Senator Harradine  initiated such accusations in this chamber. 
Yes, only because the man is standing for a democratic election in Queensland- a man trying to defend himself against the infiltration of people like  Senator Harradine.  However, unlike  Senator Harradine,  I will not be deterred. I will make my own speech.  Senator Harradine  has had the political and industrial movement in Tasmania in turmoil for about 10 years. I should like to relate to the 
Senate part of an interview on the Australian Broadcasting Commission television program  This Day Tonight  in Hobart on 18 February 1974. The compere of the program was John Forster. After a long interview with  Mr Harradine,  as he was at that time- before he became a senator- he was asked one question before the interview concluded. The interviewer said: 
Well, we have nearly run out of time. Can I ask you one last question: Are you now or have you ever been a member of the National Civic Council? 

 Senator Harradine replied: 
-My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to a statement by  Sir Reginald  Ansett, the Managing Director of Ansett Airlines of Australia, that Mascot Airport is inadequate as an overseas terminal airport and that civil air transport, both overseas and domestic, will be seriously disadvantaged by these inadequacies? In view of the short term smash and grab tactics that were used by the Liberal and National Country Parties, when in Opposition, in their climb to power in inflaming public opinion against the construction of a satellite airport for Sydney at some other site - 
-Such as Galston; what does the Government now intend to do about the obvious and growing deficiences at Mascot Airport? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Industry and Commerce. Is the Minister aware of statements by the  President  of the Construction Equipment Manufacturers of Australia that there is now a virtual standstill in the construction industry? Can the Minister confirm the accuracy of this statement in the light of a fall-off in government building approvals over 1976? Will the Minister give some indication of when the Government intends to increase the number and scope of capital works in order to stem the economic problems in the building industry and arrest the trend of increasing unemployment? 
-Will the Minister for Industry and Commerce inform the Senate and the nation of the power he has to counter, or the action he intends to take to counter, the 1  7lA  per cent increase in prices that retailers in Sydney, Melbourne and Canberra were busily marking up this morning? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Industry and Commerce,  Senator Cotton.  I draw the Minister's attention to an article in the  Australian Financial Review  by Robert Hangst which refers to the export of beef to the United States. The article states that in American eyes Australia 'beat the system' of meat import restrictions next year, so next year will be different. It goes on to say that the American Administration wants to deal with an official who can negotiate on Australia's behalf and wants to have the matter of beating the system resolved by the end of December. Three things rankle with the American administration: They are Australia's use of the loophole of the Puerto Rico free trade zone under virtually false labelling, Australia's reluctance to deal with the problem of low priced Australian beef going into Canada and the influence this in turn has on the American market. I ask: Why did the Minister's advisers, in a recent letter to me, deny that some Australian exporters are trying to beat the system and are disadvantaging the legitimate exporters of Australian beef to the United States? Will the Minister re-examine my request and warn these exporters who are using roughhouse tactics that their questionable conduct will not be tolerated and, if necessary, withdraw their export licences? 
My question to the Minister for Social Security relates to unemployed school leavers. Will all applications for special benefit payable to unemployed school leavers in lieu of unemployment benefit be sent to Canberra for determination by the Director-General, or will State offices of the Department of Social Security be given responsibility for making the decision on whether hardship exists? 

 - Mr President, I am a bit concerned that  Senator Cotton  is not here but a Minister of his sensitivity probably would want to be absent at a time like this when the Government is reaching its proper level of public criticism. However I am game enough to ask the Leader of the Government,  Senator Withers,  a question. I remind him quickly that on 28 November the Treasury announced a 17.5 per cent devaluation. On the next day the Prime Minister said there would be no tariff cuts. On 1 December a tariff review was promised on imports not competitive with Australian made goods. On 2 December interest rates rose. On 7 December the Australian dollar was upvalued, the Cabinet decided on tariff cuts and abolished the Treasury. Has not this Government, which obtained office by a series of questionable confidence tricks only 12 months ago, now found that retribution has set in and that the people of Australia and the business community, are in a state of abject uncertainty? When can the people of Australia expect someone to turn on a kindly light to show the way amid the encircling gloom? 
-We have heard a despicable, paranoic attack by a person who, since he came over as a drop-out from the Jesuits in South Australia, has never done a constructive thing in his life except bludge on the Tasmanian workers. He has disrupted the political and industrial life in Tasmania since he has been there. He had the temerity to talk about the right of members of this Parliament to place a wreath in a sacred memorial of this nation to commemorate the loss of 5 journalists who were assassinated by the invaders of East Timor. They were Australian journalists. These people wished to commemorate also the valiant assistance that the East Timorese gave to the Australians who fought against the Japanese, against the fascists who threatened to over-run this country. If ever I heard a fascist speak I heard the quintessence of one tonight. 
I will withdraw that. I will repeat what was once said by a senator from the other side of the chamber that if you quack like a duck, if you waddle like a duck and if you look like a duck you must be a duck. I am addressing a duck. As long as I am in the Parliament and there are people on this side of the Parliament, there will be people who will try to uphold the traditions that this country has always stood for. 
He is not concerned. He is a very mischievious man. He is a destructive man. He is a negative man. He is an insidious man. I have had a lot of experience with this man in Tasmania. I know the influence that he has had on both industrial and political life in that State. But Tasmania is now relieved of him because he is in this Parliament where he is absolutely negative. He is a nothing here. The people he should be with do not want him. He is certainly never recognised on this side of the House. 
I would not inflict him on you. I would not inflict him on my worst enemy. 
No, he has not hurt me. I had the privilege yesterday of being at that memorial. I also had the privilege before  Senator Baume  's time of doing a job to defend people of his religion. I have seen people of his religion being persecuted by people of a superior race, of similar ilk to  Senator Harradine,  who tried to tread the people of  Senator Baume  's religion into the ground. I have also lived to see people of his religion try to inflict the same thing on other people whom they have dominated. So  Senator Baume  is not in a position to interject too much in this debate. 
I want to answer the charge that  Senator Harradine  has made against those people who attended the ceremony at the War Memorial and to challenge the right of the Board of Trustees of the War Memorial to allow people to go in all sincerity to lay a wreath on the Stone of Remembrance. 
The Hungarians had nothing to do with us. They did not fight with us. The Hungarians wanted to bring their own racial problems into Australia and to use the War Memorial. That was forbidden by the provisions of legislation governing the operations of the War Memorial. It was within the rights of members of the Parliament and people in the Canberra community to attend the laying of a wreath on the Stone of Remembrance for the simple reason that it commemorated the participation of Australians in the war against the Japanese in East Timor. That was mentioned by  Mr Uren,  the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition in the other place, during the course of his few remarks. 
-He was a prisoner of war of the Japanese. He appreciated the assistance given to the Australians by the East Timorese to liberate him.  Mr Uren  was captured in Timor and he has a great sympathy for the Timorese.  Senator Harradine  's remarks are indicative of his mentality. This man wants to support a militarist regime which is in power in Indonesia at present. Indonesia has exercised its militarist power to overcome an ethnic group of people who should have been given the right of selfdetermination. Those people were let down by Australia. We should have been there to aid them. We have shirked our responsibilities in Timor. Those people were with us through thick and thin during that great war of defence against the Japanese. As one of those people - 
We could bet where he would be. He would be in B company; he would be there when others went away and he would be there when they came back. I defend the right- a right which has been attacked tonight by  Senator Harradine-  of my colleagues to attend a cermony in all sincerity to commemorate the sacrifice of Australian journalists. I defend the right of people to commemorate the anniversary of the death of Australian journalists in East Timor, to pay our homage and our tribute to the work and assistance that the East Timorese people gave to the Australian forces, and also as a mark of our disapproval of a power which Australia assisted in getting independence. We assisted the Indonesian people to get their independence from the Dutch, to free themselves from the domination and colonial policy of the Dutch. We assisted them towards their independence. They have betrayed that trust that was reposed in them by themselves acting as colonialists over these people in East Timor. 

 Senator Harradine raised this matter tonight and it was a cheap and miserable political gimmick on his part to try to get some publicity in the Hobart  Mercury.  That is his only means of existence. That one miserable Hobart newspaper builds him up. That is what he was talking to tonight in the Senate. He has not impressed anyone. He has degraded himself and degraded the National Civic Council of which he has been an undercover member for so long. For years and years this man has been a hypocrite - 
-Well, in deference to you,  Mr President,  I will withdraw that word if you so request it. I would like to say a few words about the New Guard if I had the time. I could talk about the honourable senator's father in the New Guard. That was another Fascist organisation. But he has gone and I will keep that for another day. 
The honourable senator looks as though they could be swinging in the trees. A charge has been made against the trustees of the Australian War Memorial and against people who went there to a wreath laying ceremony in good faith. For them to be attacked like this is beneath contempt. However, I suppose that when we are dealing with contemptible people we have to expect contemptible conduct. It is in that way that I answer his contemptible charge. 
I would just like to draw the attention of the Senate to the fact that there was a pressman present at the memorial service. 

 - Mr Tom Connors. 
He is working for the Melbourne  Age  at the moment. 
He took a tape of it. I think that perhaps if this nauseating humbug from  Senator Harradine,  whose only object is to obtain - 
Government senators interjecting- 
-My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I draw the attention of the Minister to a statement that the Roman Catholic Commission for Justice and Peace reportedly in letters to the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs has pointed out the serious conflict between the Australian Government's recent action and its stated policy on East Timor. As reports paint a grim picture of a territory disrupted by conflict and military occupation and the decimation of the population with an estimated 100 000 Timorese killed in the invasion and occupation, will the Minister give the Senate an assurance that the Government will clearly and unambiguously restate its policy on East Timor? 
-by leave-I intended to raise this matter on the adjournment tonight or to ask a question about it. I apologise to the Senate that I did not give it greater priority. I am concerned about a discussion that took place between myself and the High Commissioner for India. He and members of the diplomatic corps attached to the Indian High Commission are being harassed and intimidated by a group of people. This has been going on for some time. The staff of the Commission are very upset about these activities. I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs to have this matter investigated so that the people of the High Commission can expect the traditional courtesy and- to a degree- privilege in their host country. 
Can the Minister for Administrative Services give any information on the matter I raised yesterday concerning the intimidation and harassment of the Indian High Commissioner in Canberra, members of his staff at the High Commission and also the families of these people? Is he aware that serious thought is being given to the withdrawal by India, one of the world's most populous nations, of its diplomatic representation in Australia as a result of this matter? Will the Minister advise what action has been taken to investigate the serious complaints by the Indian High Commissioner? In view of the urgency, will the Minister make a statement to the Senate on the situation before the Senate rises? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Overseas Trade the following question on 1 December 1976, without notice: 
I draw the Minister's attention to an article in the Australian Financial Review by Robert Haupt which refers to the export of beef to the United States. The article states that in American eyes Australia 'beat the system' of meat import restrictions next year, so next year will be different. It goes on to say that the American Administration wants to deal with an official who can negotiate on Australia's behalf and wants to have the matter of beating the system resolved by the end of December. Three things rankle with the American Administration: They are Australia's use of the loophole of the Puerto Rico free trade zone under virtually false labelling, Australia's reluctance to deal with the problem of low priced Australian beef going into Canada and the influence this in turn has on the American market. I ask: Why did the Minister's advisers, in a recent letter to me, deny that some Australian exporters are trying to beat the system and are disadvantaging the legitimate exporters of Australian beef to the United States? Will the Minister re-examine my request and warn these exporters who are using roughhouse tactics that their questionable conduct will not be tolerated and, if necessary, withdraw their export licences? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence and relates to allegations in the United States of America, particularly in the  Washington Post,  that sub-standard parts have been sold to foreign military forces which use United States parts in their helicopter fleets. I ask the Minister whether he has any information for the Senate which would confirm or deny that any of these sub-standard parts were used by our defence forces and were responsible for 2 Royal Australian Navy Sea King helicopter crashes in recent times. Have investigations been initiated to ascertain whether there is any link between the sub-standard parts and those crashes? If not, will the Defence Department take some action to institute an inquiry into the matter? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Defence whether he can give the Senate some clarification of the reasons for the delay in correcting anomalies in the Defence Forces Retirement and Death Benefits Act 1973, particularly the no-detriment provisions? Will he also advise whether the amendments, if and when they are made, will provide for retrospectivity from the time of the introduction of the scheme? When can the amendments to the DFRDB Act be expected to be introduced? 
-We on the Opposition side in this Chamber and in the Parliament welcome these amendments to the Defence Force Retirement and Death Benefits Act 1973 because they bring about a long awaited alteration to the Act which was anomalous inasmuch as there was certain delay in the introduction of pensions as other pensions were adjusted. This Bill provides for the payment of pensions to be equated to the consumer price index which will give a lot of satisfaction to many ex-servicemen who had hoped that this equation would take place. The Bill also provides for retrospectivity to apply to the first pension pay day in July of last year. It means that automatic adjustments of pensions  will  be made in the future. These will operate from the first pension pay day in July of each year. This amendment makes it no longer necessary for separate Acts of Parliament to be introduced each year. I raise a matter while we are debating this Bill. I hope the Government has it well in its mind. It was referred to in the last portion of the second reading speech of the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers)  when he stated: 
It was intended also to provide in this Bill benefical amendments to section 25 of the Defence Force Retirement and Death Benefits Act designed to remove an anomaly  affecting certain officers who were detrimentally affected by thier transer to the DFRDB scheme in October 1972. 
The Minister drew attention to the drafting difficulties and said that they had raised a number of complex and technical points which would take some time to iron out. He said that the updating provisions were being introduced and that the drafting of the amendments to section 25 of the Act was proceeding for introduction as quickly as possible. The anomaly to which I referred concerns those servicemen who were forced for economic reasons to freeze their contributions under the old DFRB scheme because of the very high rate of contributions which were required. In some cases people were contributing as much as 9 per cent of their pay instead of the 5.5 per cent which, at that time, was required to enter into the new DFRDB scheme and similar schemes. So those people who were forced to freeze their contributions have remained ever since in that frozen state. That means that instead of receiving 55 per cent or 56 per cent of their salary as a pension they receive under 50 per cent. Therefore there is a shortfall of up to 7 per cent, or up to $1,100 a year less pension, for people who are in this situation. 
The matter of commutation is, I believe, under consideration by the Government. It needs rectifying because there is an anomaly there. However an assurance has been given by the Minister for Administrative Services that this matter is being looked into and I am certain that those people who have made representations to members and senators and have aired their grievances on many occasions will find that at last these matters are being ironed out. I raised this matter with the Minister recently and I would like some indication from him that this specific section of servicemen who froze their payments at that time are being cared for not only in this legislation but apart from this legislation. The Opposition supports the measure. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Defence: Has the Minister any knowledge of the use of 4 ex-Royal Australian Air Force Sabre jets that were given to Malaysia by Australia and are now in East Timor in use by the Indonesian Air Force? Did the Government ask for or receive any guarantees that these gift Sabres would not be used in East Timor? Further, has the Minister any information relating to the use of Nomad aircraft by the Indonesian armed forces in East Timor? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. By way of preface, I state that I was particularly impressed by the spectacular parade of 1600 service men and women in the Silver Jubilee Review by the Queen in front of Parliament House on Tuesday. I was most impressed with the high level of practised precision of the parade, the fly past by Royal Australian Air Force aircraft and the splendid performance of the combined bands. I ask the Minister: Will he advise the Senate whether it is possible, after consultation with his colleagues in the Cabinet, to strike a jubilee medal as a mark of appreciation from the people of Australia to those who took part in such a memorable parade? 
-I should like to be associated with the motion of condolence on the death of John Armstrong. He was a member of this chamber for a number of years, and he served the Senate and his country with great distinction. It can be truly said that John Armstrong was a distinguished and respected citizen of Australia who had a profound sense of public service. He was one of the youngest men ever to enter the Senate. He brought to the Senate some knowledge of local government, which stood him in very good stead during his time here. 
I first met him in 1 946. He had then been a senator for 8 years. I found him then to be very aware of the situation in which a young man coming into this chamber found himself, in needing a friend, a counsellor and an adviser. I saw him regularly take on this role. Whenever young people came into the Senate he virtually would take them under his wing, not only to show them the physical side of the Senate but also to give them some very sound and well balanced advice that money could not buy. It is very interesting that John Armstrong should continue the tremendous tradition that Balmain has established in the life of Australia. On many occasions we hear references to people who have come right through the whole gamut of being a typical Australian, many of whom started their lives on the bottom rung of the ladder and achieved the highest possible level of success. This illustrates not only that Australia offers that opportunity to its sons but also that its sons have that opportunity available to them. 
John Armstrong was a man who seemed to have the golden touch. He was referred to earlier as the 'Golden Barman'. He had the ability, having battled away in a bar and having taken on the job of pouring drinks, mixing drinks, mixing with people and looking after his job well, to make that an honourable calling. He carried on in the tradition of his parents, who often found that the opportunities of their time only opened up such places as required them to work hard in hotels and the like to make a living. But that is another story. John Armstrong was the progeny of fine Irish stock. Many of them, of course, have become the very core of Australian citizenship today. He had a golden touch about him. In everything that he set out to do he seemed to have the touch of success. That has been spoken of and reiterated already in outlining the various phases of his life. In every field to which he applied his talents he did so with grace, charm and dignity.  His  record has been recited. I remember him well when in the Chifley Government he was Minister for Munitions and then Minister for Supply. Although that was a time of scarcity and rationing and Australia had come through a very difficult period, he was able to make some concessions that I hope the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Withers)  will try to emulate. John Armstrong carried out his job as Minister for Supply with great capacity. He proved himself to be an able administrator. He was very highly respected by all those people in the Public Service with whom he came in contact. He carried with him a confidence that was quite refreshing. 
I knew him closely in his family life.  His  wife 's uncle was the headmaster of my school in Launceston. I knew his wife's family. I knew him and his wife when they were first married and I saw their little family come along. He was a wonderful husband and father- generous and understanding but firm. He had, as I say, a sense of humour. He was always able to bring some relief into the most serious situation through his capacity to exercise his sense of humour. He was a tremendously generous host and was able to enjoy to the utmost not only the pleasure of giving hospitality but also the company of his friends. It has already been mentioned that John Armstrong was a good sportsman. He excelled as a boxer but he also played a very good round of golf and was an almost fanatical bowler. In all those fields he had a wide circle of friends. 
Besides his sporting interests he was a patron of the arts. Those who knew John Armstrong in his own home realised the great sense of artistic values he possessed in the beauty of the collection of works of art in his home.  His  attainment of the positions of Lord Mayor of his own city of Sydney and High Commissioner in London has already been mentioned. I can remember well sitting in the Senate- I was possibly in breach of Standing Orders- and discussing with John Armstrong the possibilities of an Australian Order in the future. We discussed different names. He believed that this was something Australia should develop in order to express itself as a nation. It is a great coincidence and a great pity that on the very eve of his passing he should have seen this Order conferred on so many worthy Australian citizens and should have received it himself. I am certain that this would have been a great culmination to a life well spent in the service of his fellow men. 
To his wife Joan and to his family I offer my very deepest sympathy in the great loss they have sustained. I pray that his wife will have the courage and the fortitude that will be necessary for her to overcome the tremendous burden of sorrow that is on her. I assure her that I personally and those other honourable senators who knew John Armstrong will always remember him with profound respect and admiration for having fulfilled the work of a good and faithful servant of Australia. 

 Senator MULVIHILL (New South Wales)All previous tributes have been based on the late  Senator John  Armstrong in triumph. The tribute I pay to him is based on what he suffered in adversity. In 1960 the then officers of the New South Wales branch of the Australian Labor Party, of which I was one, introduced a collegiate system. Out of 54 candidates John Armstrong was narrowly defeated. I think it speaks volumes for the capacity of the man that in similar circumstances most people would have squealed, whimpered or sulked. I met John Armstrong a week after that ballot and his first words were: 'If there is any way that I can serve the officers of the New South Wales Labor Party just ask me'. As  Senator Douglas  McClelland pointed out, he subsequently served in numerous capacities. I think honourable senators know that in any big city duties without much glamour have to be performed. I know that the Sydney County Council was one of those instrumentalities that needed meticulous administration. John Armstrong performed his duties until destiny gave him the position he desired, that of the Australian High Commissioner in London. 
The only other anecdote which I think is relevant relates to the small duties he performed.  Senator Douglas  McClelland referred to the way he received his assignment in 1948 as Minister in charge of the proposed Royal Tour. Another story is told in the Concord area where I live. That district has a large percentage of gas workers, waterside workers and railway workers. In the early postwar years, a tremendous gale occurred and houses and fences were battered. Some of those houses were war service homes. As  Senator Wriedt  will appreciate, the then Minister for Repatriation in the Labor Government was Charlie Frost, who was a big, powerful man but who did not relish meeting an army of 50 angry women seeking to learn who would repair the houses and the fences since the War Service Homes Commissioner was not noted for speedy decisions. It so happened that my mother was one of those 50 irate women. She was not backward at handing out criticism. I can remember asking her: 'How did you get on?' She said 'Well, when that  Senator Armstrong  gave us that big smile, we were content to listen to him '. That was the  Senator Armstrong  we knew. Yesterday I represented my colleague, the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition,  Senator Keeffe,  at John Armstrong's funeral. I paid his respects and my respects to Joan Armstrong. The reply I received from that woman was symbolic of the attitude of the Armstrong family. She said: 'Look Tony, on Tuesday night he saw all his old friends; that was the way John would have liked to go out '. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate in his capacity as Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I draw the attention of the Minister to a report appearing in the Brisbane  Courier-Mail  under a Bonn, Germany, dateline of 16 March 1977 to the effect that a West German court at Baden- -Wurttemberg after 2 years litigation had cancelled planning permission and imposed a permanent ban on the construction of a nuclear power station on the grounds of inadequate safety precautions and serious reservations about plans for evacuating the area in the event of a break-down. In view of the warning in the Fox report that adequate time should be given for debate on nuclear power, will the Minister obtain from our Embassy in Germany details of these court proceedings, which lasted over 2 years, and table them in the Senate so that honourable senators who have grave doubts about the safety aspects of nuclear power can study them prior to this country's being involved in a similar situation? 
I direct my question to  Senator Guilfoyle  in her capacity as the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. I refer the Minister to a question asked yesterday in the Senate by  Senator Knight  which related to East Timorese refugees. The Minister said in her reply: 
The figure given by  Mr Dunn  concerning the proportion of refugees who are said to have relatives in Australia overstates the total as known to the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. A closer estimate would be that between 5 per cent and 10 per cent have claimed relationships with Australian residents . . . 
Can the Minister explain how the information was presented to her because information supplied to the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs in December by the East Timorese Refugees Committee stated that there were 794 persons with relatives in Australia, which is approximately 50 per cent of the total number of refugees? Does the Minister believe that the inaccuracy in her statement could have been created by the fact that until recently the East Timorese refugees in Portugal had the benefit of only a monthly visit by an Australian official from Madrid? Would the Minister remind her adviser in the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs that the Senate expects accurate information in answer to questions asked in this chamber? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs and refers to the situation in East Timor, which has been raised already by  Senator Primmer.  I point out to the Minister that the eyes of the world are on 
Australia in this matter, which is at present before a congressional committee in the United States. It appears that information is being given to that committee that was not fully made known to the Australian Parliament. I ask the Minister: Is it true that the Government does not consider the East Timorese to be refugees but to be evacuees? Can the Minister explain the meaning of the term 'evacuees' and differentiate between it and the word 'refugees'? Will the Minister reconsider the heartless application of medical grounds for rejection of applications, especially as effective medical treatment for these people does exist here? Further, will the Minister review the occupational criterion that is applied in order to adopt a more humanitarian attitude towards this tragic problem? 
I seek some further advice from the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack)  as to whether it can be taken that this motion to adjourn the debate and make it an order of the day for the next day of sitting will mean that the matter will be placed on the notice paper and not debated until some convenient time in the future, as this is often what occurs. I think the issues that are involved here are much more serious than some people realise. Firstly, there is the issue raised by  Senator Sim  that he suspected that someone had taken a document from his room. That in itself is a serious charge because the offices of honourable senators in this Parliament should be inviolate. There is no way of getting around that. If any complaint is made, not only should security be checked, but also a method should be devised for improving security. 
The other matter involved is the publication of that document. I thought you were very generous,  Mr President,  to those people who published the document. This has brought to a head a matter which needed to be brought before the Senate and the public. The people of this country should not tolerate the practice of documents being leaked, documents being stolen and people publishing information to which they have no right. I take this as a part of the whole campaign by the Press to try to run the country and the Parliament. It has been doing this for a long time. In fact, it used this method so effectively against the Labor Government that eventually it was able to destroy that Government. The point is this: During the time that I was the Presiding Officer there was a case of a person from the Press Gallery being caught in the office of the then Prime Minister. He eventually lost his Press pass for Parliament House. It was a very harsh penalty; his Press pass was actually his livelihood. But it should be well known to people in the Press gallery that it is a great privilege for them to be able to come into the Parliament. That should be brought home to them. 
The main point I wish to make is that the editor of the  Age,  in instructing his agent in Canberra not to write to you,  Mr President,  because you were generous enough to make a simple decision about the whole case, Was contemptuous of the Parliament- the Presiding Officer and, in effect, the Senate itself. That is why this matter should be considered as soon as possible. A time should be set on the next day of sitting for this issue to be debated. I hope that the Minister will be seized with the serious nature of this matter and give us an assurance that as soon as the ordinary business of questions and other matters is over on the next day of sitting this matter will come up for clarification. The sooner it is cleared up the better it will be for all of us. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Is the Minister aware that the Health Insurance Commission reported that the average cost of processing assigned benefits by way of bulk billing was 34c per claim compared with 44c for each cash claim and $1.14 for each 'pay doctor cheque' claim? Is the Minister also aware that the average delay in service and payment of claims is 89.2 days for claimant cheque claims, 57.7 days for cash claims and only 28.8 days for assigned benefit or bulk billing claims? Do not these statistics suggest that the cost of processing medical benefit claims and the delay in payment of claims would increase greatly if bulk billing facilities for medical services were abolished? 

 -Mr President, I claim to have been misrepresented and I seek leave to make a personal explanation. 
I also continue the debate for the purpose of allowing the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Senator Durack)  to reach some reasonable solution to this problem. As I understand the amendment, it is intended that we add to clause 6 (3) a provision that the clause shall not apply to an act to rescue victims of hijackers. I was under the impression that the Minister had suggested that consideration of the clause be postponed. I want to have on record my view that this amendment has very grave implications because we have to consider such things as the territorial integrity of a country in which the hijacked plane lands. There may be no proof that the country has given refuge to that plane. No time limit is provided. I believe this should be given deep consideration before it is put into legislative form. I hope the Minister will adjourn this debate and refer the matter for consideration by the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. 
My question, which is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate, is related to the one previously asked by  Senator Brown.  I refer to reports in the  Australian Financial Review  that a meeting was held on 8 November 1975 between the GovernorGeneral and a senior Department of Defence official. Can the Leader of the Government in the Senate inform the Senate whether such a meeting did occur on or near that date? What was the substance of any such discussion? Did it include matters relating to United States concern about changes in Australian security arrangements? Is the Leader of the Government in the Senate prepared to table a record of the conversation or a summary of the contents of such a meeting? 

 -Mr President, I ask for leave of the Senate to make a short statement. 
I thank the Senate for granting leave. I very briefly refer to the sad event of the passing of a great friend and colleague of mine, Albion (Bert) Hendrickson. I am certain he was also a friend of honourable senators who knew him. As you mentioned in your announcement,  Mr President,  Bert Hendrickson served in the Senate from 1947 until 1 97 1 . He came here with a background of a wide experience of life and he made some very sound and sincere contributions to the debates in the Senate. He was born in the vicinity of Maryborough in Victoria and went to school in Maryborough. He joined the Postmaster General's Department and was a life member of the Amalgamated Postal Workers Union. During the war years he was secretary to the Minister for Trade and Customs. He was elected to the Senate in 1946 and he took his seat in 1947. During his time here he served on numerous committees and generally was a very highly respected member of this chamber. He made a sound contribution to the debates here and in the party room and on the administrative side of the Australian Labor Party in Victoria where he was held in very high esteem. I take this opportunity of placing on record my sincere sorrow at his passing. I wish to convey to his widow, his son and daughters, the sincere appreciation of the Senate for the contribution which he made and for the sterling service which he gave to the Senate and to his country. 

 Honourable senators having stood in their places- 

-I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I refer to the allegations of CIA involvement in Australian politics and trade unions. The Minister no doubt is aware of the statement made by the Prime Minister on 27 April that he would see what information might be available. Is this information available? If not, when will it be released to the Senate so that we can ascertain the veracity of these grave allegations concerning interference by another country in the internal affairs of Australia? 
-Is the Leader of the Government in the Senate aware of an investigation by the United States Justice Department into the allegations of interference in Australian politics by the Central Intelligence Agency? Will he state whether the inquiry promised by the Prime Minister has proceeded and what information has been gathered? Will the Government institute a full public inquiry into this grave matter of foreign interference in Australian domestic affairs? 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. In answer to a question from  Senator Kilgariff  he said that later there was to be a report on Government policy on intelligence and security. Will he state whether the report is accurate that  Mr Agee,  a former Central Intelligence Agency employee, will not be granted a visa to enter Australia if he applies? In view of the serious nature of statements made by  Mr Agee  does the Government not believe that his presence in Australia could be of benefit in inquiring into recent allegations of CIA interference in Australia 's political and industrial affairs? 
Can the Minister for Social Security give an assurance that the entitlement of women to the age pension which now commences at 60 years will not be changed to 65 years in the near future? 
I ask a question of the Minister for Administrative Services which is of deep concern to me and I am sure it concerns the vast majority of honourable senators and the Australian people. The question relates to reports that staff of the Australian War Memorial, particularly conservators and restorers, have been so poorly paid that some of them have left to go to State museums and that there is great difficulty in recruiting people to look after the art works in the War Memorial. There is also a report that there is a deterioration in the condition of irreplaceable art works and historical paintings and other items in the War Memorial collection. In view of the position very dear to the heart of our unique national heritage held by the Australian War Memorial, will the Minister give the Senate an unequivocal assurance that, despite so-called economy cuts, there will be a searching inquiry into all aspects of conservation and preservation at the War Memorial with a view to staffing adequately the section involved in the preservation and conservation of art works in the War Memorial? 
-I too would like to elaborate a little on this matter which I raised today at question time. Although I realise there is an awareness of the lack of available skilled conservators who are needed to catch up with the backlog and virtual neglect of many of those priceless cultural objects in the Australian War Memorial I do feel that even greater emphasis should be placed on the urgency to do something more drastic than we have so far been given to understand is being done. The reports in the Press say that we are seeking these skilled people overseas but I know there are 2 people in Tasmania who have had considerable experience in conservation work. They are both qualified conservators and restorers. Their training includes experience in Australia and in the United Kingdom. I know too that they have applied for positions. They are in private work in Hobart. Their work is considered to be of tremendously high calibre but their services have not been used. 
It is a very interesting situation when the services of people with most impressive qualifications, people with training in England and Australia, are not used in this country at a time when, as the Minister for Administrative Services has said, there is a scarcity of these people. I would like- perhaps I should do it at an official level- to make representations to the Minister to ensure that the qualifications of these people are examined. I suppose they would be processed by the Minister's Department. If we can get people of this calibre into the War Memorial to get on with the job I think we can arrest the reported deterioration. I hope that it will be made a special cause despite the fact that the Government is hoping to practise economies and ceilings in many directions. 
This matter of conservation is one that just will not wait for attention. The deterioration is a continuing process. Unless it is arrested and unless these works are restored and kept under constant supervision, we will be losing items of importance and we will be recreant to a very great trust that is imposed on us to see that they are maintained for posterity. This is perhaps one of those cases where we are inclined to under-estimate the intrinsic value of some memorial of the feats of valour that have been captured by some great artists. The people depicted will never live again. The events will probably never happen again. To some people who are not as sensitive as others, they might be just paintings. But to other people they represent very precious segments of the history of our country that is completely irreplaceable and that should be given a very high priority. 
I accentuate and stress this matter now in the hope that every possible avenue will be explored to see whether we cannot come to grips with this problem, despite whatever the Pitt Street and Collins Street stock exchange people think or whatever the indicators on the charts show. This heritage is something that money cannot buy. Time, according to some of the reports that I have read, appears to be of the essence in the situation. This matter is more than just another irritant in the administration of the country. It is bigger than that. I hope that the fact that it has been debated to this extent at this time will make people even more aware of the importance of Australia coming to grips with this matter, catching up with the obvious backlog that exists and supervising the maintenance of these great historical objects in as good a condition as possible. I support what has been said already by  Senator Douglas  McClelland and  Senator Knight  and hope that the Government will give this matter the very highest priority to try to get the problem under control. 
-I add briefly to the observations and comments made by the previous speakers in relation to the very untimely passing of Allan Barnes. I personallythis view has been expressed by other honourable senators- had great admiration for Allan Barnes. I do not refer only to his great talents in journalism. On a personal level Allan 
Barnes had the very happy ability of always presenting a very pleasing side of his personality. He was a good conversationalist. He was a  bon vivant.  He was a happy man in so many ways that he commanded admiration and respect from very many people. I add to those sentiments that have already been expressed my very deep sympathy to the family he has left behind and who have lost such a wonderful father and citizen of this country. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education and concerns the increasing number of unemployed teachers in Australia. For example, in New South Wales there are 700 unemployed teachers and in Queensland the number of teachers registered as unemployed in March was 133. 1 ask the Minister: Does the Government have any policies designed to relieve this chronic human waste in skills? Does the Minister agree that the high percentage of classes in excess of 30 pupils is a major contributory cause to this high unemployment amongst the teaching profession? 
-My question is directed to the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs. Has he now realised that his socalled federalism pipedream that he puffed has floated off into the limbo of lost causes and that the State Premiers and some of his colleagues have treated it with the contempt that it deserves? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 24 March 1977: 
1 ) Is it correct that the Government does not consider the East Timorese people in Australia to be refugees but evacuees. 
What is the meaning of the term evacuees and can the Minister delineate how it differs from refugees. 
Will the Minister consider modifying the harsh application of medical grounds to reject applications from East Timorese people to enter Australia, given that effective medical facilities exist in this country for their treatment. 
Will the Minister review the occupational criteria that is applied in order to adopt a more humanitarian attitude to the tragic problem of these people. 
-I wish to associate myself with the motion of condolence to the relatives and friends of the late Senators Foll and Nicholls and the late  Sir Archibald  Grenfell Price. When I first came to the Parliament  Senator Foll  had already retired. He was a member of this place for a long period but at the time of his retirement there was a big political electoral swing resulting in the return of 33 Government senators and three Opposition senators.  Senator Foll  was defeated at that particular election.  His  name was still mentioned and he had created a very sound reputation for his contribution to the parliamentary life of this country. I did not have the pleasure of meeting  Sir Archibald  Grenfell Price but his reputation will live long after him. 
I did want to make special reference to and associate myself with the motion of condolence on the death of former  Senator Theo  Nicholls. 
When I first came to the Parliament,  Mr President,  he was  Chairman  of Committees under  Senator Gordon  Brown, the  President  of the Senate at that time. While occupying the positions of  Chairman  of Committees and  Deputy President, Senator Nicholls  always displayed a tremendous knowledge of the Standing Orders; he was reputed to be able to recite them verbatim. During his time in the chair he showed himself to be a most understanding and impartial presiding officer. 

 Senator Cavanagh has referred to the late  Senator Nicholls  's prodigious memory. There is no doubt about it; it had to be experienced to be believed. It was evident in his social life. He was a very good mixer and had a tremendous sense of humour. He was able to draw on a vast reservoir of legend and anecdote. Most of it was factual but he also had the ability to elaborate a little to make a good story. He was always entertaining. 
In relation to his ability to memorise a speech, I recall that on one occasion the late  Senator Critchley,  a colleague of his from South Australia, asked  Senator Nicholls  to take part in a debate because of some timing problem. As happened sometimes in the past- it does not happen much now- they wanted to fill in a certain amount of time.  Senator Nicholls  had to refer to another senator's speech on the subject. He had about a quarter of an hour to memorise his speech which lasted about 35 minutes. I sat in this back seat and  Senator Nicholls  was speaking from his seat near me. I sat with the  Hansard  copy of the original speech and checked it. It was absolutely word perfect down to the full stops and the pauses between sentences, indicating that he had this great gift. 
He was a very good family man and a good friend to all those who came into contact with him. When he left the Senate, it was poorer for his leaving. Now with his eventual passing at a great age the nation, too, is poorer for losing a very colourful and memorable citizen. I wish to convey to his relatives my personal sympathy. I am very pleased that his time in the Parliament and his contribution to the life of this nation are on record. 
My question is directed, more in sorrow than in anger, to the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. I have read a report of the Aboriginal Medical Service survey which speaks of 'an appalling starvation belt' amongst Aboriginals in Sydney, matched only by the most deprived communities of famine stricken Ethiopia or Biafra. The report alleges that more than 25 per cent of Sydney's Aboriginal children are suffering from serious malnutrition and that most of them have suffered permanent brain damage because of undernourishment. I ask the Minister whether it is a fact that the Aboriginal Medical Service has received no government funds since May of this year, although I understand that a grant equivalent to $20 a head has recently been announced by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs,  Mr Viner.  Why have these funds been cut off since May? The second part of my question relates to the statement by  Mr Peter  Johnson, the honourable member for Brisbane, when he said that Aboriginals are overfed and overprotected. Does not the Minister think that this extraordinary outburst of racism is deserving of censure by her Cabinet colleagues and by all Australian people? 
I shall be very brief in addressing the Senate on  a  matter that I feel should be drawn to the attention of honourable senators. I rise tonight for the purpose of  a  valedictory to  a  very well respected and long serving member of the staff ofthe Senate, Arthur Maxwell, who is on the eve of retirement after 30 years in the service of the Parliament. 
Arthur Maxwell joined the Joint House Department in 1947 and transferred to the Senate in 1950. For  a  number of years he served in the -n capacity of Senate Transport Officer. I do not think there would be any honourable senator here or any other senator who has been in this House over the years, who would not fully appreciate the service that is rendered by these loyal and devoted people who are transport officers. Arthur Maxwell served in various positions associated with the conduct of the business of the Senate. He became the Principal Attendant in 1958. Over the years he has been noted for the loyalty and conscientious service that he has rendered to the Senate. On occasions too numerous to mention he has gone out of his way, beyond the bounds of normal duty, to give thoughtful and personal service to individual senators. 
He became a father figure amongst his colleagues on the attendant staff. They have respected him very highly and sought the benefit of his experience and his judgment on many occasions. He always responded to the requests they made of him. 
Arthur Maxwell has also distinguished himself in that famous pastime followed by so many people who retire, that is, the sport of bowls. I hope that during his retirement he will find much of the happiness and the good fellowship that so many bowlers are able to achieve.  His  colleagues speak very highly of him and I feel that in drawing the attention of the Senate to his retirement we are doing a justice to him that he has richly earned in his long, loyal and devoted service to the Senate. By placing it on record in a small way we recognise the service that he has performed. 
-I should like to associate myself with this motion of condolence on the death of my colleague and friend, Rex Connor. Rex Connor was a great man in the true sense of the word. He was a great parent to his family and a great husband to his wife whom unfortunately he lost earlier this year. He was a great parliamentarian, a great statesman and a great Australian. When we have reason to speak thus of a man such as Rex Connor, the whole country must realise that we have lost one of our most outstanding citizens. I do not think that Australia or Australians have recovered sufficiently from the events that led up to the change of Government in 1975 to realise what a towering man Rex Connor was in his insistence that Australia and its resources should be for Australians. Because of his great capacity for research, he realised more than most the wealth in the mineral and off-shore petroleum resources of Australia. He knew that these resources would follow the way of all resources in all colonial countries unless a strong stand were taken. Rex Connor lived long enough to see, unfortunately, the beginning of the sell-out of those resources. Most of them are now in the hands of overseas owners and multinationals. The Australian people will have only the equity of the few jobs of the miners and the wood and water joeys. When the history of this great man is put in proper perspective, the people who belittled and denigrated him will be shown up for their dishonesty. 
Very few people in this country gave Rex Connor a fair go. The Press were absolutely cruel to him. Those who knew him, those who were close to him- and I sat next to him in our Party room for 8 years before we took office- knew him as a soft and kind man, a thoughtful man. The nicknames, 'The Strangler' and 'The 
Bruiser', were made up by the Press to denigrate this great man. He was not the type of fellow to press himself forward. He really was not an extroverted man. Because of this the Press took advantage of him and denigrated him. The people who run the country, the financiers, wanted to denigrate him because he was a threat to them. He told the truth about what the Australian people had as their heritage and how it should be developed for them and for future generations, including those who came to Australia from other countries to share it with us. He knew full well that unless someone spoke out in this way that heritage would follow the way of all our previous resources. That is what is happening today. Arrangements are being made to take our resources out of Australia and for us to get the least possible benefit from them. The arrangements that are being made for our benefit from our resources only amount to chicken feed. He was denigrated also by people in business. Some of the events that took place will be on record and I hope that historians will record them truthfully. I am certain that they will. Unfortunately, in the society in which we live many people die and leave us before their true worth is recognised. 
I pay this tribute to the man who, I believe, will be put down in the records of this country as being one of our most outstanding, courageous and idealistic men and one of our best visionaries. He was the man who saw the plan whereby Australia could become and remain one of the great continents and great nations on earth. Yet his word, his hopes and his ambitions were denigrated by many people. On an occasion like this when we all feel so sad about his passing, we can feel assured that if there is such a thing as everlasting life it comes when a man writes his name into his family and into the affairs of his fellow men. I believe that Rex Connor has done that with great credit and his name will remain written in bold letters in the history of this country. 
I suppose one can almost call this a continuation of a saga that has been running between  Senator Harradine  and the Labor Party in Tasmania. 
No. The Labor Party. 
-I disregard that remark. It is unworthy of the honourable senator and she knows it is untrue. However,  Senator Harradine  has seen fit to continue this farrago of smears, innuendoes and lies that he has perpetrated on the Tasmanian Labor Party since Bert Lacey first brought him in under false pretences to the Clerks Union and to the Lutana Branch in Tasmania. He was flushed out by a member of the Federal Executive who knew him to be a member of the National Civic Council in South Australia. 
Yes, a member of the Democratic Labor Party in South Australia. But not only that, Brian Harradine over the years has been known under several aliases in Tasmania. 
I should like to correct a situation that was created by  Senator Harradine  when he placed on the table a document purporting to be similar to the document I tabled last night. It is not a similar document. I do not know whether or not he has purposely distorted it. It is a different document altogether. I want to draw the attention of the Senate to the fact that the document purported by  Senator Harradine  to be the same as the document I tabled last night is not the same as the one he tabled today and had placed on record. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. As he does not read newspapers as a rule, I would like to draw his attention to a cartoon in this morning's  Australian  which depicts  Mr Ellicott  sitting at the table, writing out his resignation and saying to  Mr Fraser  'How do you spell principle?', and  Mr Fraser  replying 'Prince who?', indicating that there was a lack of principle in the whole issue. I refer the Minister to remarks made by  Mr Fraser  in his resignation speech on 9 March 1 97 1 when he said: 
. the Prime Minister heard reports on the impending  Telegraph  article that appeared on  2  March he in his own words sent for General Daly and assured him of support, thus violating the chains of command, chains of authority. 
Does the Minister not agree that the Prime Minister's action as revealed in  Mr Ellicott  's resignation speech, in speaking to the Solictor-General prior to consulting with the Attorney-General, was a clear breach of 'chains of command' and according to  Mr Fraser  's own previous stand was unprincipled? 
-by leave-I wish to make a short explanation and seek your ruling,  Mr President.  Having realised that the document from which I quoted would be controversial, I gave the document to the  Clerk  at the completion of the sitting. However, since you have tabled that document,  Mr President,  it has gone out of the hands of the  Clerk  and into  Senator Harradine  's hands.  Senator Harradine  has no right to that document until it is processed by the  Clerk,  and this matter was dealt with by the Standing Orders Committee. Yet  Senator Harradine,  who wishes to make use of this document in a matter in Tasmania, has taken it out of the hands of the  Clerk.  I believe that this is a complete contradiction of the spirit of the provisions relating to the tabling of documents, and I would like your ruling on it,  Mr President. 

 -Mr President, I seek leave to have the document which was tabled by me last night incorporated in  Hansard. 

 The document read as follows, the words in italics being in the handwriting of 
 Senator O'Byrne- 

STATEMENT RE BRIAN HARRADINE AND THE NATIONAL CIVIC COUNCIL 

 by J. P. Forrester, Branch Secretary, Federated Clerks' Union of Australia, Central and Southern Queensland Branch, to Branch Council 

I have been surprised over the last three years to read of the Harradine situation in the Tasmanian ALP and the protestations made on his behalf by a number of prominent personalities. As I am not a member of the Labor Party and have not been for some five' years, I have always felt  Mr Harradine  's relations with that party were the business of the ALP and Harradine himself. 
For what it is worth, I have always felt that the ALP was a little restrictive in rejecting for membership people of various independent and extremist groups and tended to overly limit its capacity to have an exchange of views within the party confines. I personally feel the ALP was a little silly expelling  Mr Harradine  for being a member of the National Civic Council. He is surely not the only member of the National Civic Council in the ALP and some former members who are now quite prominent were in the National Civic Council as they climbed to their present pre-eminence. 
What I find surprising though is these wide ranging denials of  Mr Harradine  's membership. As long back as 1 can remember, Brian Harradine has of course been a member of the National Civic Council, and as late as the Australian Day weekend in January 197S, he was still a member and in fact, quite a prominent one. I was one of a number of other Union officials who sat with him in Melbourne at Belloc House at Sakville Street, Kew at a national trade union meeting of the National Civic Council. These meetings occur each year at that time and this was not the first occasion on which  Mr Harradine  and I had been at these meetings. 
During 1970, the ACTU Interstate Executive met in Brisbane. Brian Harradine and Ted Goldsworthy (both NCC members and both members of Interstate Executive) attended and addressed a meeting of NCC industrial members and close contacts at New Farm. Both were introduced as NCC members, which, of course, they were. 
I have never accepted the rather naive National Civic Council approach of making heroes out of ordinary people. I believe  Mr Harradine,  while a Union Official, did a fairly effective industrial job in Tasmania. To say this does not mean that one must accept the 'bleeding heart' martyr syndrome which grew up about Brian and his relationships with the left wing'. I have always thought he was a little hysterical in his attitudes to communists and the extreme left-wing activity, but I have always put this down to the pressures which have been applied to him since his famous support for Gough Whitlam and his reported emotional break-up at the ALP Federal Executive meeting. 

 When thieves fall out 

I have always had a certain sympathy for Brian Harradine and other National Civic Council members such as Paul Houlihan, Ken Bennett, Bob Watling, Peter Imlach, (...) and others who have carried heavy loads on low rates of pay on behalf of the National Civic Council while the national leadership has waxed fat in the case of 
John Maynes and have lived at a respectable level of comfort as in the case of B. A. Santamaria and Tony Macken. There seem to be differential standards, and in late 1974 I was approached by Paul Houlihan, the present Secretary of the Clerks' Union in Tasmania to see if we in Queensland could give some assistance on a personal level to himself, Harradine and others who were genuinely economically disadvantaged. I was in fact doing something in this area for him when the extraordinary attacks on other officials of the Union by John Maynes began. 
If this introduction has seemed a little rambling, I have attempted to place my current attitude to  Mr Harradine  in perspective. At no stage during the period of the dispute between John Grenville and John Maynes, and later between this Branch of the Union and the National Civic Council have I made any attacks on Harradine even though such attacks could have been damaging to his ALP membership. 
Earlier this year in Canberra, I was present when John Grenville was asked to publicly declare what he knew of Brian Harradine 's association with the National Civic Council. Grenville was asked only to tell the truth, but he declined to make any statement which would be damaging to Harradine. In the light of the currently reported attitudes of Harradine in support of Maynes, I can only suggest that both Grenville 's chanty and mine towards Harradine has not been reciprocated. 
It has been reported to me that in support of the Maynes' proposition for opposition to rank and file ballots, Harradine has engaged in the most mischievious personal attacks on this Branch of the Union, and on myself particularly, with members of the governing coalition in Canberra. Further, he is alleged to have made threats about coming north to straighten out Forrester.  Senator Harradine  is welcome to come north on his gold pass any time he likes. Similar threats are being made by other National Civic Council extremists. On arrival he will discover that neither Forrester nor any other member of the staff or Council of the  Clerk  's Union is in a state of fear or trepidation; in fact most would be completely disinterested. 
The other thing that has led me to write this report to Councillors is that I prepared a statement in reply to the extraordinary articles appearing concurrently in the 'News Weekly' and 'The Bulletin' some time back about some mythical axis between myself, Barry Egan, Harry Krantz and Ray Gietzelt. In presenting a reply to this through the appropriate channels, i.e., my Branch Executive, the statement which I distributed was incorporated in the Branch Executive Minutes. There was some passing reference to Brian Harradine. I was amazed when the Assistant Secretary of this Union, Max Muller, reported to me that following the meeting he was approached by Joan Riordan, the Branch Vice President, asking him to remove the reference to Harradine from the Branch Executive Minutes. Miss Riordan, of course, is prominent in the extremist anti-semitic National Civic Council in Queensland. Even allowing for the pantomine type secrecy (security) in which the National Civic Council engages, such as sending letters through the post in two pans, I fail to see the necessity to falsify the Minutes of the Branch Executive of my Union in aid of Brian Harradine. I cannot see what value that would have which would justify the dishonesty involved. 
As I said earlier,  Mr Harradine  was a member to my knowledge of the National Civic Council as late as January 197S. I have heard reports that he was still a member in January 1976 but these are mere hearsay. I have seen the various statements which have passed backwards and forwards and have been used under parliamentary privilege by Harradine in relation to the Miscellaneous Workers' Union in New South Wales and the pan played by such people as Peter Moxon and Norman Bray. I have seen the various statutory declarations. I have met Bray only once and am in no position to challenge his statements. I have met and worked on a number of matters with Peter Moxon and I can only say that the statements he presents, if not inaccurate in fact, certainly have a lot of gaps. If information is not inaccurate, it is certainly withheld. Peter Moxon was actively engaged with the National Civic Council while a member of the ALP working daily from the office of the State  President, Mr Bob  0 'Connell, in an attempt to defeat Ray Gietzelt. He told me he was paid by the National Civic Council and on one occasion asked me through Terry Keogh to get Maynes to hurry up the payments. I make no judgment of this, only state it as a fact.  Mr Moxon  on two occasions boasted to me of the pressure that he had placed on Gietzelt by ringing his home in the middle of the night and at other times to disturb his domestic situation. I can particularly appreciate the value of this as I have been subject to a similar telephone campaign since the Maynes/Grenville, Maynes/Santamaria dispute began. I know that Moxon visited Queensland on two occasions and spent a considerable time with Officers of the National Civic Council and campaigned against State Branch Officials of the Miscellaneous Workers' Union. I know that he visited the Shop Assistants' and the Australian Workers' Union, but I in no way wish to imply that Officials of those Unions gave him any assistance. I am unaware whether they did assist or did not assist. 
Additionally,  Mr Terry  Keogh has stated that during the second Gietzelt campaign which was run solely by the National Civic Council, as distinct from the first campaign, that both Bray and Moxon stated to him that they had attended meetings and discussions at the National Civic Council office whilst they were both members of the ALP. 
Graham Treacey, who is now Secretary of AAESDA (Architects, Engineers and Draughtsmen) (Queensland Division) has advised that in October 1972 he attended a school run by the National Civic Council at Belloc House. As Secretary of the Union, I can testify that  Mr Treacey,  who was then an Organiser of the Union, was in fact absent for several weeks to attend this school. Also in attendance at that school were  Mr Bob  Watling, then with the Shop Assistants' Union;  Mr Peter  Imlach representing the Hospital Employees';  Mr Keiran  Ryan, an organiser of the Federated Clerks Union in Western Australia, later on the NCC staff in Western Australia;  Mr Brian  Philp, then and now an organiser in the Victorian Branch of the FCU;  Mr Rocky  Nimmo, a clerk from Tasmania, also full time with the NCC.  Mr Nimmo, Mr Watling  and  Mr Imlach  were all Tasmanians, pan of the Harradine team. 

 Mr Terry Keogh, an organiser of this Union, was employed by the National Civic Council for a period of time to assist in a campaign against Gietzelt in New South Wales.  Mr Keogh  is still a member of the staff of this Union and like myself and all other members of the staff, except the Branch  President,  has broken with the National Civic Council and has come to detest their method of operation, their ballotrigging procedures, their campaigns of personal abuse against all officials of trade unions with whom they disagree, whether communist, anti-communist or neutral. 
In preparing this document for Branch Council, I wish to advise that to the best of my knowledge the material contained herein is true. In relation to information provided by  Mr Keogh  and  Mr Treacey  I have checked and counterchecked that information with them, and they both state clearly that the information they have provided is truthful. (Signed) 
P. FORRESTER 
-I should like to associate myself with the expressions of sympathy and condolence to the wife and family of Leslie Haylen. During the years that Leslie Haylen was in this Parliament he always projected to me a picture of a man of great sincerity, an earthy man who knew the way the country should go. But of course, unfortunately, he did not remain in the Parliament long enough to participate while his party, our party, was in government. But in the advisory areas of our party Les Haylen was always highly respected. He was a man who had a great ability to express himself with humour and with earthiness. Perhaps I might recite to the Senate a very telling poem of his titled 'Inflation'. It went this way: 
There was movement on the station 
When the word had passed around 
That the colt from old Inflation got away, 
And joined the city slickers worth a thousand million pound, 
And all the cracks had gathered to the fray. 
The colt was got by Wool Cheque, 
Traced back to Mortgage Rate, 
And Work and Drought and Worry were his mate. 
He had broken down his fences 
And had joined the Menzies mob, 
And the boys had sworn to get him soon or late. 
So they sent a wire to Fadden, who was up Queensland way, 
Since Clancy of the Overflow was dead. 
But  Sir Arthur  sent a message that he 'd put his spurs away, 
He was suffering from inflation of the head. 
Then they sent a wire to Menzies saying: 'Won't you rally round? 
Can 't you put some value in our quids?' 
But Menzies couldn't help to put value in the pound 
He was very busy calling up the kids. 
And the squatters lined the stockrail, 
They were hot and bitter men 
When they heard how these brumbies had got in. 
Surely, said the old men, it's history back to front, 
The late Edward Patrick Kelly rides again. 
It seems this colt Inflation, 
Grand dam the station hack, 
Is costing fifty smackers for every hundred we get back. 
This tax to catch wild horses 
Is indeed a heavy load; 
Fadden 's made us waltz Matilda 
Down a long and dusty road. 
So once again it's mount and ride the scarred and wicked hills, 
The Liberal Party's let us down. 
Who'll save us from our ills? 
And the spirit of a man from Bathurst way was standing by the fence. 
I mind the time, the old man said, 
When you got your cheque in pence. 
Now the wheel has turned around, 
But please don 't take offence, 
The lean old bloke removed his pipe, 
He said just gather round, 
I think you'll all remember when 
I kept the government pound, 
And when I had inflation roped and hog-tied to the ground. 
And if you must ride the range again 
Remember this and grin, 
It was you who let Inflation out 
When you let Menzies in. 
I put that on the record,  Mr President,  because it indicates the attitude Les Haylen had towards events. There are a lot of telling lines in that poem. He was a man who came to grips with reality. He was a man who was very much loved by the members of his party. I know of the respect and admiration in which he was held by the party in New South Wales. I grieve with his wife and his family, who were so close to him, in their tremendous loss. I offer them my very deepest sympathy in their very sad loss. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. In view of the decision taken at the Premiers' Conference about establishing machinery for reviewing the States' share of personal income tax, can the Minister advise what steps are being taken to set up this machinery and in what respect would such a body involve an alteration in the status and membership of the Grants Commission? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Administrative Services and remind him that this week is National Library Week. Is the Minister aware of the recommendation of the Committee of Inquiry into Public Libraries that $19m be allocated last year to bring libraries throughout Australia, particularly those run by local government, to a reasonable standard? Is it a fact that no money was set aside either last financial year or this financial year for this purpose? When can the Australian people expect action by the Government to improve library services throughout Australia? 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Last year the Treasurer, in justification of the Government's decision to devalue by 17V4 per cent, rejected the idea that $ 1,000m should be borrowed from the International Monetary Fund. He went on to say: 
We were not prepared to put the national interest into hock. We were not prepared to let profiteers take this country to the cleaners. 
I ask: In view of the fact that the Government, faced with a similar situation, is now allegedly proposing to borrow up to $3, 000m, does that mean that the Treasurer is now prepared to put the national interest into hock and to let profiteers take the country to the cleaners? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Will the Minister identify to the Senate the advantages which the Government believes have resulted from its introduction in November 1976 of the managed float system currently used to determine the value of the Australian dollar? Does the Minister agree that the persistent outflow of capital, as shown by a continuing decline in our holdings of foreign exchangedespite the Government's announced borrowings last week-serves to illustrate the lack of confidence the business community has in the Government's intention to ensure that a devaluation is not imminent? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education. I ask: Did he invite the Tasmanian State Minister for Education, the Honourable Neil Batt, to submit a list of names of people suitable for a position on the Federal Technical and Further Education Council? Did the Minister disregard the advice of the State Minister and appoint to the Board a  Mr J.  A. Rickard, the Vice-President of the Liberal Party and the Liberal Party campaign manager for the Federal seat of Bass? Has the State Secretary of the Tasmanian Technical College Staff Society, Mr Stronach publicly criticised the appointment because  Mr Rickard  was completely unknown to technical education and had no connection whatsoever with education in Tasmania? Was not  Mr Rickard  's appointment to the Council a gratuity for services rendered and not because of any contribution to the development of technical and further education? Finally, is this not a glaring example of a broken promise and of jobs for the boys? 
I am compelled to address the Senate on a matter which was raised during Question Time this morning relating to an article that appeared in today's  Australian  newspaper under the by-line of Graeme Beaton of the New York Bureau. 

 The bells having been rung and a count having been taken- 

-I direct a question to the Minister for Industry and Commerce. It relates to the heavy burden placed on small business in this time of business recession and financial stringency by the inordinate delay that has been placed on small business by government administrative procedures. Following the Minister's statement of last week on small business what steps will be taken to short-cut existing administrative procedures to reduce the time between when a department takes receipt of goods and services and when the supplier actually receives payment for them? Is the Minister aware that existing administrative procedures, from receipt of delivery document, to receipt of an invoice, to preparation of a claim, to authorisation of that claim and the issuance of a cheque by the SubTreasury, invariably take longer than a month? Does the Minister agree that this delay creates cash flow problems for small businesses and will he see what can be done to overcome this documentary nightmare? 
-The encouragement I have been given by the previous  speaker, Senator Steele  Hall, to get to my feet leads me to quote from  Hansard  of 6 November 1975. Among other things,  Senator Steele  Hall stated: 
A letter which I had here the other day was typical of the hundreds of letters that I and I am sure all members of Parliament have received. It stated: 
On behalf of myself and my family, we thank you - 
That is  Senator Steele  Hall-  for your condemnation of  Mr Fraser  for his attempt to overthrow our elected Government. 
Thank you. I must say that I was provoked into referring to that matter because of the invitation that was so kindly extended to me by the honourable senator who has just resumed his seat. I intended to describe him as a Jacob, or a man with a coat of many colours, or a political chameleon. The reason I got to my feet was that this motion to pass this measure through all its stages without delay is part of the Government's program which is changing the character of this House of review, this Parliament, this Senate. It is virtually being changed into a chamber of horrors. When I talk about horrors, there are certainly some reactionary horrors on the other side of the Senate. They are all prone to talk about the importance of this chamber and about it not having time to deliberate over important legislation. Now they have the temerity to charge the Opposition with filibustering when we talk about the history of legislation of this kind which has been before the Parliament. In 1947 this measure was debated for a month. 
-No, the measure the Government wants to get on to by hurrying this Bill through the House. I am speaking about undue haste. I am talking about the program of the Government. It wants to have this measure brought on and passed or adjourned without the deliberation and review which we claim we could give to it in the Parliament. I make the point that the Senate is being turned into a charade and a farce by political hit and run men. I describe Government people as hit and run men because they are doing to the Parliament and to the institution of the Senate what ruthless and reckless power crazed road hogs do to the pedestrians of this country. They run over people regardless of the conventions and customs of the country. Members of the Government are doing their evil worst to divert the Parliament from its traditional role into an authoritarian role which is to be equalled only by the pre-war days of Hitler's Germany when trade unions and the Parliament in Germany faced farcical things like the burning of the Reichstag and all the other ploys which were used to fool the people. This is exactly what this Government is doing. I take the opportunity in relation to this motion to voice my strong disapproval of the Government's proposed program, including its proposal in relation to this measure. I feel certain that this Bill needs a lot more discussion and that we should not put it through all its stages without delay. I hope the Government will adjourn debate on this Bill in order to give us full discussion on it in the future. It is a matter of importance to the farmers of this country. 
Nitrogenous fertilisers. As a matter of fact, the spreading of fertilisers by people on the Government side is equal to that which comes out of the farmyard in great quantities. There is no great hurry for this Bill to be passed. It is almost an annual event and therefore I object to the passage of the Bill without full consideration. I also put on record my very strong objection to the way in which legislation is being treated in this Parliament. The Government is gagging and not allowing the proper forms of the House to be applied or for review to take place in the proper way. 
-I seek leave to make a personal explanation. 
-I take the opportunity of addressing the Senate on the motion for the first reading of a Bill to impose a levy upon certain oilseeds produced in Australia. It is significant that the Senate should be addressing itself to this matter. Over the past ten or fifteen years we have seen one of the strongest lobbies ever by the farmer organisations of 
Australia against the production of oilseeds for use in the production of margarine because they believed that oilseeds were a threat to the dairy industry. The dairy industry has served a great purpose, has provided the means of livelihood for many great pioneer Australians, but science has found a way of substituting another commodity for the product of the dairy farm. Chemists, scientists and doctors have also realised that margarine is better for the diet of people than butter. So we have seen a change in the attitudes of people to something that was held very fervently at one stage to be the only commodity that should be part of the diet of people. Bread and butter were a basic part of our diet. 
Bread and dripping were part of the basic diet of the less fortunate section of the community. It appears from some of the views expressed by  Senator Missen  that he may have even had bread and dripping in his lifetime, as I have had. When one has such a basic backround to work from one often has a broaderased philosophy than people who were born with a silver spoon in their mouths. The point I am making is that the fact that we are debating a Bill dealing with the production of oilseeds, a new concept in production in this country which bids fair to displace a particular product of the dairy farm, is an admission that all the efforts of the past and all the money spent in the past have gone for nought because we now accept as a fact that the oilseeds industry is able to provide some of the needs of mankind equally as well as, if not better than, the traditional dairy farm. 
It is on that basis that I would like to address myself to a few other rapid changes that have taken place in our community. I think that I should refer just to some of the things which have occurred in the last five years. Honourable senators on the Government side will not admit it but, just as sure as night follows day, these things have become accepted in our society. I would like to put on the record some of the things that have been bitterly opposed by people with blinkers and blindfolds over their eyes because of their commitment to the thinking of the past. I want to recite some of the things that a previous government did in this country in a short period of time- a very disturbed period of three yearsand that are here to stay. I refer to the dramatic increase in the spending on education, which was the No. 1 priority of the previous Government. I refer to the establishment of Medibank. It is very pleasing to see that  Senator Baume  is present in the chamber. I am sure that, despite the difficulty in following him in many other areas, he will be consistent and agree that Medibank is of great advantage to the health of this country. I refer also to the health centres that have been established. I am certain that anyone in the medical profession who is sincere will realise that these centres are a long sought after necessity in our community. 
-I admit that preliminary work was done on them. They were then developed to the stage where they are accepted in the community. The health centres, which are admitted to be of great advantage, were established and enlarged by the Labor Government. The women's shelters meet a great need in our society. Any humanitarian will admit to the need for women's shelters because of the inconsistencies of the capitalist system, whereby profit, selfishness and greed are the No. 1 priorities and men are influenced to the extent that they feel as though they can use women as their serfs or vassals and can ill treat them and get away with it. There are now places where women can go for shelter. 
Governments prior to the previous Government treated women as vassals. They treated them as though they were an inferior section ofthe community, as though they had to be kept in their place- in the kitchen and pregnant. That was the woman's role. We have heard  Senator Walters  speak about the role of women and say that they should be paid for being in the kitchen. That is an abysmal attitude. It is an abysmally backward-looking philosophy. Honourable senators opposite support her. They think that she is a duchess. What is a maharajah's wife called? 
Yes, a maharanee. I turn now to the matter of equal pay. People in the textile industry have said that they could have continued to produce textiles and make fabrics in this country but for the introduction of equal pay for women. The story of free trade and protection in Australia is a long one. The time had to come when there had to be a reappraisal of the traditional attitude about whether we should protect industries in Australia and thereby increase our cost of living or whether we should modify our economy by allowing some imports into Australia. I did not agree with the decision that was made but it was a matter of policy. 
When it was introduced it did have a great effect upon the textile industry in particular. There are people in this industry who are saying today that the reason why the textile industry failed was that the Labor Party supported the principle of equal pay for women. Be that as it may, many women hold the opinion, and I support them, that they are as capable as men of putting an effort into the economy on any level. That great advance was made, but it had been opposed for generations by the people who have occupied the government benches. The Labor Government introduced, supported and developed the concept of urban growth centres. Members of the Country Party have been almost like parasites on the backs of the farming community of Australia. They claim that the only party which represents the farmers' interests is the Country Party, or whatever its name is since 'Country Party' has become unfashionable. They call themselves the National Country Party now, and they have a great inspiration in Queensland- the deep north-where the Premier is their spiritual guide, their bible-belter. That is all I will say about him, and I hope I have been respectful. 
That is right. The Labor Government introduced the Prices Justification Tribunal which has given some reality to this country in regard to inequities in price control. Legislation will be introduced as a result of the Hope report which will condemn any man who advocates that the employees of this country should get proper wages for the commodity that they sell- their labour. On the other hand, any business organisation, any factory, can charge whatever it likes. It is only because the toothless prices justification organisation gives some indication of exploitation and profiteering in the community that there is any balance at ali in the commodities people have to sell. 
I should like to say a few words on what the Labor Party did to bring about the rebirth of the arts and the complete hypocrisy of the so-called elitists of this country who nominally support the arts. They exploited the efforts of the previous Government to uplift, widen and expand our artistic field and our appreciation of international artists. 
Yes, I am referring to  Blue Poles.  The way in which our selection board was denigrated and reduced in status by the attack made upon it for political purposes will be to the everlasting disgrace of every individual member on the other side of this chamber, not only in respect of  Blue Poles  but also in respect of their attitude towards the improvement and expansion of the art collection of this country. One would think that members of the Government who claim to be the elitists would set a standard which would continually improve man's great prospects for development, but one finds that the greatest representatives of the Aussie ocker image of this country are to be found on the Government side. They do not want to change anything. The Government is quite happy to see its supporters having their few bob each way and their Tooths or Courage or whatever it might be, continuing with the daily grind, the common task, and turning up on election day, fearing the $2 fine if they do not turn up. Those are the people that the Goverment cultivateskeep them stupid; keep them uninterested. In that way the Government can dominate them and get on with the job of assisting the people it represents. I will have something to say in a moment about the multinationals and the way they have been able to influence this country and take over our most important resources. 
The Colonial Sugar Refining Company does not bear very close investigation. It has been subsidised for a long time through the different levies and sugar agreements and nitrogenous fertiliser subsidies. All roads lead to the CSR. As a matter of fact, CSR, with its basis in Queensland, represents the attitude of the whole of Queensland and its  CourierMail  psychology about what they would like to do to the whole of Australia. Queensland is almost a forgotten area because it is dominated so completely by an organisation such as CSR, which claims that it is an Australian company but has all the hallmarks of a multinational exploiter. 
I turn now to the important matter of Aboriginal land rights, which has some parallel with CSR. The Australian Labor" Party when in government attempted to elevate the matter of Aboriginal land rights to a position where it was accepted as part of Australia's policy towards Aboriginals. As a Tasmanian, I almost have to bow my head when I speak of Aboriginal land rights. The problem of Aborigines was solved in Tasmania by shooting and poisoning them, by annihilating them. The situation is almost as bad in Queensland. 
That is true, and that is what I am pointing out to members of the Government. The Government's predecessors solved the Aboriginal land rights problem in Tasmania by shooting the parents and poisoning the children, obliterating a segment of God's creation. On Sunday the bible belters will get up and preach 'thou shalt' and 'thou shalt not', but they can justify the fact that a race of people were obliterated because those people were inconvenient. They used to steal sheep and they objected to their women being violated, and for that reason they had to be obliterated and annihilated. When the history of the southern part of this globe on which we live is written, the Australian pioneers will have to answer for a small blot on the evolution of mankind, namely, the fact that a defenceless section of the community was wiped out without a whimper. That is one of the matters that we put to the Australian electorate, and we succeeded in gaining acceptance of the right of Aboriginals to be treated as people. After 75 years of Federation that simple fact was recognised. During that time the Aboriginals had no right to recognition as human beings, but now they have that right. They also have a vote, the No. 1 priority in a democracy; but that is all they have. Today  Senator Bonner  spoke about Aborigines building humpies. What a disgrace! What a reflection on modern people, that he should speak of building humpies. 
They do not choose anything. They have no choice whatever. 
The traditional Aborigines were nomadic people. They did not even have humpies- except when they built them temporarily and moved on. In this day and age, even to use such words as 'build humpies' is such a retrograde attitude that it is unforgivable. The fact that  Senator Bonner,  as a representative of his race, had to raise this matter in the Senate indicates how hopelessly backward this Government is in regard to the needs of this day and age. 
I move on to another important matter which has always been very dear to my heart. It is the matter of human rights and conscription. I suppose that one can almost liken the conscription of people to go and fight in a foreign war m Vietnam to what is in the mind of the Government on the conscription of labour in the Latrobe Valley where people do not want to accept the terms which are being offered by a government  instrumentality in Victoria. No private enterprise would ever have the temerity to create this situation; but a Hamer led government in Victoria finds great political capital on creating the unprecedented situation which exists at present in Victoria. 
I ask  Senator Missen  not to worry because I will give him word for word an account of the situation. This article might be of interest to the honourable senator because it is written by a great friend of the Government- it will not claim him; but he is- a man who is very well respected in this Parliament.  His  name is Mungo MacCallum. Before this situation arose in the Latrobe Valley, in the  Nation Review  of 3 to 9 February, which is quite a while ago, he wrote: 
Announcing the Government's confrontation with the union movement on Tuesday, the hapless Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations (it used to be called labor, but we can't use that word now) Tony Street told a somewhat cynical press conference that the new scheme for an industrial police force wasn't meant to please the unions, or the employers: in fact, Street said rather desperately, it wasn't meant to please anybody. This was what the late  Sir Winston  Churchill used to call delicately a terminological inexactitude, or in less parliamentary terms, a bloody lie. It was meant to please exactly one person: Malcolm Fraser. 
The whole scheme was Fraser's brain child, and for years now he has been employing his finely honed feudal mind in polishing up the last details of it. He first put forward the plan as shadow Minister for Labor (in the days when we still could use the word), and reiterated it firmly as Leader of the Opposition: and it was one of the very few direct promises he made in his election campaign speeches in 1975. 
Most of the others have been broken (except for the one about not giving our money to African terrorists, which no one had been doing anyway, but it sounded good at the time) but this was the one Fraser really had his heart set on. 
Despite the fact that he has never worked for a living, or had much acquaintance with anyone who does (except for his own farmhands, or serfs, as they describe themselves) Fraser has always prided himself on his deep understanding of industrial relations. Insofar as this understanding is based on anything, it seems to derive from a more than casual acquaintance with a number of members of the National Civic Council, who have convinced Fraser that the unions are really just tools of the handful of communist officials, and the employers either don't know or don't care, and the only thing that can do any good is for the government to make things as difficult as possible for the commos. 
That illustrates in the clearest possible way how the situation in the Latrobe Valley in Victoria has been manipulated for the purpose of calling an election. The Government has created an atmosphere to display to the  Herald,  to the Melbourne  Sun  and to the Government's colleagues in Victoria and also in New South Wales how to manipulate in a Goebbels-like way the mind of the electorate. 
The proof of the pudding is in the eating. Honourable senators opposite will get their desserts in the right proportion whenever the election is held. In the other place it is the back benchers in particular who are most disturbed and who will get their proper- 
-I shall keep going. I am very pleased that the whole scenario is unfolding so clearly before the event. This exposing of the Government's plans will not be published in the Press; but at least it is putting on record in the Senate the fact that most senators on this side of the chamber are fully aware of the way in which people can be completely manipulated and brainwashed. This is what is happening at the present time over the industrial problem. I will read from an article in the  Examiner,  which is a local Tasmania newspaper. It relates to the present situation. It is dated Thursday last and the heading is: 'No Easy Answer'. I think that Government senators should read or listen to and digest this article because there is a power of truth in it. It states: 
The Victorian power strike has now become a veritable chamber of horrors and open to exploitation by the political hit men of the extreme right and left. The last thing the concerned individual should do at this stage is join the mob of simplistic authoritarians- 
Mark ye-  who believe that a battle to the death on the Latrobe Valley coal fields will usher in a political-industrial Utopia. It won 't, but it could speed the change towards an authoritarian society of left or right, with the moderates, the pragmatists, the believers in consensus being squeezed out. The communist secretary of the Amalgamated Metal Workers and Shipwrights Union,  Mr John  Halfpenny, commented after trie Latrobe Valley maintenance men went back on strike, that it could be the most serious industrial dispute in the history of Australia. 
-He still is. The article continues: 
The scene is now set for solid confrontation,' he said. As the member of a political faction which is committed to the destruction of a society such as Australia's,  Mr Halfpenny  may even welcome another plunge by Australia into crisis. 
Government senators- Hear, Hear! 
Let honourable senators say 'hear hear' to the next paragraph. The article continued: 
However, the extremists of the left are not the only ones who might be welcoming the power strike chaos. Yesterday, the  Deputy  Prime Minister,  Mr Anthony,  said that sooner or later the Government must face up to the industrial situation and have an election. 'The Government needs two or three years in front of it to get the country under control ', he said. 
This is quite hypocritical. The Government's had almost two years to prove its worth as a 'controller', and has more than 12 months to go if it feels it needs more time.  Mr 
Anthony is one of the more obvious union bashers in the Government and his remark appears to be as hypocritical as those of the more extreme Latrobe Valley shop stewards who led their colleagues into the present maze. 
That is from my local yokel place in Launceston, Tasmania, where they are more informed than all of these socalled brilliant intellectuals we see leering from the other side of the Senate. The article continues: 
However, there is no doubt that the Government will use the wave of national outrage caused by the strike to launch a campaign for an early election. And at this stage it will win such an election because Australians have had their fill of strikes and union leaders . . . 
This is the whole idea behind the manipulation of this situation. A state of confrontation has been brought about. As Mungo MacCallum said last February, this has all been organised. Why did he write that last February? Is he a seer? 
If he is an idiot, I would like to know what the honourable senator's IQ would be- it would be about 22 minus. The article continues: 
And despite the naivete of the Federal Government in industrial matters, it has a lot going for it . . . 
In addition, unionists generally, will wonder why a group . . . should be allowed to wreck wage indexation . . . 
I will finish up by quoting the following words: 
However, the Government has made so much of union intransigence and how it will stomp on it that if it mishandles the situation the backlash will be large and swift. 
It is happening and the lambs that are being led to the slaughter are the old mutton that is on the other side of the Senate. 
Yes. Finally, the article states: 
Oh for the wisdom of a Solomon instead of the expediency of an Anthony. 
What prophetic words. I would like to conclude my remarks by quoting - 
I will be-many other things, as a matter of fact. 
I shall leave you out. 
-by leaveSenator  Sir Magnus  Cormack sought leave to make a statement relating to the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, Subcommittee on Human Rights in the Soviet Union under the business heading of presentation of papers. I feel that the Senate and the Parliament as a whole are intruding into an area and creating a very dangerous precedent for any government. We are widening a field of investigation to within the borders of another country. Can honourable senators imagine the uproar there would be in this country if some group of nationals came to Australia to examine, for instance, the scientologists, the Ananda Marga, the lack of migrant English classes or the like. This Committee will be set up with parliamentary approval virtually to interfere in the domestic affairs of another country. 
The matter of Soviet jewry and the history of religious groups in the Soviet Union present a very sore and long-standing problem. It is a sore point in the Western world where religion is a very important part of the state activities. Religions and states are very closely united. For example, our Queen is also the head of a church. This used to be the case in the Soviet Union when the Russian Orthodox Church virtually dominated the activities and the life of the Russian people. A revolution in Russia overthrew this regime of the Russian Orthodox Church. People in the Soviet Union have been very intolerant towards the revival of the Russian Orthodox religion; although while I was in the Soviet Union I attended a Russian Orthodox Church service not far outside Moscow. There were pilgrims from different parts of the Soviet Union and people in a teaching school who were studying to become priests or rabbis- 
-There were not many. But considering the size of the church, there seemed to be an adequate number. Their activities were very restricted. They were almost confined within the walls of this area. It is perhaps a very ambitious project on the part of the Sub-committee of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence to aspire to go to the Soviet Union, if that is what the Committee hopes to do. After all, if the members of the Subcommittee do not go into the Soviet Union it will not get factual evidence. It will make a report on hearsay evidence or perhaps biased or prejudiced evidence together with the factual evidence no doubt it will get.  Senator Lajovic  knows that the Jewish people have been persecuted practically wherever they have been. 

 - Senator Lajovic lived in Europe during the period when we saw the most degrading treatment of the Jewish people. I do not know whether the honourable senator agreed then or now with what happened to them at the time, but it was an insult to mankind. 
-The motion before the Chair is a motion of dissent from your ruling,  Mr President.  It is the right of any senator to move such a motion. He has the right under the Standing Orders, he has the right under convention, and it is one of the fundamental bases of democracy that he should be able to do so. But in moving such a motion an honourable senator is not showing any disrespect towards you in your rulings. I make that point because disrespect can be interpreted as meaning disparagement or a lack of deference. There are many ways to describe disrespect. The matter that we are debating has been discussed throughout the country for two years. Every lawyer in Australia, including  Senator Withers, Senator Chaney  and other legal people, has discussed this matter and seminars have been conducted in very high places. The subject matter to which  Senator McLaren  referred has been openly and thoroughly debated and is now part of history. However, the only place in Australia where the matter cannot be discussed is in this -Senate, in this Parliament, according to the ruling that has been made. 
I make the point that during the course of a debate on the mundane matter of the salary of the representative of Her Majesty, if anything other than support for the measure is put forward it can be taken as being critical or disrespectful or in some way derogatory towards the representative of Her Majesty. Because this subject has been so controversial and is such a fundamental issue affecting the Parliament itself, the Westminster system, and the history of Australia, in my view it is taking a rather narrow view to forbid any reference to it in this place. This is the first time that a substantive motion has been moved under which we could discuss the question whether the Parliament is entitled to refer to a tremendously important historic period and an historic act of the 
Governor-General. I believe that that is of very great importance, and I am sure that when  Senator McLaren  referred to it he felt that he was exercising his democratic right to have an equal opportunity with anyone else in the community who wishes to refer to it. There are differing opinions on the decision that was made. Therefore,  Mr President,  although you have ruled according to the letter of the Standing Orders that  Senator McLaren  is unable to make such a reference, in my view it is a special matter in which you should exercise that extra discretion that should be available to the Presiding Officer to give a senator the same rights as anyone else in the community. 
-Is the Minister representing the Minister for Transport aware of a report, known as the Schei report, made to the Norwegian Parliament relating to the Omega navigation installation in that country and that the report finds that the Norwegian Parliament was deliberately deceived by its own defence and intelligence organisation on the true purpose of Omega? Is the Minister aware that the report allegedly states that far from being primarily a civilian installation Omega was basically designed for the United States Navy's nuclear submarines? Will the Minister investigate the authenticity of the Norwegian report and, if available, obtain a copy for the Parliamentary Library? 
-I direct my question to the Minister representing the Treasurer and refer him to an article in this morning's  Canberra Times  headed 'New loan of $179m "being discussed".' The article states that the Treasurer,  Mr Lynch,  announced that the Government had begun negotiations for a public bond issue on the New York market for the amount of $ 179m. In view of the publicity surrounding the transfer of profits of the Utah Development Co. and the Ford Motor Co. of Australia Ltd of approximately the same amount- that is approximately $170m of Australian money- ostensibly, to quote a Utah spokesman, for investment in other parts of the world, I ask the Minister: Is there no obligation on the part of the Department of the Treasury to persuade these companies which are ripping off the resources of the people of Australia to observe the adage that charity begins at home and that Australia has to borrow its money back from New York markets for the essential needs of this country? 
I wish to associate myself with the expressions of sympathy that have been made tonight by  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack. As a former Presiding Officer of the Senate he personally appreciated, as I did, the work contributed by the late Alan Southwell in the very thorough and efficient way that he carried out his duties as the senior attendant in charge of the committee rooms. We all have occasion to frequent those rooms. I have never known anyone to make a complaint about the way the rooms were prepared for the very important work of the Senate in its committee activities. I was most impressed with the kindness and graciousness of the words expressed by  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack. I appreciate very much the fact that he has drawn attention to Alan Southwell's loyalty and devotion to his job in the Senate and also to his activities outside the Senate in his assistance to the youth, particularly of the Eastlake Football Club. 
I was most impressed this morning at the funeral ceremony at St Patrick's Cathedral to see that the guard of honour comprised the football team of which Alan had been the coach since these youngsters were six years of age. Because of his ability, kindness and very likeable personality and disposition, these children stayed together as a team. From the age of six years they have played regularly every year and were runnersup in the under-thirteen premiership last year. The team paid its last tribute to him. In my view the very large crowd of people who attended the funeral and the most impressive sight of these young people paying their last respects were a mark of the esteem in which he was held. It is very sad that a man of only 42 years of age had his life cut short in such a sudden way. It is those who are left behind to mourn to whom our deep sympathy goes. To his wife Dawn, his daughters Kerrie, Vicki and Brenda and his son Alan I extend my personal sympathy. I am sure that other honourable senators who knew Alan and the work he did here and who enjoyed his pleasant personality would, like you,  Mr President,  to place on the record of the Senate, through the medium of this adjournment debate, our appreciation of his work and our very deep sympathy to the members of his family who are left behind to mourn. 
I am constrained to enter this debate to say how pleased I am that the Government has seen fit to bring down a statement on this matter. 
That is right. To me, it has been a reflection on the maturity of the Australian nation that it has tolerated the introduction of a European religious feud into our body politic. We have had great crises over this very issue. Our security, the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation and the protective screen in this country have been challenged by the subtlety of the pseudo or quasi religious feud that was introduced by the Croats who are supporting an indefensible attitude that they can perpetuate in this country something that was discredited in Europe. 
When we bring migrants of various nationalities and ethnic groups into this country we give them the great freedoms of the country to enjoy all the basic things we have created. To me the Croat people are prostituting this great privilege. With freedoms given to them they established this clandestine organisation which they felt could reconstitute from Australia an ideology, religion or attitude that was long past. The reestablishment of a king of Croatia or the old system has gone with the wind. Yet these people are prepared to disturb the traditional way of life in Australia with bombing, terrorism and shocking activities. I blame the Croats for the terrorism and fear which have been introduced into the Australian way of life. I am so pleased that although members of the Liberal Party used the deception that the Labor Party was persecuting these people, the Government is doing tonight exactly the same thing which former  Senator Murphy  tried to do. 
-I do not want to hear from  Senator Lajovic.  He is biased. He has a vested interest in this matter. 
Has the attention of the Minister for Science been drawn to the report of an infestation of Australian sheep by a parasite known as the barberspole worm? I understand that this worm acts like a leech on the inner wall of the stomach of the sheep. In view of the warning that the barberspole worm is reputed to have built up an immunity to treatment by most drenches and other forms of stomach worm treatment in sheep and that it could in certain circumstances decimate the Australian sheep population, will the Minister initiate an inquiry by the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation into the incidence of the parasite and take whatever action is necessary to deal with the matter? 
-Will the Minister representing the Minister for National Development make available to the Senate for tabling the 104-page report on nuclear energy prepared by the Environment, Energy and Natural Resources Sub-committee of the United States Congress? Also, has he heard a comment on the Australian Broadcasting Commission 's news service that, despite 30 years of federal control in America, government and industry have so far failed to produce a solution to the problem of radioactive waste and that this report will send chills down the backs of nuclear energy executives? Is the Minister aware that the cost of nuclear energy in the United States is climbing astronomically and that this cost spiral, plus the waste problem, are already causing some American States to back away from nuclear power development? Will the Minister draw the attention of the Minister for National Development to these new attitudes in the United States? Finally, will the Minister reconsider his previous statement that he will be the one to enunciate the nuclear power policy of our country? 
I ask the Minister representing the Attorney-General: In view of the interest in government and politics generated through seminars, symposiums et cetera, will he contact the Attorney-General to have a review made of the prices charged for copies of High Court judgments, particularly the recent finding on the Privy Council decision? I was astonished to learn that the price of a copy of that judgment was as high as $11. As these publications are about the equivalent of the  Daily Hansard  in size, why is the cost for a copy of a judgment so much greater than that for a  Daily Hansard,  especially as law students and other interested people should be entitled and encouraged to read these documents by having them available at a much more reasonable price? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Science. I draw his attention to a warning issued in Tasmania relating to the treatment of timber with copper chrome arsenate, or CCA as it is known. The use of this chemical as a preservative and white ant deterrent is becoming widespread and timber which has been treated with this chemical is used extensively in children's playgrounds and in the construction of log cabins. Will the Minister have officers of the CSIRO issue a warning to the users of timber so treated at places where this timber is distributed that the timber scraps treated with CCA should never be used in indoor fires, household incinerators or barbeques as the fumes and smoke can cause extreme discomfort and even asphyxiation? 
Before the motion is put to the Senate I think that  Senator Carrick  should give some consideration to the request by  Senator Cavanagh  that an explanation be given of the special reason for this sitting and the concession that is being made in regard to the Standing Orders, which provide that no committee shall sit while the Senate is in session. If the case is strong enough the Senate will then put its imprimatur on this special meeting. The question of committees sitting while the Senate is in session is under consideration by the Standing Orders Committee. It is a big issue. The Senate has developed the committee system faster than the Standing Orders have been able to accommodate the proliferation of committee work. The point made by  Senator Cavanagh  is important. If there is a proliferation of committee meetings during the sittings of the Senate it will cut across the whole principle of Parliament. Parliament means speaking publicly in this forum. The attendance in the Senate itself may be seriously reduced by the holding of committee meetings during the sittings of the Senate. Many times, because committees are sitting, we will not have a quorum to conduct the business of the Senate. An important principle is involved. The Senate should be given some explanation of the urgency of this special concession being requested by the Public Works Committee. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Administrative Services. It has been said that a financial sneeze in tha United States ends up as economic influenza in Australia. It seems that security in the United States has created a fear of terrorists syndrome in Australia. Has the Minister seen reports in today's Press that members of the American Vice-President's delegation have voiced surprise at the intensity of VIP protection, Australian style, in the post-Hilton bombing era. Press reports described dozens of police and plain clothes security men being on duty yesterday at the Vice-President's hotel. Others with binoculars lined the roof of Parliament House while colleagues checked under parked cars for bombs. Does it not appear that the whole fear of terrorists syndrome has been over-done here and that the security business has become a new and blossoming industry? Will the Minister note the comments of one of the visiting delegates who said that  Mr Fraser  was conservative and oldfashioned, that he was concerned about the Soviet presence in the Indian Ocean, the red hand of Moscow and so on, when all this is passe in Washington? 
-It was with very deep regret that I learned yesterday of the passing of  Sir Denham  Henty, with whom I served in this Parliament for a period of almost 25 years. I had known ex-Senator Henty even before his election to the , Parliament- during the time in which he was the Mayor of the City of Launceston, the city in which I was born. We lived close to each other in the same suburb, and our lives ran a very similar course despite the fact that we were ideologically opposed politically. During all my experience of  Sir Denham  I found him to be a man of great courage and a man of very high principle. As the Mayor of Launceston, he supported the city and helped to promote its development. I recall his time in the Senate as the Minister for Civil Aviation when he made his mark in such a noticeable way by being responsible for the erection of the Launceston airport terminal. In many other ways also he carried out his duties in that portfolio with distinction. 
He was Leader of the Government in the Senate. During the period that he served in that capacity the support and loyalty that he was able to obtain from his colleagues was quite noticeable. He retired, I think wisely, and had a period of quiet and rest, although I saw him often moving about the city of Launceston. Every time I met him he greeted me as though I was a very close friend. I respected him very much indeed. I am certain that the years he had in retirement were a great comfort to his wife, Lady Faith, and his family. I would like to be associated with this condolence motion and offer my very deepest sympathy to  Sir Denham  's widow and family in the great loss that they have sustained. 
-The honourable senator who has just resumed his seat has introduced nothing new into this debate. He has repeated the continuous coverup, the shibboleths and the evasion of the issues. I would like to make it quite clear that the Australian Labor Party has a policy of total opposition to the opening of any new uranium mines until we are satisfied about the safety of the mining operations and the adequacy of the nuclear safeguards. There was nothing in  Senator Young's  speech that attempted to deal with those problems. He quoted from various parts of the Fox report that suited his argument. But I would like to draw the attention of the honourable senator to the fact that in the Memorandum of Understanding made during the time of the Labor Government there was a qualification that subject to the final findings of the Fox uranium report, the Labor Government would make certain arrangements. But  Senator Young  carefully avoided mentioning that. 
He said nothing during the whole of his speech to assure the people of Australia that there is an obligation on his Government to be able to present a clear cut case that the mining in and the proliferation of uranium from this country have been cleared by our scientists so that not only this generation, including the people who will be engaged in the physical act of mining and transporting uranium and eventually treating it, but also the generations to follow will have an assurance that their interests and rights are protected.  Senator Young  said that no one has accused the Government of dealing with this matter in haste. Of course, it is very fine to be able to say that there has been no haste. This is so for the simple reason that honourable senators opposite have been able to use their numbers on every occasion when they have debated this matter to do what they desire. The fact that there has been no haste presents no justification for the Government amending the Atomic Energy Act in the way it intends. 
The other night when I was watching television I saw a previous  chairman  of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission,  Sir Philip  Baxter, applying himself to a different aspect of this whole problem of nuclear power which, at its fullest projection, will decide the fate of mankind. At this time when people are racing around the world holding secret conferences, when the tensions of the world are such that members of the general public are not being fully informed of what is going on and when  deputy  heads of state can visit a country for what are almost clandestine meetings, it can be seen that there is a great deal more in uranium mining and the future use of nuclear power than meets the eye. 
This is a very emotional and controversial matter because the future of the earth is involved both directly and indirectly in the decisions that we are making here. We are still using the term atomic energy, when on all other occasionsexcept in this amending Bill which is the hidden clout in the Act- every other reference is to nuclear power. Atomic power- the splitting of the atom- was a great discovery. But the scientists, the technicians and the people associated with the nuclear industry have advanced a long way since the days of the splitting of the atom. This technique holds within itself the unknown and unknowable of our inhabitation of this planet. 
I charge the Government with dishonesty because it has taken the view that it can misrepresent the facts about uranium to the Australian people. I place on record my total opposition to this objectionable amendment to the Atomic Energy Act. The Bill is amending an Act which is related to the defence power of this country. The Government's dishonesty lies in the fact that the legislation extends the defence power into commerce and into external affairs. Examples of the use of uranium in the United States have shown the impossibility of being certain that waste resulting from the treatment of uranium can be disposed of safely. It is absolute nonsense to say that the lethal waste, which contains plutonium 239- the enormous life period of that substance is well known- can be disposed of by burying it in caverns and underneath the earth's surface. Only last week in the virtually safe geological area of Tasmania we had an earth tremor of a level which registered on the Richter scale. That tremor shows that regardless of where on this earth we find a place that may seem to be temporarily suitable for the disposal of waste, it could possibly be subject to a disturbance such as an earthquake and that lethal substance could be liberated. 
A promise has been made- in my view it is a specious one- that the lethal substance can be disposed of by vitrification. That is a matter for the scientists at the laboratory table. But the vast quantity of accumulated waste that already exists in the United States is such that it would challenge the ability of scientists more than ever to find the proper technique by which to dispose of it. In introducing this legislation, with forethought and determination, the Government has decided to join the nuclear club. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
Before the sitting was suspended for dinner I had made the point that the haste to mine and treat uranium and to develop it throughout the world for power purposes had been attributed to the possible shortage of fossil fuels. I point out to the Senate that while the major international oil companies, the people who control the oil in the various reservoirs of the world, are selling the fossil fuel as fast as they can take it from the ground, the automobile industry, although depressed at the moment, goes on its ravenous way consuming the fossil fuels. The cost throughout the Western world is becoming so great in the provision of highways, parking lots and the like that, as far as 
I can see, the argument that there is a tremendous problem facing the world in relation to fossil fuels is not as great as it is made out to be. It is my view that because the possibility of generating power from an alternative fuel has been made economically feasible as a result of the rising cost of fossil fuels, the people who have found a new dimension, because they can obtain uranium, develop reactors and supply energy, are taking advantage of the situation. 
The legislation before the Senate goes much deeper than the sheer economics of making a fast buck from a commodity about which scientists are uncertain and about which the people of Australia are concerned and confused. I believe that this legislation, and the proposed bulk mining of uranium in Australia, will create a great deal of turmoil in this country. It will split the country into two. There are people who are opposed to the mining of uranium and the use of nuclear energy and its consequences, such as the lack of certainty about disposal of the waste. Worst of all, in the hands of people who are not responsible finally, uranium could eventually be used to destroy the whole of the earth's fabric through the use of thermo-nuclear bombs. In addition, the mining and transportation of uranium will immediately expose the country around the uranium mine sites to the diffusion of radioactive materials. 
It is a natural consequence of this legislation that at this very moment in the Northern Territory the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony),  the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner),  a member of the Senate and a member of the House of Representatives are confronting a problem that is pressing now and will grow. The consequences on their tribal life of mining the radioactive material are unknown to the people most directly affected by it, but they have a great capacity for survival. In their own way, using their own natural ability to foresee events in order to ensure their own survival, they are making an issue of this matter now before it is too late. That in itself should be a great lesson to the Australian people, who are being hoodwinked by the propaganda machine which daily and weekly is pushing out the idea that this is a safe proposition. It is my view that Australia is being hooked into international nuclear politics in a way that will keep us irrevocably in the uranium pipeline. It has been very well and forcibly said that we are losing the flexibility that we have as a nation to be able to say to other countries: 'You have taken the wrong path by playing around with fire, with a substance that can be of such great danger to mankind. ' 
A lot of people will not understand the point I am making but I have been in this Parliament for a long time and I have been on the hustings in this country. Honourable senators opposite do not understand the battle we had to convince members of their party that they should not get involved in Vietnam. We were told lies by the propaganda machine about the necessity to become involved there through the South East Asian Treaty Organisation pact. We were told many things about containment and the arrows coming from the north, and they were a whole lot of lies. Not only did we lose our men and shed the blood of our men in Vietnam; we also lost the flexibility that enabled us to go to the forums of the world and stand up as a people who have always been known to be fair and square with their fellow men. 
In this legislation we are backing ourselves into an indefensible corner. We will be hooked into the pipeline of supplying fuel to the nuclear industry, to people who say that they will adopt the safeguards. Where will the General Electric organisation or any of the other major organisations be in 100 years' or 200 years' time? Many of these multinational companies are folding up all over the world. They have no responsibility even to their shareholders, let alone to posterity. Yet we are asked to believe that they are conscientious and forward-looking. On every indication that we can find, they can give no guarantee, either to this generation or to future generations, that they can dispose of nuclear wastes. Other speakers have made the point that these substances could fall into the hands of illintentioned people who could trigger off international incidents from which there would be no way out. 
I would like to refer to a special report on the storage of uruanium waste that was presented last year through the  Four Corners  forum. Quite a number of authorities from the United States took part in a seminar on the mining and exporting of Australian uranium, and it was concluded that the matter is far from settled in the minds of the Australian people. For that reason, we on this side of the chamber will continue to use whatever methods we can through the media to warn the Australian people, whenever we have the opportunity, as we have done on so many occasions in the past when we have seen thoughtless people, opportunists, people after a fast buck who have been prepared to sell their fellow men down the drain for the immediate gain, disregarding the longer range view that we have taken on these matters. This report states: 
In the United States, the White House, Congress, and the nuclear industry itself are trying to answer some of the questions still unresolved. 
Yet, after listening to the contributions made in this debate by honourable senators on the Government side of the chamber, one would think that the issue was cut and dried, that everything in the garden was rosy. But the deeper one delves into the whole problem the more uncertainty one finds exists. One of the participants in this  Four Corners  program, Jeff McMullen, a commentator of the Australian Broadcasting Commission based in the United States, made this observation: 
It seems we're building the pyramids of a new age. A nuclear plant lasts just 35 years. You and I may live to be 100, and even the Neanderthal man is only 75,000 years old. But the radioactive waste inside these pyramids will be dangerous for 250,000 years. As our society believes that any progress involves a certain degree of risk, we're going to weigh that risk by asking one basic question: whether the problem of atomic waste has brought us to the threshold of our ability to manage our own plant. 
The problem is as serious as that. Here we are in a democratic country which has vast resources, amongst which is uranium, and the Government is making a determined effort to contribute to what could be the cycle for the destruction of the fabric of this earth. The situation is as serious as that. Yet Government senators will not face up to that very serious situation. It is a source of amazement to me that the Japanese people are able to be sold the idea that they can gain temporarily from the use of thermo-nuclear power in the generation of energy when they have experienced Hiroshima and Nagasaki. They should realise that minor accidents have occurred at reactors in the United States. It has been more by good luck than by good management that these accidents have been hushed up. But the fact that they can happen, that they will happen, and that human lives are threatened by the possibility of an increase in the number of accidents of this type in nuclear reactors is a matter that should be exercising our minds. 
One of the people interviewed on this  Four Corners  program was a man who has devoted himself to the public good in the United States. He is often criticised and even despised by the selfish, greedy, avaricious, self-seeking, so-called capitalists who dominate so many parts of the privileged section of the Western world. I refer to Ralph Nader. He calls the so-called plans of those who defend the safeguards, or so-called safeguards, in the nuclear industry a blueprint fantasy. In that interview he said: 
The nuclear industry and the government have been saying for years that they think there is a solution for radioactive waste disposal for 200 or 500 thousand years, but they haven 't found it, and one of the reasons they haven 't found it is because it's probably the most extraordinarily difficult technological solution ever devised in our civilian economy. It is horrendously difficult and horrendously costly and if it  wasn't  for the sudden rise in oil prices in the last few years we wouldn't even be talking about nuclear now. 
Those observations come from people who have lived in a country where the development of nuclear energy is going on apace. Ralph Nader went on to observe: 
There is enough radioactive waste now, enough plutonium in the United States and other countries to produce hundreds of nuclear bombs or if they are exposed to the atmosphere to destroy hundreds of thousands, if not millions, of people, so that that's the criteria by which we judge whether there should have been radioactive waste disposal solved before the nuclear power plants were on line. 
That is the simple proposition which we on this side of the chamber are putting forward. If it can be proved that the disposal of nuclear waste is foolproof, if it can be proved that there is a means of disposal so that the waste will not be a menace to people employed in the industry and so that it will not be used by people of evil intent for waging war against their fellow man, and if it can be proved that the substance will not be used by terrorists who wish to gain some temporary advantage, then civilisation will continue into the future. But it will do so only if the problems are solved before we embark on what is, in my view, the commencement of a very dangerous and a very harmful experiment in human behaviour. 
Man is at a threshold of his evolution. The scientists have got ahead of the ordinary citizen. The great faculties which have been provided and the great improvements in the exchange of information and knowledge which have been made in the recent past have enabled man to come to grips with so many of the unknown quantities which face mankind. It is now a matter of which road we take. Do we take the road along which history unfortunately has led us in the past and on which we have to follow the continuing animal cycle of war, of want, of hunger, of misery and that type of thing? Or will man be able to choose the path on which he can emancipate himself from the darkness of the past and use his great developments to his advantage? 
We live in a world which unfortunately has not been able to emancipate itself from the selfishness, the greed and the avarice which has brought about so much unhappiness and friction in the past. I believe that at this time in our history when we can embark upon an era in which man can be liberated from many of the disadvantages of the past we should tread very warily in the use of thermo-nuclear power. I will admit that to follow that path could be of tremendous advantage to mankind, provided the safeguards are there. On the other hand, it could bring about his destruction. The Government is finding that there are minor disturbances and uncertainty in its own ranks. I sincerely hope that that influence will prevail in persuading the Government to scrap this legislation and to wait until we have the safeguards for which we are asking. By doing so it will maintain some sort of unity within its own ranks. But if it is not very careful it will split not only the people of Australia but also its own organisation on this issue. As I started off by saying, I support the attitude of those on this side of the chamber who believe that those safeguards should be assured before we tie ourselves into the cycle of nuclear power generation from which there will be no withdrawal once we start along the path. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. I point out to the Minister that there are allegations that the casualty department of the Canberra Hospital was remiss in the diagnosis and care of the former head of the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet,  Sir Alan  Carmody, when he visited the hospital after a heart attack.  Sir Alan  was discharged to his home where a short time later he had another attack and on being taken to the Woden Valley Hospital was found to be dead on arrival. As there has been no coroner's inquest, will the Minister order a departmental inquiry into the circumstances surrounding the allegations with a view to having the procedures carried out in the casualty department of the Canberra Hospital lifted to the highest possible standard? 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Education, and I put it understanding that recurrent and equipment funds for the Maritime College in Launceston are to be provided each year from the education vote,  to  be decided by the Advanced Education Council in the normal way, having regard to the priorities of all the colleges. I therefore ask: Is it a fact that funds for the operation and maintenance of the proposed Casey university will not be provided through the Tertiary Education Commission but through a separate defence vote? If that is so, why is the university to be treated differently from other universities and how will its priorities compare with those of tertiary education generally? 
-Will the Minister for Social Security inform the Senate whether she has received a report prepared by a First Assistant Secretary in the Public Service Board,  Mr B.  Hamilton, relating among other things to social security expenditure? If she has, does the report show that $2 50m or 14 per cent of the total social security budget has been wasted in a 12-month period because of maladministration by the Department of Social Security? Finally, does the Minister confirm or deny the implication in this report that there has been what is described as staggering maladministration for which the Minister ultimately must be responsible? 

 - Mr President, I congratulate you on your election to the high office of  President  of the Senate. I feel certain that you will continue to preside over the Senate with your usual good humour, tolerance and great dignity, and I wish you well in this term of office. 
-The ministerial statement that has been made in the Senate and that has already been made in another place by the Minister for Transport (  Mr Nixon)  is an indication, I believe, of the inability of this Government and the Treasury to grasp the consequences of the cheeseparing and the skinflinting that is going on at the direction of Treasury. The statement claims that Australia has one of the best aviation records in the world. Australia had one of the best aviation records in the world. 
-I am contradicting this statement because in the last six months that record has been sadly blemished as a consequence of the lack of proper funding of the Department of Transport as is evidenced by - 
You would not know an aircraft from a blowfly and you are only buzzing like one, so keep quiet. 
You are just muttering in your beard. Keep quiet and let me have a go. 
-I am saying that in the last six months, in Victoria in particular but all over Australia, the record of the safety of civil aviation has been very sadly blemished. That has occurred as a consequence of the lack of staff and of the deterioration in the very high standards which existed in the former Department of Civil Aviation. The figures show that since 1975 the number of officers and personnel in the Department of Transport has been reduced by 1 ,600. That in itself is a ridiculous situation, especially when it is noted that the number of people travelling is increasing, that the volume of traffic is building up and that the facilities at aerodromes are inadequate. The political situation which developed when an alternative aerodrome was planned for New South Wales in such a busy area was absolutely scandalous. Every ounce of political capital was squeezed out of trying to provide an alternative to the Mascot airport. Now we are facing the consequences of a government which has set out to use politics and to use economies in areas where informed people would fear to tread. 
This statement is an indication of the general arrogance of the Government and members of the Cabinet. The disease is spreading from their leader. Their leader would without doubt be the most arrogant and - 
-I would say that he is very forgetful. That disease of forgetfulness is spreading. As well as that, he has behind him a disgusting, overwhelming majority of people who are interested in the headlines about the stock exchange and the effects of the Budget. Like  Senator Archer  who has been interjecting, they are very interested in land deals and matters of that nature which are the result of the Government's policies. But we are drawing attention to a very serious situation which involves the lives of the people of Australia. The fact is that the civil aviation section of the Department of Transport is not able to police the very severe standards that have been set in the past. 
I cite as an example the allocation of A class licences. Flying is a very popular sport with young people. One has only to drive past the Canberra airport or any other airport to see the proliferation of private aircraft. It is easy for people to get a pilot's licence. An officer of the Department will let an applicant for a licence go through his circuits and bumps but because the subsequent procedures cannot be followed up the licence is issued. After that person has done a few more hours flying he is allowed to carry non-paying passengers. But the policing of the efficiency of these people is such that an ever-increasing staff is required to see that they are thoroughly capable not only of flying themselves but also of carrying such passengers and of coping with circumstances that can crop up at any time when flying an aircraft. Having been the pilot of an aircraft myself, I know from my own experience the suddenness with which weather conditions can change. 
-Senator Archer would not give anyone-- 
I am just trying to drive something into the thick head of the honourable senator who is interjecting. A number of accidents have happened recently in our winter weather conditions. Those accidents have been due mainly to human error. Because of sudden variation in weather conditions and unusual weather conditions, those people who have not had enough experience in blind flying and who have not been supervised sufficiently even to the extent of flying under a hood in an aircraft have not been able to cope with changed weather conditions in which they have not been able to fly visually. They have not been able to see the horizon and have not been able to keep their balance. A term used in flying is 'flying by the seat of your pants'. That is flying with your faculties, with your visual capacity, your sense of balance and the like. But once the weather closes in and you are in cloud, all of those senses are disturbed and you have to rely implicitly on your instruments. You have to have the ability to read those instruments. That comes from experience. It comes from building up your operational hours. With experience you are able to cope with changing weather conditions. In a series of accidents which have happened recently people have flown into the sea, into mountain tops-- 
And into houses.  Senator Archer  would not have a clue. He lives in a little backwoods. If he wants to interject on these occasions he has to take what is coming to him. The position is so serious that all honourable senators should be aware that something is very wrong in the Department of Transport because of the growing number of accidents, the growing number of complaints coming from the staff and the whole breaking down of the high standards thai have always been maintained in this Department. 
It is a very poor defence for the Minister for Transport,  Mr Nixon,  who himself is a very selfsatisfied and smug person and a very arrogant man, to attack Peter Morris, the shadow Minister for Transport, for drawing to his attention and to the attention of the people of Australia the state of affairs which not only is present but also is continuing to be aggravated by the Government's policy. I hope that my contribution will increase the pressure on the Government to get the Treasury people to have another look at what they are doing in the area of air safety and of that part of our lives in Australia which involves transportation by air. 
I enter this debate to support the amendment which has been moved by the Leader of the Opposition,  Senator Wriedt,  in relation to the closing of the Rhodesian Information Office. This is an opportune time for both of these matters to be dealt with together. I feel also that I should put on record my views about the so-called 'Croatian Embassy'. I consider that the fashionable refuge of loss of memory is very prevalent at the present time in this country. I seek to revive the memory of some of those people who forget, perhaps conveniently, and others who are not old enough to remember that during the 1939-1945 war Ante Pavlic led a group of people in Yugoslavia who were hostile to the British and Australian allied forces in Europe and who were traitors to our cause. The cause that they were fighting was a similar one, namely, for the establishment of a fascist Croatia. I believe that we in Australia should treat with great respect the minority ethnic groups and give them every opportunity to develop and to widen their cultural activities here. I believe that they should be respected for their individual contributions and that their status should be treated with the greatest respect in this country. 
I consider that the Government in introducing this legislation has come to grips with something which has been festering in Australia for the last 25 years. At last it has grasped the nettle, because the ultimate in effrontery for this minority group of a minority group is what has been happening. At this stage I pay tribute to the Croatian people who have come to Australia and who have made a magnificent contribution to the development of this country. The majority of them are law abiding and decent citizens. I believe that the smaller group who have formed themselves into what one would call almost a guerrilla band fighting a lost cause have caused great embarrassment to all governments. In the past they were given a certain amount of encouragement because they came under the general banner of being antiCommunist, and anyone who was not antiCommunist in Australia during the long period of the Menzies regime and in later years up till now, anyone could be classified as being not friendly to the Government, could be placed in the category of being a Communist. This small group of people was able to gather a certain amount of sympathy and strength as a result of attaching themselves to this so-called popular anti-Communist bandwagon. Ultimately they were able to reach the stage of expressing themselves in the manner in which they have created the 'Croatian Embassy'. 
It is my view that the legislation admits that we have obligations under international law to make certain that the consulates and other diplomatic representation are properly accredited. It is highly embarrassing to a government, whichever political persuasion it may be, to have an organisation such as this intruding into the accepted form in which consular representation is maintained. For that reason I place on record my appreciation of and congratulations to the Government for having at long last reached the stage of putting into the legislation of this country a complete prohibition against such a charade which previously gave encouragement to people who at times in their history- I do not know whether this still happens- have formed themselves into paramilitary groups and who have used Australia as a springboard to go into Yugoslavia. They have been arrested and punished there for acts of terrorism and the like in that country. That brings Australia into disrepute not only in that country but also in other countries of the world. 
I believe that now the Government has taken this official stand we will see the situation in which the dissident Croats will realise that Australia expects them to join in with the ordinary lifestyle of Australia. We are asking them to try to forget their grudges and their difficulties which supposedly exist in their minds about the far distant past of Croatia. They have to realise that there is now no future for them in acting as a terrorist minority, which is certainly the way in which they have been acting in the past. The abolition of the 'Croation Embassy' is the final symbol to indicate that the days of organised terrorism in Australia for these people are over and that they have to act as ordinary Australia citizens. They have a great opportunity here to start a new life and to bring up their children as Australian citizens with the same common purpose that all Australians have. I commend the Government. I also support the amendment which I believe could tidy up the provisions of this legislation by incorporating the closing of the Rhodesian Information Office which, in my view and in the view of the Opposition, could create dissension and division in our community. I support the amendment. 
Earlier today we had a -discussion on a statement, by the Minister for Transport,  Mr Peter  Nixon, on aviation safety. He stressed that there was a need to reassure the people of Australia, who have been caused quite unnecessary concern by irresponsible statements. I believe that for the record I should refer to an article in today's Melbourne  Herald  that perhaps could be better understood by the Senate if 1 were to read it verbatim and to point out that some of the material that I submitted and that most of the material that was submitted by the shadow Minister for Transport, the honourable member for Shortland, Peter Morris, in another place is borne out by this factual article. I would like to have it recorded in this first reading debate. It is headed: ' Minister must calm down '. it reads: 

 Mr Peter Nixon is sitting in a very hot seat as Australian Minister for Transport. Professionally , he had a bad weekend One newspaper quoted a 'leaked ' document from his department ordering restrictions in buying emergency equipment for Victorian and Tasmanian airports. Another reported a statement by the  president  of the Civil Air Operators' Association that work fatigue among air traffic controllers was reaching critical levels. 
A third article carried an attack by the Australian Federation of Air Pilots on a reduction of fire-fighting services at Sydney airport at the weekend. It was the latest concrete complaint on a theme of warnings by aviation specialists over a lack of materials, of staff shortages and of a lack of experienced air control officers because of 'disillusionment'. 
To all this, the recent spate of light aircraft crashes, and to a succession of airliner near-miss incidents, one of  Mr Nixon's  answers has been to quote statistics that apparenly do not impress the people on the job. Another was to say that the Budget would show where the Government's heart was in air safety. 
The Budget has, however, left  Mr Nixon  under industry accusations that spending on air safety and associated services has been cut by four per cent in real terms. He has now resorted to blaming a campaign 'through the media to damage the industry 's morale and scare passengers '. What pointless nonsense. 
If  Mr Nixon  thinks that everything is fine in the air and at the airports, and that newspapers should not report what his pilots, controllers and officials say, he should read recent statements by  Sir Reginald  Swartz,  Sir Richard  Williams, and  Sir Reginald  Ansett. Or does he want to silence them, too? 
Having read that newspaper article into the record, I should like to conclude my remarks by saying that the vitriolic attack that was made by the Minister does him no credit. I believe that he has been badly advised because along the line in the aviation industry there is great disillusionment. Whoever is advising the Minister needs to have another look at the situation. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, as Minister representing the Attorney-General, the following question, without notice, on 13 April 1 978: 
In view of the interest in government and politics generated through seminars, symposiums, et cetera, will he contact the Attorney-General to have a review made of the prices charged for copies of High Court judgments, particularly the recent findings on the Privy Council decision? I was astonished to learn that the price of a copy of that judgment was as high as $11. As these publications are about the equivalent of the Daily  Hansard  in size, why is the cost for a copy of a judgment so much greater than that for a Daily  Hansard,  especially as law students and other interested people should be entitled and encouraged to read these documents by having them available at a much more reasonable price? 
I direct my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate even though its subject matter concerns several Ministers. I would like to point out that the Leader of the Government in the Senate and other Ministers would have been aware of the section of the Ranger uranium environmental report of  Mr Justice  Fox which advised that the creek systems of Goodparla and Gimbat be included in the Kakadu reserve in the Northern Territory. As deep concern is being expressed by many people, particularly the Tasmanian Conservation Trust, that the areas of Goodparla and Gimbat are to be excluded from the reserve, would the Minister allay the very strong rumours to this effect by restating government policy on the matter? 

 - Mr President, my question is directed to you. I refer to the present discontent that exists among members of the Parliament House staff working in the refreshment rooms, cafeteria and kitchens. As co-chairman of the Joint House Committee, will you inform the Senate whether the officer engaging a certain person for the staff in the kitchen knew at the time of the engagement that the person was a notorious, psychopathic union hater? Will you investigate an allegation that some weeks ago a senior member of the Joint House Department was disturbed by members of the Parliament security force at the rear of Parliament House checking on the arrival of the kitchen staff very early in the morning with a pair of binoculars? If either of these allegations is substantiated will you, as co-chairman of the Joint House Committee, make a report to the Parliament on whether such conduct is highly provocative and objectionable to all Australian citizens? 
I present the following petition from 282 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate: 
We the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth, in Tasmania respectfully showeth: 
That lack of access to television transmission in the Lilydale- Underwood area in Northern Tasmania is a severe disadvantage to the wellbeing of those in the area. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled should urge the Federal Government to take action to rectify this situation. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 

 -Mr President, in your usual inimitable style you have shown your impartiality and your ability to handle the very delicate situation that we have before us in the Senate. I too am among those honourable senators who were unable to raise this matter at Question Time today. There are some points on which I wish to have your guidance,  Mr President.  Perhaps when you finally make a report you will incorporate in it some of the questions and will supply an answer in due time. What alarms me about this whole situation is that the Joint House Department has as its function the provision of the normal facilities and amenities for the Parliament. It is the responsibility of that Department to see that the administration of that area is carried out with tact, with discretion and with sympathy to enable this Parliament to maintain the level of dignity that it should maintain. 
I am alarmed that you,  Mr President,  have been placed in a most invidious position by being unwittingly involved in a pattern of union baiting which, in the last few weeks, has manifested itself in industrial disputes in three States and Territories of this Commonwealth- Victoria, 
New South Wales and the Australian Capital Territory. The steps have been carefully retraced of how you became involved in it and why you were obliged to make a statement to the Senate about the crisis that had arisen amongst the kitchen staff. In due course, I would like an answer to this question: Should not the administrative officers of the Joint House Department have sought your advice when this situation first arose? After all, the person who was to be appointed evidently was known to them to be involved in a court action. Regardless of whether  Mr Dearson  has denied that the person who was to be engaged as a kitchen hand had informed him that he was involved in this type of court action- that he was anti-union, a self-employed man, a sub-contractor who perhaps was not entitled to unemployment benefit under the Social Services Act- this person was able to get the appointment. I would like to know whether this particular person had any experience as a kitchen hand. 
This is the point. I would like to know whether any other people who were experienced as kitchen hands were available. 
I would like to know whether any other applicants were available through the Commonwealth Employment Service to carry out this job, particularly in view of the fact that this man was notoriously an antiunion person. After all, it is the responsibility of officers of the Joint House Department to carry out the duties of providing the amenities and facilities in this Parliament in the smoothest and most tactful way. Those people have failed in their job of carrying out those duties that they have been asked to perform. They may think that they are placed in the position of an employer but they are not. They are subject to the Presiding Officer and, in turn, the Presiding Officer reports to this Senate. In my view they are not entitled to be able to conduct a running fight with employees without consultation with the people who eventually will be involved in and concerned with this matter. 

 Mr President, I would also like to know whether at any time there was any consultation as to whether any experienced kitchen hands were available as an alternative to this man who obviously- there was no alternative- would cause industrial disputation on his engagement. 
Was the selection of this man made and information purposely withheld from any other person, particularly yourself,  Mr President,  your cochairman, or the Joint House Committee? If so, why, in view of the fact that this dispute was likely to occur, was it withheld from you, your co-chairman and the Joint House Committee? 
Finally, I point out- and this has not previously been reported to the Senate- that there is deep discontent amongst the kitchen staff in Parliament House. It should be a good job. It should be a pleasant job. The people who are there are very pleasant indeed. I have been a member of this Parliament for longer than has any other senator, and I must say that in that staff one comes in contact with some of the finest and most obliging and thoughtful people one would find anywhere in this country. Why are they discontented? They are discontented for the simple reason that the people who are administering that Department are not handling their job properly. This has put you,  Mr President,  in this very invidious position. I do not want to see the Presiding Officer of this Senate in that situation. It is very serious and I hope that it will be a lesson that the officers of the Joint House Department are not just ordinary employers in the sense that they can throw their weight about and perhaps get in their own little pet idea that they can have a non-union man to show their own contempt of unionism; but that they have also to consider the smooth running of this Parliament. I hope that it will be a very serious and strong lesson to them so that in the future they will not do these things entirely on their own initiative; so that when a situation such as this arises they will consult people other than people within their own little circle. 
Can the Minister for Social Security inform the Senate whether the Department of Social Security is conducting departmental managerial courses and whether Professor John Hunt of Macquarie University is receiving a fee of $450 a day in payment for conducting these courses? If this is so, would the Minister obtain for me the total amount paid to Professor Hunt by way of fees and expenses for these departmental managerial courses? Further, will the Minister say whether these courses and these fees, paid at a time of government austerity in community welfare, are likely to be extended to other departments of the Public Service? Finally, as the courses are directed, I understand, to informing departmental managers which officers are 'self-motivated' and which are 'huddlers', can the Minister give the Senate a description of what is a 'huddler' and what proportion of them have been found in her Department? 
-by leaveThe matters arising out of the industrial dispute which led to the Refreshment Rooms being closed on 1 1 and 12 September are perhaps in a way a storm in a teacup but within them are some very, very deep principles which I think should have been exposed in this Senate. I want to thank you,  Mr President,  for the manner in which you have responded to our representations to you and the forthright way in which you have explained to the Senate the matters associated with and arising out of the dispute. In relation to the specific matter which I raised of an officer of the Joint House Department spying or pimping on the staff, it was highly offensive to me to think that in the Parliament of Australia we should have conduct of that nature. It is the very antithesis of what is necessary for good employeremployee relations. It builds up mistrust and discontentment amongst the staff, and that is not the sort of atmosphere that we should have in the Parliament itself. I think that the Parliament should be a model for employer-employee relationships, and if examples such as this go out to the public many of the criticisms which are levelled at the Parliament will be justified in a round about way. I appreciate the fact that you,  Mr President,  have had this matter investigated and exposed. 
Another matter which I would like to raise and which has been mainly covered by the previous speakers,  Senator McLaren  and  Senator Cavanagh,  relates to the flaunting by this  Mr Aper  of his advantage in being able to come along in casual clothes on pay day and telling the other members of the kitchen staff that they are working to earn money and that he can collect his money without working. It appears to me that he is taking the role of an agent provocateur. In my view that is a most undesirable role and one that should be examined. If he is doing this there are strong grounds for his being dismissed summarily. He was engaged for the session. I hope that with a recess starting after today, the session can be counted as finishing tonight. This man is provoking other members of the staff at a time when there is a certain amount of unease and when there are many outstanding matters which should be straightened out. If the information given to me about this man is correct, this matter should be dealt with very promptly. 
Finally, as the officer responsible for the administration of the Joint House Department and matters associated with the smooth running of this Parliament, I would very much appreciate it if you,  Mr President,  would take this matter one step forward to see whether a better relationship could be established between the administration and the staff in the Refreshment Rooms. As I said previously when I addressed you,  Mr President,  on this matter, we have loyal, longserving and capable people engaged there whose lives are involved in the successful and smooth running of this Parliament. They should be able to carry out their duties in a way in which they feel they can get pleasure from their gainful and constructive employment. When they are discontented their job is so much harder. This matter having been brought to the surface, I hope that it will be resolved harmoniously and peacefully by you,  Mr President,  keeping your eye on it very closely in the future. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. I am sure that he and all honourable senators will be deeply concerned to learn that historic relics unable to be displayed at the Australian War Memorial in many cases have seriously deteriorated because of inadequate facilities in the main building. Can the Minister give an assurance to the Senate that the $2m annexe at present being built in Mitchell in the Australian Capital Territory will be used as the Board of Trustees intended, namely, to conserve the relics and priceless art collection of the War Memorial? 
Will the Minister make available to the Senate as soon as possible details of the staffing planned for the new storage facility? If it is true that under staff ceilings imposed by the Department of Home Affairs this building will not be able to be used, will the Minister propose to Cabinet that a public appeal for funds be launched so that the Government can honour the sacred trust reposed in it to preserve this part of our national heritage? 
On behalf of  Senator McAuliffe,  I present the following petition from 24 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate assembled the petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the people of Australia having taken pan in the government of Australia through universal suffrage in December 1975 and again in December 1977 and that on the basis of their expressed choice at the ballot box the people of Australia gave authority to the LiberalNational Country Party Coalition to form a federal government to bring into effect specific policies promulgated throughout the length and breadth of Australia by the said Coalition and that, whereas by virtue of being elected through universal suffrage, the Government Members now sitting in the House of Representatives were authorised to implement their state objectives by legislation and that such authority did not extend to acting otherwise or to enact legislation not previously submitted to the will of the people, namely: 
 Revoking the legislation for twice-yearly pension payments. 
 Imposing a freeze on the free-of-means-test pension. 
 Unemployed divided into those with dependents and those without. 
 Imposing income tax on pensions under age pension age- invalid and repatriation service pensions; rehabilitation allowances and incentives; sheltered employment and allowances for tuberculosis sufferers (civilian and service) and any other impositions. 
Your petitioners submit that all or any of the foregoing proposed legislation of the Lower House, if implemented, will greatly disadvantage many thousands of citizens as either against their expressed will or not submitted to universal vote as the democratic right of the Australian people, therefore, 
Your petitioners call on the Senate as the House of Review to take appropriate action to release these persons from burdens unfairly placed in order to finance a deficit not of their making. 
And your petitioners in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question which is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate relates to the high and growing tragedy of unemployment in every State of the Commonwealth. The Leader of the Government would recall that the States were given permission at the last Australian Loan Council meeting to seek their own loan raisings overseas but when the States submitted a number of projects the Loan Council deferred them for consideration by a working party of State and Federal officials. As these loan raisings involve important works and employment creating projects in every State, I ask: What has become of the working party report? Has the working party completed the report and, if so, when will some action be taken in the matter of overseas loan raisings by the States? If the report is not completed, what is the reason for the delay? 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General. I refer to an article which appeared in the  Canberra Times  of 1 1 October, two weeks ago- I intended to ask this question last week but was unable to get the call- and which reported that about 70 Rotarians unexpectedly encountered what appeared to be a clandestine militia training session near Quirindi in the Upper Hunter Valley of New South Wales. The report stated that the trainees were dressed in jungle greens, storm trooper caps, brown belts and black boots and were carrying knives, rifles and water canteens. 
When startled they made off in a vehicle with an obscured numberplate, the number of which was obtained by a member of the Rotary group. It was stated in the article that the Commonwealth Police had received no report of illegal training. Has the Attorney-General received any report at all from the Commonwealth Police on this matter? Is there any evidence of a conspiracy under the Crimes (Foreign Incursions and Recruitment) Act? If so, which foreign country was or is the target and has the Commonwealth Police informed the Department of Foreign Affairs of this incident? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. It follows the recent controversy about discrimination against Jewish airline travellers by Qantas Airways Limited. I must pay a tribute to those who acted with such alacrity to ensure that this very reprehensible practice was discontinued. But is the Minister aware that cheap package flights to South Africa are not available to non-whites? Although these holiday flights are widely advertised in Australian newspapers, South African Airways has refused to sell a ticket to a Tasmanian citizen of nonwhite descent- he is of Indian descent- even when he offered to opt out of the hotel and social aspect of the holiday so as to take advantage of the cheaper flight. Will the Minister review the right of the South African airline to continue to operate to and from Australia? 
I enter into this debate for the purpose of declaring my position. I do so without any expert knowledge of the subject of whether a woman should be able to choose how her lifestyle is planned, whether she should continue with a pregnancy if she does not wish to do so and, above all, who should be the person to decide that issue. This is perhaps a matter that has come into this chamber through the back door method of subordinate legislation by way of an ordinance and, in my view, through a method that has not been as straightforward as it might have been because it disguises the main purpose behind the ordinance, that is, to satisfy the pressures that a section of our society is exercising against the principle of the termination of pregnancy in any form. 
The argument today has ranged over the whole field of whether there should be termination of pregnancy in any circumstances. There are many people who would hold the view that there should be no termination of pregnancy, that life was created by God and that no man should put that life asunder. Of course this theory is carried into other areas, such as marriage. There is a theory that marriages are made in heaven and that what God has joined together let no man put asunder. But this theory is observed more in thought than in deed. We live in a hypocritical society and in a state of double-talk. We never come down to the fundamental issues of what actually happens in life today. 
The subject of pregnancy is with us whether or not we like it. Pregnancies have been occurring since the beginning of time and they will go on until the end of time. The idea that life begins at the moment of conception is a matter of opinion. As someone said, what about the millions of little sperms that are living but never create life. If honourable senators want to go into these theoretical areas of where life begins, let us have a different debate. What we are debating in the Senate today is the right of people to decide how they will live their lives. The matter has been decided by an overwhelming majority of males who have set themselves up as authorities on the way people should live and on the morals of other people. They are raising many outworn theories that perhaps were acceptable in times past when ignorance reigned supreme. But in a more enlightened age, it just becomes a ridiculous argument. 
It is my view that termination of pregnancy is a fact of life, not only in Canberra in the Australian Capital Territory but also throughout the world. One in three pregnancies is terminated in this country, whether or not we like to admit that fact. If the law of averages prevails, one in three pregnancies is terminated in Canberra. So what is all this humbug, all this cant and all this hypocrisy about? Why are we arguing about whether we should set up a clinic that is under the supervision of trained medical personnel to conduct the termination of a pregnancy. The Termination of Pregnancy Ordinance before the Senate today is avoiding the issue insofar as it will prevent, as far as it is possible, the legalisation and the acceptance of the fact of life that people will require to terminate pregnancies in the Australian Capital Territory. The Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly realises those facts. It has recommended to this Government- if any other government had been in power the Assembly would have made the same recommendations- that it requires a properly organised clinic to be run under proper supervision in Canberra and that it expects such a clinic to be established here. 
The members of the community in Canberra expect the Parliament, and I should think they expect the Legislative Assembly, to be reasonable and rational about this whole issue. Why are we closing our eyes to the facts of life? We are arguing around the point all the time as if it is a mystery, as if there is something sinister about a clinic where pregnancies can be terminated. 
People in their hearts and in their minds recognise that there must be such clinics. We must face up to the fact that clinics for the termination of pregnancies are necessary. 
The honourable senator must recognise the facts of life. What he thinks personally is no good. Abortions will take place. The medical profession accepts the fact that they will take place. We are spending all this time debating whether the Australian Capital Territory will have a properly organised clinic in the hospital grounds. That is what this Ordinance is directed towards preventing. It will prevent the setting up of a properly organised clinic. If honourable senators analyse the Ordinance they will see that it contains no provision to erect, to staff and to continue the operation of a clinic in the Australian Capital Territory for the termination of pregnancies. In my view, the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  has purposely hoodwinked this Parliament by introducing this Ordinance into this Parliament so that he can satisfy both of the pressure groups- on the one hand, those people who realise the inevitability of a properly organised clinic and on the other hand those people who, because of religious beliefs or other reasons, are diametrically opposed to the termination of a pregnancy. 
In my view, we are acting out a charade. It is a charade for us to be arguing about whether or not such a clinic should be established. We should be debating where the funds are coming from, how we will go about getting the most efficient staff and how we are to start to establish sex education clinics where we can teach people the facts of life instead of all this stupidity, darkness and ignorance that still exists in our community. In our so-called enlightened schools on which we are spending so much money no attempt is being made to teach children some of the facts of life to prepare them for their development as young people. We know that most females will become pregnant. In my view, it is repulsive for us to be wasting our time on the negative aspects of whether we should be establishing a clinic in the Territory. 
I would like to compliment  Senator Ryan  on her courage, despite all the criticism and all the attacks that have been made on her. This is an historic point in the debate on this very controversial matter. At least honourable senators have expressed their views and we will get the message through to the Minister that it is no longer possible to avoid the issue. It is a matter of facing up to the facts of life that the Australian Capital 
Territory needs a properly organised clinic that is financed by the Commonwealth Government. At a later stage it may be necessary to finance the clinic from taxation paid by the people of the Australian Capital Territory. We have a clear cut plan to establish a clinic at which one-third of those women who become pregnant can have their pregnancies terminated instead of using different methods as they are now. For example, they will not have to travel to Sydney or use backyard abortion clinics or whatever they may be called. Instead of that, they will be able to go along to those facilities and have the medical treatment that they desire. 
Finally, for us to pass judgment in this day and age on how a person deals with her moral and physical problem of whether she wishes to continue with her pregnancy is intruding on a matter which is for her to decide. It is a great decision for a person to make, but she has to bear the consequences. No one else can help her; she can only help herself and should be able to decide this matter herself. Many people have voiced their views that on moral and other grounds they cannot support this motion. To me it is a recognition that in this day and age, instead of our living in the unenlightened society that has prevailed in this country and many other Western countries for centuries, the veil is lifting and people will see reason and will be able to assist those who want to plan their lives and be able to plan their families so that they will support the children that they can afford to rear and the ones that they feel that they are capable of seeing through their early childhood on to maturity, and in that way fulfil their proper destiny. 
If we try to stop that inevitable process, we will be acting in the same way as those people who have opposed many of the reforms and needs that our present society enjoys. I delare myself to be in support of the motion to disallow this ordinance because in my view it is negative and looks backward rather than forward. I think that the Senate would be serving not only the community of Canberra but the whole Australian community well if it were to have a completely new look at this problem and assist in setting up in Canberra the facilities that any enlightened and modern community should have. Therefore I support the motion. 
I ask the Minister, in view of his reply to my previous question- I thought perhaps the courtesy may have been extended to me by the Minister of replying to me directly rather than indirectly through another senator- whether he heard the broadcast on the Australian Broadcasting Commission on 9 November in which  Mr Kel  Richards and  Mr David  Margen, the interrogators for the ABC, asked a third generation South African who has been living in Australia and is now an Australian citizen: 
Did you make inquiries then as to why you had been excluded from the tour? 
This gentleman replied: 
I didn't make any inquiries because I didn't want to stir anything up, you know, I have relatives in South Africa and people do visit me from there and it is rather dangerous to make such inquiries but I believe that my application was turned down because my name gives me away. 
I ask the Minister whether the part of the letter that he has had incorporated - 
I ask the Minister whether he has seen paragraph 8 of the letter which he has had incorporated, which states: 
Contrary to popular belief there are a large number of resorts, hotels, restaurants, theatres, sports grounds, game reserves and other facilities in South Africa which are open to all races including coloured people who live in the Republic. 
I also ask the Minister whether he saw in the  Australian  of 1 November 1978 a letter from  Mr L.  Clarke of Uxbridge, United Kingdom, who is Australian in which  Mr Clarke  wrote: 
For most of South Africa's much-publicised beaches are whites only', as are nearly all night clubs, cinemas, hotels, guest houses, bars and even public swimming pools. 
I ask the Minister whether, as was requested by the sales manager of South African Airways, he would have an inquiry set up into the application of apartheid in South Africa on tourists of any colour or religion who take advantage of the package tours, and whether all of the facilities that are claimed by South African Airways are made available to them. 
-The Committee stage of the Appropriation Bills gives us an opportunity every year to draw attention to many of the anomalies and shortcomings that exist in the administration of Parliament under headings relating to salaries and the general administration of the Parliament. I draw attention to another very important matter that is confronting the Parliament at present, namely, the timing of the decision that has to be made between now and the end of this year on the new and permanent parliament house. The matter of office accommodation for senators is a hardy annual. There is no doubt about it. The accommodation provided for senators and members of the House of Representatives in Parliament House from my experience compares most unfavourably with any parliament that I have visited in the British Commonwealth. 
It is, of course, a reflection on us all that the accommodation facilities here are at such a level. It is quite easy to give an explanation. This Parliament House was constructed as a temporary building for a parliament in which, at the time, there were six senators from each State- a total of 36 senators- and twice that number of members in the House of Representatives, 72 in total. Even though it was a temporary building, since that time the need has constantly arisen for more accommodation. Through expediency and through improvisation, wings were added and extensions were provided wherever possible. This Parliament House has been well described as the greatest rabbit warren in the country and possibly in the world. Those who have had any experience of rabbit warrens would know that the way rabbit colonies extend is by seeking new areas to burrow in when they reach the end of the original burrow. It is a continuing process. 
We hear continual complaints from honourable senators about staff and the inadequacy of the back-up assistance that is becoming more and more a requirement to enable honourable senators to fulfil their jobs as representatives of the people. The reason for this situation is that physically extra staff cannot be accommodated in this Parliament House. It is not possible to accommodate extra staff, but instead of blaming the administration we should blame ourselves because over a period of years we have had the responsibility of providing for the future but we have not measured up to it. But now we have reached a situation where a representative committee of dedicated members of this Parliament has been meeting regularly. The Joint Committee on the New and Permanent Parliament House has worked longer and harder than most other committees. I have been associated with committees on the new and permanent parliament house over a period of, I suppose, 25 years. But I have been encouraged to think that this Committee will be the one that will have the great honour and great responsibility of making the final decision. 
The background work that has been done by officers of the National Capital Development Commission is deserving of the highest praise. There is no doubting that. It is an inspiration to see the degree of dedication and the conscientious work of these people. I feel that the work of that Committee and of the members of the NCDC deserves a decision. A decision has to be made and I hope it will be favourable. I take the opportunity tonight to use whatever persuasion I can to ask honourable senators who will attend their party meetings tomorrow morning to try to influence their colleagues, who have perhaps not given sufficient thought to the importance in every way of alleviating the inadequacies of this Parliament House, to agree to the building of a structure that will be a credit to this generation- a structure that will create employment and will overcome the hardy annuals that are discussed year after year at the time of appropriations when honourable senators talk about the shortcomings of this place. We should get on with the job of building the new and permanent parliament house. 
My good friend,  Senator Reginald  Bishop has asked me to name the members of the Committee. I will do so. The Joint Committee on the New and Permanent Parliament House was formed on 7 March 1 978 and its members are: The  President, Mr Speaker,  the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Ellicott), Senator Evans, Senator Maunsell, Senator Melzer, Senator Missen, Senator Young, Mr Haslem, Mr Innes, Mr Keith  Johnson,  Mr Keating, Mr Lloyd, Mr Simon  and myself. I must say that the members of the Committee have applied themselves very conscientiously to their part of this job. Each and every one of them has high hopes that we can make the 200th anniversary of the discovery of Australia in 10 years' time,. in 1988, the time when all Australians can participate in the great event of the opening of a new and permanent parliament house in which the people of this country will be represented on a site which is second to none in the Commonwealth- that is, on Capital Hill. 
The long debate that has taken place to decide finally on the site has resulted in a decision that the new and permanent parliament house be built on Capital Hill. The next decision, the vital decision, is to get the project off the ground. Tomorrow at these important and vital party meetings members will be given the opportunity democratically to make the decision on this controversial matter which has been discussed at the very highest level. Even though I disagree on many occasions with back bench supporters and Ministers of the Government, I feel it in my bones that for once their better judgment will prevail tomorrow and they will reach a decision of which all Australians will have every reason to be proud. 
I would like to extend a little further the matter raised by  Senator McLaren  relating to the publicity campaign that was conducted by Treasury. 
As he has pointed out already, it is estimated that $300,000 was spent on this campaign. It is accepted that if one side of a story is told the other side should also be told. To counteract this campaign, Treasury should undertake the responsibility of advising the Australian people in just the same way that as a result of the Budget a man earning the average wage, which is in the vicinity of $200 a week, will have to pay an extra $ 1.80 a week for the petrol he uses in his car to take him to and from work. Not only does he have to pay this $1.80 a week extra; he also has to pay other increased charges. I understand that in the Australian Capital Territory third party insurance for car owners is to be increased to $130 a year. This all adds to the cost of living. It is an imposition that is indirectly caused by Government policy. The people of Australia should be advised of such impositions by the Treasury which, in the final analysis, will collect the various direct and indirect taxes. 
Earlier we were talking about the cost of liquor and other commodities, such as tobacco and food, in the Parliamentary Refreshment Rooms and bars. The average man in the street is paying about the same price, perhaps a little less, as members of parliament are paying for these items in the parliamentary bar. So people who patronise the Parliamentary Refreshment Rooms and bars and who buy their cigarettes there receive no concessions at all. However, the average working man will pay $2 a week extra for the cigarettes and the drinks that he buys. I hope that Treasury will give equal time and space to telling the Australian worker that as a result of this Government's policy, it will be obliged to collect an extra $2 a week from the average worker for his cigarettes and his drink. Then there are the costs of clothing and footwear that the average working man is obliged to purchase to be able to carry on his job. They will cost an extra $ 1 .50 a week for the worker on the average weekly wage. Furthermore to the person buying his own home, the cost of losing the taxation deduction for mortgage repayments will be $3.50 a week while increased taxation will cost him an extra $3.20 a week. 
I remember very well the amount of money that was spent in government circles to entice the unsuspecting voter to vote for a particular party. An advertisement, depicting a fistful of notes, in effect stated: 'This is the amount of money you are going to get if you vote for the Liberal Party'. It amounted to blatant bribery. It was a gimmick. I think the Government will rue the day it ever used that type of propaganda. I think that such an attempt by a government to persuade people to vote for it in this fashion, by using the television media for the first time, depicting a fistful of dollars is reaching rock bottom. People of conscience will react against the party that used those tactics. The allocation for publicity and for advertising that assisted the Government to sell its policy, through the Treasury, should be used equally in reverse to tell the people how much they have been disadvantaged by the Budget. A great deal of publicity was given to the off-setting reduction of $2 a week for the health fund contribution. But no guarantee has been given that the 40 per cent rebate on doctors' fees will continue. I think some publicity should be given to this matter to warn people that they will need to cut their budgets and to cut their economic cloth to provide for this extra imposition that will inevitably come. It has been said that prices will continue to rise. Even the adulated  Mr Friedman,  the new apostle of modern economics who is supposed to be leading this Government out of the economic wilderness and who is taking it into the greatest economic jungle it has ever known is anticipating a further recession. He predicts the impossibility of this Government, or of the United States Government for that matter, finding a way in the foreseeable future out of the economic morass into which the system is leading them. 
The whole thing boils down to the fact that in November of last year, just 12 months ago, we were given promises as to what the Government was going to do. There was advertising by Treasury of the advantages that would accrue from government policy. In such a short period the situation has been completely reversed and most of the promises made have been dishonoured. I think the point made by  Senator McLaren  is well taken. He said that a similar amount of funds should be made available to the Treasury to be able to point out how well and truly the wool has been pulled over the eyes of the Australian working people. The costs of living are spiralling continually and receipts to the Treasury are spiralling. As a consequence, the great promises that were made just 12 short months ago have turned sour. I would like to see the truth being told to people by the Treasury in a way similar to the way in which it used funds to advertise government policy just a short time ago. 
I deeply appreciate that announcement of the honour that has been conferred upon me. I have become the father of the Senate and the father of the Parliament, which is rather a unique achievement. Longevity is one of the most difficult achievements in parliamentary life. There is the ever present fear of defeat or death. People usually speak well of one's parliamentary life when one dies. It is very pleasing that this announcement has been made. I appreciate it. I hope that after I ask my question I will still retain the title. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate and relates to the ever-growing concern and alarm of the Australian people about the takeover and rip-off of our natural resources by multinational organisations. Has the Minister seen reports that the Australian subsidiary of the Hospital Corporation of America is to operate an $18m private hospital, which is to be built in Melbourne, and that the fees of the hospital are to return a profit of 1 7 per cent, rising to 2 1 per cent as the hospital develops? Is this expected return on investment consistent with the Government's attempt to curb rising health costs, especially those generated by hospitals, and is it not considered almost unethical and immoral for multinational organisations not only to monopolise our natural resources but also to plan to turn the misfortune of sickness and ill-health into a profit-making investment? 
I preface my question to the Attorney-General by pointing out that it has been reported that the office of the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs issued a circular within the Department stating:   . . Australia enjoys normal diplomatic relations with Yugoslavia, of which Croatia is one of the constituent republics, and that the self-styled Croatian Embassy has no status. 
The circular continued: 
It is therefore necessary to refrain from having any semblance of official contact with, or showing any official recognition of, a Croatian Embassy. A serious view will be taken of any action which is not in strict adherence of this requirement. 
The circular was issued over the signature of  Mr Norman  Fisher, Acting  Deputy  Secretary. Is the 
Attorney-General aware that the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs is posting its literature to this illegal office? When does the Government intend to enforce the Diplomatic and Consular Missions Act as it relates to the socalled 'Croatian embassy'? Is the Government being less than honest when it places legislation on the statute books with one hand and aids and abets the breaking of its own laws with the other? When will the Government bring down a statement clarifying its position on this matter? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources. I point out by way of preface that the Commonwealth and Tasmanian governments have made considerable contributions in both cash assistance and other concessions to assist the Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Company Ltd copper mine at Queenstown in Tasmania to continue its operations until the price of copper improves sufficiently to allow the mine to function economically and to give the people of Queenstown an opportunity of continuing in employment in the only industry in the town. It has just been announced that PekoWallsend Ltd will re-open its copper mining operations at the Warrego Mine at Tennant Creek in the Northern Territory, thus repeating the process of creating a surplus and glutting the market. Will the Government give immediate consideration to the setting up of a copper marketing authority to ensure that there is a continuity of production for the Mount Lyell mine in this highly competitive market and so assure the future of the people of Queenstown? 
-I had intended to raise the matter I am about to raise during the debate on the Audit Amendment Bill, which will be coming before the Senate soon and which outlines the responsibility of the Auditor-General to provide for the audit of the Government's accounts, sets out important controls which are fundamental to the accounting for receipts and payments under the control of parliamentary departments and departments of state and confers important powers and responsibilities on the Treasurer for financial management across the entire departmental spectrum. I regret that  Senator Harradine  is not present in the chamber tonight. Normally I would have waited for him to be present but his attendances here are becoming less frequent. So this matter concerning him and his successor in the Tasmanian Trades and Labour Council has to be raised in his absence. 
I refer to a matter that is of considerable concern to many people in Tasmania and, in particular, to trade unionists. It involves money intended for the use of a Commonwealth statutory body- the Trade Union Training Authority or TUTA, as it is known. I believe that money from the Tasmanian Government has been paid to the Tasmanian Trades and Labour Council for use by a Commonwealth body and has not been properly accounted for. I want to ask questions in relation to this matter and to ask that, if necessary, the Auditor-General or the Minister for Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  investigate this matter because of its serious nature. 
It was money paid to the Tasmanian Trades and Labour Council by the Tasmanian Government for use by a Commonwealth body- the Trade Union Training Authority. I ask: Has this money been misappropriated? Has it been used for a purpose other than that for which it was granted, namely, trade union education and, in particular, a State government supplement to Commonwealth Government funds for the Trade Union Training Authority? If there are no skeletons in the closet, why is the Secretary of the Tasmanian Trades and Labour Council not replying to specific questions being asked of him by the premier of Tasmania and by unions affiliated with the Tasmanian Trades and Labour Council? I have here two letters from different trade unions concerning this matter, written to the Tasmanian Trades and Labour Council.  Mr Deputy President,  I seek leave to have them incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The letters read as follows- 14th February 1979 

 Mr R. Watling, 
Secretary, 
TTLC, 
219 Main Road, New Town 7008 
Dear  Sir, 
In January 1974 the State Government paid $15,000 to the TTLC for an Education Program to employ an Education Officer who subsequently went on to the Commonwealth Payroll when the Interim Trade Union Training Authority was set up in April 1974. Since then the State Government has paid the TTLC $10,000 each year to the end of 1977 for Trade Union Education purposes, making a total of $55,000 in State Government Grants. 
It is a matter of concern to the ETU that the abovementioned amounts do not readily appear to be evident in the TTLC financial statements for that reason I would on behalf of the ETU request answers to the following questions. 
Why hasn't the $55,000 been shown in financial statements. 
Has the $55,000 been subject to Annual Audits. 
Who banked the money, what is the name of the account, at which bank and branch is it, what interest rate does it draw and how much interest has actually been paid on the $55,000. 
How much of the $55,000 and Interest is still available in this account and if any payments have been made from it, what TTLC Education Program received the money and who authorised the payment. 
Why have no reports on this money or any payments from it been made to the full TTLC and do State and National Councils of the Trade Union Training Authority know about it. 
Will you as Secretary/Treasurer, advise if the State Government have had regular reports on how its money has been used and will you table all correspondence, documents, any auditors reports on it and the relevant bank book at the next TTLC meeting. 
Yours faithfully, 
R. Devereux, 
Acting Secretary. 
ETU Tas. Branch. 20th February 1979 
Secretary, 
TTLC, 
Carolside', 219 Main Road, 
New Town 7008 
Dear  Mr Watling, 
Your statements quoted in the media on 16 March 1979 raise a number of additional questions and I ask that you both clear them up publicly now and place this letter on the agenda of the next TTLC Council Meeting. 
1 ) If the TTLC received $5 5,000 from the State Government to use for trade union education, why weren't the Officers of the TTLC told about it? 
Who authorised the TTLC Secretary to deposit $55,000 in an account other than an audited TTLC account? 
Who authorised the expenditure of moneys from this trade union education account'? 
4) What moneys were paid out of this account? 
5 ) To whom, and for what, were these moneys paid? 
How much interest was received on this account? 
What is the current balance in this account? 
Who were the TTLC Officers who 'late in 1977' gave consideration to the 'calling of applications for a union education officer separate from the TUTA "? 
Who authorised and who conducted the 'feasibility studies ' that you say were made? 
Who are the members of the 'trade union education committee' and who appointed them? 
When the Premier wrote asking the TTLC Secretary how the $55,000 had been spent, why did  Mr Watling  send the letter to TUTA which is a separate organisation? 
Yours fraternally, 
Rex Hevey 
State Secretary. 
Does the Secretary of the Tasmanian Trades and Labour Council,  Mr R.  Wading, not realise that these questions must be answered? Is he also protecting his predecessor,  Senator Harradine?  Both men received and signed for cheques issued by the Tasmanian Department of Education. The first cheque of $15,000 was paid to the Tasmanian Trades and Labour Council in January 1974 for an education program to employ an education officer who subsequently went onto the Commonwealth payroll when the interim Trade Union Training Authority was set up in April 1974. Since then, the State Government has paid the Trades and Labour Council $10,000 each year to the end of 1977 for trade union education. That adds up to $55,000 in State Government grants which have not been properly accounted for, either to the State Premier or to the full Tasmanian Trades and Labour Council.  Senator Harradine  not only received the first cheques paid during his term of office as Secretary of the Tasmanian Trades and Labour Council but also was the person who banked the 1976 cheque after he had entered the Parliament.  Mr Watling  banked only the last $10,000 paid in November 1977. Why was this money not placed in an audited Tasmanian Trades and Labour Council account or immediately forwarded to the State Council of the Australian Trade Union Training Authority? The annual reports of the Australian Trade Union Training Authority for 1975-76 and 1976-77 made no mention of the Tasmanian Government providing any funds. Yet when the Premier of Tasmania,  Mr Doug  Lowe, wrote to the Secretary of the Tasmanian Trades and Labour Council asking how the $55,000 had been spent,  Mr Watling,  the Secretary, forwarded the letter to TUTA, the Commonwealth body. 
I am asking what  Mr Watling  is trying to hide and I am also asking, because of the earlier history, whether  Senator Harradine  can provide the answer. Is there truth in the report that the money was deposited in a savings investment account attracting about 9 per cent interest? If so, then every cent of the considerable interest earned has to be accounted for. As the last audit of the TTLC accounts was a qualified one, it would seem that all its financial affairs are in a sorry state. Whatever the situation may be, the matter I am raising involves money intended for a Commonwealth statutory body- TUTA. 
It has not been answered.  Senator Walters  has been lecturing at the Authority at the invitation of these people, so she would want to protect them. If  Senator Walters  disagrees with me she will be able to get up later and answer the questions. 
I have done my homework and I am not going to pay attention to the interjections of  Senator Walters  because she does not know the facts and I do. 
I am giving the facts to the Senate tonight. I ask  Senator Walters  to be silent; I object to her interjections. 
It is embarrassing because the honourable senator who has just been interjecting has been speaking to National Civic Council students at the invitation of these people and therefore has a vested interest in the perpetuation of this very questionable situation. She might have to answer for it herself. However, I will continue with the more important part of my contribution, disregarding the interjections. I say that whatever the situation might be, the matter I am raising involves money intended for a Commonwealth statutory body and we in this Parliament are entitled to know whether the money, plus any interest accrued, has been properly accounted for. Perhaps  Senator Walters  or  Senator Harradine  can enlighten us on that. 
The Launceston  Examiner  of last Friday informed the public that  Senator Harradine  flew from Canberra on Thursday last especially to attend that night's meeting of the Tasmanian Trades and Labour Council. The newspaper heading concerning the report of the meeting read: "TTLC still in dark over money'. So I ask  Senator Walters  where her interjection comes into the matter.  Mr Watling  admitted to the meeting that the State Government grants for trade union education were intended to be administered on behalf of all unions in Tasmania, not only those affiliated with the TTLC. The only new information that  Mr Watling  provided to the meeting was that he had spoken to the Director-General of Education that day and would soon meet him to explain details of the fund and its operation. What sort of accounting for public money is this? It was not just last year that this fund was set up: It was five years ago. Both the present and the former Tasmanian Trades and Labour Council secretaries cannot continue to cover up the situation. The antics of these two manipulators of the Watergate variety would make good slapstick comedy if it were not such a serious matter. 
It would seem that the TUTA was unaware of the State Government grants and yet the State Government was given to understand that the money went to TUTA. Why has the $55,000 not been shown in the TTLC financial statements? Has the $55,000 been subject to official audit? Who banked the money? What is the name of the account and at which bank and branch is it lodged? What interest rate does it draw and how much interest has accrued? How much of the $55,000 together with interest is still in this account? If any payments have been made from it, what Tasmanian Trades and Labour Council education program received the money and who authorised the payment? Why have no reports on this money, or any payments from it, been made to the full Tasmanian Trades and Labour Council? Do the State and national councils of the Trade Union Training Authority know about it? There is no alternative to a full and frank explanation of these questions by  Mr Watling  or by  Senator Harradine.  The Auditors-General of both the Tasmanian and Commonwealth governments must meet their responsibility to investigate these serious questions concerning Treasury funds. 
-Last night I drew the attention of the Senate to a grave situation in Tasmania.  Senator Harradine  who has just resumed his seat was asked to answer a series of questions concerning a considerable amount of money, namely, $55,000. 
He evaded every question.  Senator Harradine  said that he could not find one correct statement in the charges that I made last night. I will reiterate them and confront  Senator Harradine  to show that he will lie his way out of anything. We know from a long way back that he can twist the truth - 
I did not say that he was a liar. I said that he would lie his way out of anything. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  I believe that there has been the use of words that could have been much more moderate in the case of both honourable senators. I would ask  Senator O  'Byrne to continue in more moderate terms. 
-I reiterate that  Senator Harradine  has not answered the questions that were posed. Until he comes clean and is prepared to table a statement about what happened to the $55,000 that went into his control and afterwards into the control of  Mr Watling  in the Tasmanian Trades and Labour Council, I will not give up this search for the truth.  Senator Harradine  is notorious in Tasmania for being able to worm and squirm out of any situation. He is not a bad operator. It has been said that he is a political gyroscope who rotates on his own verbosity. Tonight he gave an exhibition of saying a lot but finishing up having said nothing. 
I would like to reiterate the situation and I would like  Senator Harradine,  if he is a man, to deny what I am going to say. The money was granted over a period of five years. In reply to a letter directed to him from the State House, on 19 January the Minister concerned,  Mr Holgate,  said: 
I refer to your letter dated 18 December requesting information on grants paid by the State Government to the Trade Union Training Authority and I am pleased to provide you with the following information: Payment date, 18 January 1974. $15,000 forwarded to 41 Davey Street, Hobart. 
That was the address where  Senator Harradine  had established an ersatz branch of the Tasmanian Trades and Labor Council after having taken over the Council by the use of what would be classified as the most sophisticated type of fascist and mafia tactics. He displaced a very fine old man, Jack O'Neill, who was Secretary of the Trades Hall Council in Hobart. He took over all the small unions that Jack O'Neill had been looking after and used these small unions without having to give a statement of the membership or the affiliation fees that were paid by them. This is the way he took over the trade union movement in Tasmania- by the use of every underhand and snide method that has been known in the trade union movement in Australia. 
However, it was on 18 January that he received this first payment. Then on 12 December 1974 there was a further payment of $10,000. That was sent care of the Trades Hall, 41 Davey Street, Hobart.  Senator Harradine  signed for both of these cheques. It is on record that he signed personally for both of these cheques. On 15 December 1975- that is, after his election to this place- a further $ 10,000 was paid in, not care of the Trades Hall but just 'The Trades Hall, 219 New Town Road, New Town'. This was after  Senator Harradine  had organised to cash in on the Trades Hall building. At some later stage I will enlighten the Senate as to how  Senator Harradine,  through a devious method, formed companies with three directors, with a quorum of two, and now has control of the funds from the old Trades Hall in Hobart. He sold the other place that he bought to the Trade Union Training Authority. This fellow has track form. After I have told the Senate of the way in which this man goes on, he will not be so verbose in future in trying to bluff his way out of the situation in which he finds himself. On 29 November 1976, a further $ 10,000 was paid in care of the Secretary, 'Carolside' 219 New Town Road, New Town. This further cheque was signed by him as  'Senator Harradine'.  Then there was a change. On 9 November 1977, a further $10,000 was sent care of the Secretary, 'Carolside', 219 New Town Road, New Town. That cheque was deposited and signed for by a  Mr Robert  Watling, the successor to  Senator Harradine  as secretary of the Trades and Labour Council in Tasmania. The Minister says: 
Ail cheques were payable to the Tasmanian Trades and Labour Council. 
Why was  Senator Harradine  signing cheques for the Tasmanian Trades and Labour Council in November 1976 when he was a member of this Parliament? The Minister concluded by saying: 
I trust this information will be of assistance. 
It is certainly of assistance to me tonight to nail  Senator Harradine  to the mast as regards his attempt to pull the wool over the eyes of the Senate. 

 -Unfortunately, Senator Harradine will not divulge who are the auditors of the fund. I understand that the auditors who have been looking after the affairs of the Trades and Labour Council are the firm of Garrott and Garrott. The auditors have given a limited audit of the affairs of the Trades and Labour Council but there are many queries within these limits. On another occasion 1 will develop the situation about the affiliations and the payment of fees from affiliated unions, but that is another matter. These funds have never been audited. One cannot find out where the account is or what is the name of the account. These are the questions I posed last night and  Senator Harradine  has not answered one of them. 
Let me just elaborate a little on this matter. The State Government gave these sums of money for trade union education to the Tasmanian Trades and Labour Council in good faith. The money was not deposited in an audited Tasmanian Trades and Labour Council account or sent by the Tasmanian Trades and Labour Council to the Trade Union Training Authority. The only public knowledge of any of this money being given to the Tasmanian Trades and Labour Council prior to this year was when the initial $15,000 grant was made in January 1974 to enable  Mr Sean  Kelly to be employed in the trade union training field as the Tasmanian Trades and Labour Council's education officer prior to the commencement of operation of the Trade Union Training Authority, to which he was transferred in April 1 974. 
It is easy to see that  Senator Harradine,  in his usual devious way, wanted to forestall the efforts of  Mr Clyde  Cameron to set up the Trade Union Training Authority on a national level.  Senator Harradine  got a job for his own little stooge from the Electrolytic Zinc Co. It was a job for which he had no qualifications. I believe he did have a schools board certificate. But this man now is the Tasmanian Director of trade union training. He is one of the proteges of  Senator Harradine  who came in on this first $ 1 5,000 or part of it. 
Then there were certain people who were aware of what had transpired. The panel that appointed Sean Kelly was Arnold Currie, the Tasmanian Secretary of the Building Workers Industrial Union, then  President  of the TTLC Brian Harradine, then Secretary of the TTLC and Des Lavey, the then Division Secretary of the Australian Council of Salaried and Professional Associations and a man who has been persecuted by  Senator Harradine. His  own union has nominated him for this training authority and  Senator Harradine  is making certain that the union's delegate cannot be given his rightful position. The panel also contained David Llewellyn from the Council of Australian Government Employee Organisations and Peter Imlach, the Tasmanian Secretary of the Hospital Employees Federation. 
I am saying that they were members of the panel that appointed Kelly.  Senator Harradine  was the executive officer responsible for moneys disbursed from the $15,000 grant and was subject to the abovenamed Trade Union Education Committee. When later TUTA got under way,  Mr Bill  Mcpherson, the Regional Director of the Commonwealth Department of Labour and Immigration and  Mr John  Evans, representing the State Education Department together with Messrs. Currie, Harradine, Lavey. Imlach and Gerald Griffiths, who replaced Llewellyn from CAGEO, became the Tasmanian Interim Council for Union Training with  Senator Harradine,  then  Mr Harradine,  representing that body on the National Interim Council for Union Training.  Senator Harradine  is using these little steps up the hill for his own purposes. It was believed that TUTA had replaced the Trade Union Education Committee. All these people whose names I have mentioned believed that the interim committee was replaced by the general committee on the national scale. Currie and Lavey were unaware that any further State Government grants were given to the TTLC even though they were members of the Interim Council for Union Training. They were officers of the TTLC. Currie was the  President  until October 1977 and Lavey was Minute Secretary until October 1975. 
The Australian Trade Union Training Authority's first annual report of 1975-76 makes no mention of Tasmanian Government financial assistance to trade union education and the same is the story in the second annual report of TUTA, for 1976-77. I ask the question: Has  Senator Harradine  deceived TUTA?  Senator Harradine  is still a member of the Trade Union Training Authority's national and Tasmanian councils for union training. I pose the question that last year the trade union audit procedures were raised in the State Parliament by  Mr MacKinnon  whom I mentioned earlier. He said that the auditors Garrott and Garrott attached a qualified audit to the TTLC's annual report and announced that no audit procedures have been applied to determine the accuracy of the amounts receivable from affiliation fees'. In the report the auditors say: 
The scope of our audit has been limited in that no audit procedures have been applied to determine the accuracy of the amount receivable from affiliation fees. 
I wonder how  Senator Harradine  is going to answer these things. He did not answer them tonight. Last Thursday night when he went to Tasmania he told everyone here that he went home. The newspapers have it on record that he went directly from here and controlled a packed meeting in the Trades Hall in Hobart; that after 85 minutes of fierce debate he was responsible for moving a motion that the meeting- at which he had the numbers- set up a sub-committee to try to stop leaks to the Press. That was the outcome of the meeting. I ask you. What a farcical situation. He has dragged the trade union movement in Tasmania down with these conscientious people wanting to know of the affairs of their own organisation and being fobbed off with such stupidity as that. 
The trade unions affiliated with the Tasmanian Trades and Labour Council asked about its audit procedures. This is not new. In 1977 the Australian Workers Union disaffiliated over the same issue. Can the honourable senator answer that one? It is interesting to learn that as far back as June 1971 the honourable senator, as TTLC secretary, wrote to John Swallow of the Australian meat industry stating: 
We would request that this balance sheet be not discussed in the presence of persons outside of the trade union movement, for example the Press. 

 Mr Ian Doolan, Tasmanian branch  president  of the right wing Federated Ironworkers Association, and also TTLC executive member from November 1976 until October 1978, wrote to the Launceston  Examiner  on 9 December 1978 as follows: 
A secret meeting was arranged before the TTLC executive met to work out what we would do at the executive meeting. Maybe people at the secret meetings knew about the $55,000 but Tasmanian trade unionists were never told about it at the official executive meeting of the TTLC and it was never reported to the full council meetings of the mc 

 New Weekly, the National Civic Council organ, of which  Senator Harradine  had been, with his colleague  Mr Santamaria  and  Mr Maynes, Mr Watling  and  Mr Imlach  - 
-Chairman Moo.  News Weekly,  on 2 1 February, quotes  Mr Watling  as follows: 
Late in 1977 - 
I would like  Senator Harradine  to answer this one-  . . consideration was given to the calling of applications for a union education officer separate from the federally-funded Trade Union Training Authority but the plan was not feasible because there was not enough money due to the refusal of left wing unions to pay affiliation fees. 
So this fund that was supposed to have been available for trade union training has also been mixed up here with the National Civic Council. The plot thickens. This is the situation that is being investigated. Where is the money?  Senator Harradine  has not answered that question. Rex Hevy, recognised in the Tasmanian community as an industrial moderate union official and senior vice-president of the Tasmanian Trades and Labour Council during the years 1974 to 1977, the period of the State Government education grants, asked  Senator Harradine  and the TTLC officers who it was late in 1977 who gave consideration to the calling of applications for a union education officer separate from the Trade Union Training Authority. Who authorised, and who conducted, the feasibility studies that Watling 's media statement referred to? When the Premier wrote to the TTLC secretary about how the $55,000 had been spent, why did  Mr Watling  send the letter to TUTA, which is a separate organisation? I have a file here that undoubtedly gives a comprehensive history of the last five years of the administration of the Trades and Labour Council in Tasmania, of which  Senator Harradine  was for some years the secretary. Many questions on different aspects of the administration there have been asked, but on this one there has been deception on a scale that needs public scrutiny. I have challenged  Senator Harradine  to come clean; to give us the figures; to give is details of the account, the income through interest and the expenditure from this account. I have asked why he has not had the account audited; and how they got the money in the first place. But he would not tell us. This was a pretty well thought out scheme. It anticipated the setting up of a national scheme. They scored off it and got their own stooges in on it before the Commonwealth set up its own Trade Union Training Authority. 
I would say in conclusion that  Senator Harradine  has failed miserably to answer questions about his responsibilities as a public figure, as a senator, or to respond to charges that he has not been able to present an audited statement on this very important matter of public funds. I have asked that the Attorney-General and the Commonwealth Auditor-General look into the question of whether the funds were made available from the State Government of Tasmania for the national body, the Trade Union Training Authority; if not whether funds were made available from separate funds; and where the money has been expended. Until these questions are answered honourably and in a straightforward way I am not going to let up on the matter and I will continue to bring it up until  Senator Harradine  is prepared to speak the truth. 
That pursuant to Standing Order 364 the documents quoted from by  Senator O  'Byrne be ordered to be laid upon the table. 
This is nothing more or less than an attempt by  Senator Cavanagh  to prevent the motion being dealt with. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  I believe that  Senator Harradine  is in order.  Senator Harradine,  do you seek to have the documents tabled? 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-by leaveLast night, by motion of the Senate, I was required to table some documents from which I had quoted during a speech I made in the adjournment debate. Some of the documents were tabled and I handed others to an attendant, a  Mr Campion.  He in turn handed them to  Mr Egan  of  Hansard. Hansard  handled the documents and inadvertently addressed them back to  Senator Harradine.  One of the documents was a letter from the Tasmanian Minister for Education. The other documents were the notes from which I quoted during my speech. I apologise to the Senate for the unfortunate situation which has arisen. I now formally table the documents, together with the envelope addressed to  Senator Harradine. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. The Prime Minister during his policy speech in November 1977 said: 
We will co-operate with the States and financial institutions to set up an insurance scheme, protecting savings deposited with building societies. 
The Minister is no doubt aware of and would deplore the situation that developed last Friday in his home State where irresponsible and malicious rumours began a run on one of the largest building societies in New South Wales. I remind the Minister of the Prime Minister's election promise to set up an insurance scheme in conjunction with the States and financial institutions to protect savings. What progress has been made with this scheme since the meeting with the States early last year or can we just take this as another broken promise? 
Welcome back to the Senate,  Mr President. 
-In reply to  Senator Young's  statement relating to the great generosity of the oil companies in extending their oil exploration in Australia, I remind him that Australia is exporting considerable quantities of gas at a time when everyone is being asked to become aware of the high price of both oil and energy and to conserve them. I refer to the  Business and Society Review  of 19 November 1976 which listed 68 companies that disclosed information to the American Securities and Exchange Commission about questionable foreign payments they had made. I see listed Exxon, one of the major oil companies, which spent $59m in this way between 1963 and 1975, the period to which  Senator Young  referred. Gulf Oil spent $6,548,000 in questionable foreign payments. The previous Government was held in an unfavourable light by the oil companies operating around Australia. They purposely sabotaged this country inasmuch- as they held the licences to explore and exploit the oil areas both on-shore and off-shore and through a deliberate policy they took surveys and were able to obtain information which at the present time is standing them in good stead. But the decline in drilling that  Senator Young  referred to was part of a policy far beyond that which  Senator Young  was prepared to tell the Senate. One of these days perhaps we will see in its proper perspective the enormous power that the oil companies exercise in international politics, in the world economy, in the making and breaking of governments, in sustaining and bringing down shahs, principalities and the like. 
But that is not the reason why I have entered this debate. I wish to refer to a matter that I raised firstly in the Senate on 21 November when I asked the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  Senator Carrick,  whether he could give me some information relating to the Hospital Corporation of America and its plan to establish an $ 18m private hospital in Melbourne through a wholly-owned Australian subsidiary. I was struck by the fact that the company was claiming that its investment in this hospital would return a profit of between 17 per cent and 20 per cent. But the Minister could not give me the information that I sought. He did reply to me on 29 December by letter in which he said: 
My consideration of the matter has not yet reached a point where I am in a position to offer a firm view on this matter. 
Then on 21 March- yesterday- I again raised this matter and in reply  Senator Carrick  said: 
I have no first-hand knowledge on any of these matters. The best that I can do is to indicate that I will seek out the information from the relevant Minister and provide it . . . 
For the information of the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  Senator Carrick,  and any other honourable senator who may wish to learn about this matter, I place on record some of the background of the Hospital Corporation of America. The company was incorporated in Nashville, Tennessee, in 1960 as the Parkview Hospital Inc. In 1968 it adopted its present name- the Hospital Corporation of America known as HCA. It was founded by a  Mr Jack  Massey and two  Dr Frists- Dr Thomas  Frist senior and  Dr Thomas  Frist junior.  Dr Thomas  Frist junior is now the  President  and chief operating officer. The business brains behind this company which runs a multi-million dollar chain of hospitals for profit throughout the United States and throughout the world was a  Mr Massey  who built the Kentucky Fried Chicken Corporation empire into the world 's largest commercial prepared food organisation. 
Perhaps it is appropriate that I should in speaking on the first reading debate of the Poultry Industry Levy Amendment Bill tie it in with the fact that  Mr Massey  is the founder of the Kentucky Fried Chicken organisation. As one newspaper heading has said: 
What do selling fried chicken and running hospitals have in common? Jack Massey- the entrepeneur who has made each an industry. 
Previously I referred to the  Business and Society Review  of 19 November 1976 and, amongst other observations, it says: 
For several years there has been a steady barrage of news about improper, illegal, or questionable payments by major American corporations both at home and abroad. These payoffs have gone to public officials, private buyers, political parties and to at least one reigning prince. Yet information about these payoffs remains scattered and incomplete. 
There are many reasons why complete and reliable listings are not available. Although it is the SEC- 
That is, the Securities and Exchange Commission of the United States:  . . which has largely inspired the disclosures, much of the information is made available to the press far in advance of its reaching the SEC and the press is often inaccurate and inconsistent in reporting and interpreting the companies' data. In addition, some companies do not include dollar amounts or other specific data on their payments, nor are there any clear guidelines for determing what constitutes a questionable ' payment. 
The article goes on to say: 
Listed below are 135 companies which have disclosed, in sworn statements . . . that they have made questionable payments. 
Further on in the journal, there is a list of 53 companies which have made disclosures to the SEC indicating that they either have made foreign payments or are investigating to determine whether they did, but they have released no dollar amounts or other data. Amongst the list is the Hospital Corporation of America. 
As I mentioned, the business brains behind this Corporation is  Mr Massey.  He decided that HCA could dispense health care as profitably as the Kentucky Fried Chicken organisation. In Australia historically, except in the nursing home field, we have been accustomed to publiclyowned hospitals and church or doctor-controlled non-profit making hospitals. The question that I am raising is: Do we want operations to be performed by hospitals run as a business investment? Whatever type of medical and hospital benefit scheme the Government will come up with next, we will still have a large element of taxpayer support. No individual, except the really wealthy, can pay the real costs of today's health bill. The Government has been trying to persuade the States to rationalise their hospital networks. There have been reports of large scale reductions in staff and hospital fees are expected to rise from 1 July next. It is anticipated that there will be an increase of 25 per cent in charges and that the Commonwealth wants the States with the highest costs, namely New South Wales and Western Australia, to put their charges above the other States. The new rates in New South Wales could be as high as $60 a day for a shared ward and $90 a day for a private ward. Obviously health insurance premiums would go up and would be reflected in the cost of living index- the consumer price index. 
I pose this question: Does the Government look with complacency on the entry into Australia and into the hospital scene in this country of a multi-national outfit concerned with high profits? How much harder it will surely be to contain the escalating health bill. Apart from this aspect- that is, the Government's financial involvement- surely, there is a moral aspect. Do we want overseas owned and controlled firms to run our hospitals? The Hospital Corporation of America has set up a wholly owned subsidiary called Hospital Corporation of Australia. The  Australian Financial Review  of 15 August last year gave its article on the announcement of the HCA plans for a chain of hospitals in Australia the obvious heading 'Business moves in as Government quits hospital beds'. An article at page 3 of the  Sydney Morning Herald  of 9 March 1979 stated: 
Two private hospitals in Newcastle and one at Wentworthville will soon become part of a multi-million dollar chain run by an American-based company. 

 Mr Carl George, a director of Hospital Corporation of Australia, said yesterday that negotiations for the sale of the Woodlands and Lingard hospitals in Newcastle were in the hands of solicitors and the sale should be completed within six weeks. 

 A further reference appears in the  Age  of 21 November 1978. The article is headed 'US cash in big new hospital'. It states: 
The Australian subsidiary of the world's biggest private hospital organisation will operate an $ 1 8m private hospital to be built next year in Doncaster. 
The 208-bed St Luke's hospital and Medical Centre will be one of the biggest private hospitals in Australia. 
It is the first Victorian project of the Hospital Corporation of America's wholly-owned Australian subsidiary, which expects to have 10 hospitals with a total of 1,400 beds by 1981 . . . Fees at the hospital, which should open in July 1980, have been set to return a profit of 17 per cent on the investment rising to 2 1 per cent as it develops. 
The only condition imposed on HCA by the Foreign Investment Review Board was that it should eventually allow a 20 per cent Australian equity. This is to be put into operation by providing equity in each separate hospital through subsidiary companies rather than allowing any Australian equity in the Hospital Corporation of Australia. Does this mean that Australian doctors will be encouraged to invest in specific hospitals and thus further boost medical and hospital costs to the taxpayer as they seek to improve returns on their investments? Further, will those hospitals provide the traditional inhospital training and modern standards of medical care that we expect from our leading public hospitals? What study has the Federal-State coordinating committee for private hospital accommodation made of the impact of this company on the Australian hospital scene? Has it had placed before it an article- in fact, the cover story- of the August 1978 edition  of Modern Health Care"!  The article is headed 'Hospital Corp. eyes foreign markets; expects to double its size in 5 years'. It states: 
HCA's $45m hospital acquisition and development project in Australia is pan of the company's plan to develop foreign markets in case the US and state governments apply controls which severely limit the profitability of domestic hospital operations - 
That is in the United States. I made it clear in my question yesterday that the head of HCA said that if these controls were applied he would go down the line and invest overseas. This is the story that is unfolding in Australia. In the article to which I have referred the  president  of HCA,  Dr Thomas  Frist Jnr is quoted as saying: 
Say if the goverment limits our return to less than our current 1 5 per cent to 16 per cent. One of the reasons we 're setting ourselves up in contract management area and international market is that if our return is decreased on our company-owned base, we could offset these decreasing profit margins with other areas of support. 
As I quoted in my question yesterday, he also said: 
If down the road, a moratorium were put on building hospitals in this country - 
That is the United States- we could shift the commitment of our money, cash flow and reinvestment from the United States to other areas. If we were not already in an international position, it might take us three to four years to develop that market. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 

 General Business taking precedence of Government Business after 8 p.m. 

When this debate was adjourned last Thursday I had made some comments relating to the entry into Australia of investor owned multinational hospital companies. I have asked two questions of the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Carrick).  Although the first question was asked on 2 1 November last year I am still waiting for the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  to indicate the Government's reaction. When the Minister,  Mr Hunt,  wrote to me on 29 December last he said: 
My consideration of the matter has not yet reached a point where I am in a position to offer a firm view on this matter. 
That is why I am raising this issue. It is about time the Government had a policy- one consistent with its assertions that the escalating cost of health in Australia must be contained. 
Whatever controls the State governments may have in this area, it is the Commonwealth Government that foots most of the bills through the medical and hospital benefits funds. No individual, except the really wealthy, can afford to pay the real costs of present day medical technology. How can the Government sit back without a policy when the Hospital Corporation of America, known as HCA, through its wholly owned Australian subsidiary, Hospital Corporation of Australia, already controls four hospitals in three States and is in the process of buying three more in New South Wales. There now seems to be another American investor owned company anxious to make profits out of the hospital business in Australia. American Medical International (Australia) Pty Ltd, known as AMI, is seeking to take over the proposed teaching hospital for Monash University in Melbourne. As the Victorian Government has promised in successive State elections that it would provide a public hospital for Monash University, this action amounts to a sell-out. It is being kept quiet until after the State election is held on 5 May next. This is a matter that needs a lot more airing. I am sure that the State Government will have to answer many questions, because this will be an issue in the Victorian election. 
My attention was drawn last year to the HCA move into Australia and its claim that fees would be set so as to provide for a 17 per cent return on investment later rising to 2 1 per cent. This was in relation to the $ 1 8m St Luke 's private hospital to be built at Doncaster in Melbourne and operated by HCA. My question of last November was specifically directed to the Government's attitude to this statement of intent. On reading the letter written by the Minister for Health I got the feeling that the Minister was not too happy about the situation. But he has kept very quiet about it ever since. I now ask, and I hope that the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle),  who is in the chamber, will convey what I have to say to the Minister for Health: Does the Government look with complacency at the entry into Australian hospitals of multinational outfits concerned with high profits? Apart from the financial aspect, surely there is a moral aspect. Do we want overseas owned and controlled firms to run our hospitals? Do we want the expensive and grossly inequitable American system of health care? 
I also ask: What study has the Federal-State Co-ordinating Committee for Private Hospital Accommodation made of the impact of this company on the Australian hospital scene? Does the Department of Health have economists capable of providing the Government with adequate cost-benefit studies? I further ask whether the Minister had drawn to his attention an article in the journal  Modem Health Care  for August 1 978 in which the following is stated: 
HCAs S45m hospital acquisition and development project in Australia is pan of the company's plan to develop foreign markets in case the United States and State governments apply controls which severely limit the profitability of domestic hospital operations. 
This indicates that the United States Government is taking very close notice and cognisance of the expansion of these profiteering hospitals and there is a possibility that it will do something to control them. 
This is the same firm as is seeking to expand in Australia because it foresees increasing government regulations in its home base in the United States. What do we know about this organisation? As I mentioned before, its business success can be traced to the same source as promotes Kentucky Fried Chicken, namely,  Mr Jack  Massey. In fact, in one article the organisation has been called 'Southern Fried Hospitals'. HCA is based in Nashville, Tennessee, and was incorporated there in 1960 as the Parkview Hospital Inc. In 1968 it adopted its present name and set out on the tremendous growth which has made it the largest private hospital organisation in the world. The business brains behind all this was  Mr Jack  Massey, who had built Kentucky Fried Chicken Corporation into the world's largest commercial marketer of prepared food.  His  partners in founding HCA were  Dr Thomas  Frist Snr and a  Dr Thomas  Frist Jnr. 
It means that if they have food to spare from Kentucky Fried they can sell it through their hospital chain. It is a fast food and fast body business. It is very cynical.  Dr Thomas  Frist Jnr is now  president  and chief operating officer of this company. He was remarkably frank in an interview quoted in the  Modern Health Care  article to which I referred earlier. He is quoted as saying: 
Say if the Government limits our return to less than our current 15 per cent to 16 per cent. One of the reasons we're setting ourselves up in the contract management area and international market is that if our return is decreased on our company-owned base, we could offset these decreasing profit margins with other areas of support. 
As I quoted in my second question on this matter on 2 1 March last,  Dr Frist  Jnr also said: 
If down the road a moratorium were put on building hospitals in this country - meaning the United States- we could shift the commitment of our money, cash flow and reinvestment from the United States to other areas. If we were not already in an international position, it might take us three to four years to develop that market. 
Is that how the Government would like to see the hospitals of Australia run- as a convenient market for a multinational company anxious to avoid government controls in its home country? Is the Government serious in its attempt to persuade the States to rationalise their hospital networks or is health care to be a lucrative foreign investment? We should remember that it is not just the cost of a hospital bed that provides high profits for this new breed of multinational. It has other companies which provide hospital equipment and high cost medical technology. We can imagine the gamut of expensive tests that patients will receive in these hospitals, mostly at the Australian taxpayers ' expense. Do we want surgical operations to be performed in hospitals which are also run as a business investment? How many unnecessary operations would this lead to? In Australia historically, except for nursing homes, we have been accustomed to publicly owned hospitals and church or doctor controlled nonprofit making hospitals. Has the Government thought through what will be the public's reaction to this new development, that is, once there is more publicity about it in the Press. 
The  Australian Financial Review  provided a frank heading to its article about HCA's plans for a chain of hospitals in Australia. It said: Business moves in as government quits hospital beds'. The Government should realise that this will be the way the Australian electors also will see the issue. No government in Australia can retreat as this one is trying to do from the provision of comprehensive health care facilities. The only condition imposed on HCA by the Foreign Investment Review Board is that it eventually will allow 20 per cent Austrlaian equity. This is to be put into effect by providing equity in each separate hospital through subsidiary companies rather than allowing any Australian equity in the Hospital Corporation of America. Surely doctor investors, as has been suggested is most likely, will further boost medical and hospital costs to the taxpayer. The Government knows that there is a coming over-supply of doctors, and this development adds a further complication. What is the Government's attitude to  Dr Frist's  threat of more profits and reinvestment in the classical way of multinationals ever seeking an open field with minimum government regulation? This amounts to virtual blackmail of governments in an area of basic human right- access to health care. 
If this company in its own country would say, Right, we will pack up', how much more easily would it say it to us? In 30 cities in the United 
States an HCA hospital provides the only hospital care. I am sure that every Australian will find it shocking that in so many cities hospital care has been monopolised by this one company. This firm has made $8m in profits from its management of a 1 50-bed hospital in Panama City and a 250-bed hospital in Saudi Arabia. The  Modern Health Care  article says that this $8m profit of these two hospitals is to be transferred to Australia as part of the company's initial investment. Where will this company decide to transfer its Australian profits- to Nashville, Tennessee, or to some new international investment? 
So far I have referred only to the St Luke's project in Melbourne. HCA has already bought the luxury Baulkham Hills hospital in Sydney. Interestingly it was able immediately to renegotiate the mortgage at more favourable rates of interest. Such is the financial clout of this multinational chain. It has bought the Dudley Hospital at Orange in New South Wales and the Belmont Psychiatric Hospital in Brisbane. It has a controlling interest in the Linacre Hospital in Melbourne and is in the process of buying two hospitals in Newcastle and one at Wentworthville in Sydney. It expects to have 10 hospitals here by 1 98 1 . Because of its rapid expansion outside the United States into foreign markets it expects to double its size in five years. 
The other multinational and investor-owned hospital company which sees Australia as a growth area is AMI- American Medical International. The journal  Barron's  on 26 December 1977 referred to this company's record profits and said that it was shaping up for another boom year in 1 978. Evidently over half of its revenue in the United States came from Medicare Medicaid. Its pre-tax profit margins were about 8 per cent of revenues for United States hospitals, 1 6 per cent for foreign hospitals and 1 3 per cent for established health care services. This latter revenue, that is, from health care services, has risen from under $1.4m in 1971 to more than $22m in 1976-77. This is where enormous rip-offs can be made. The Government knows the problems it has had with pathology business in Australia, and I use the word 'business' advisedly. This has been the growth area in medical practice here and has been more akin to the assembly line fast food business. 
American Medical International is in this business too. It provides whole packages of services from management, laboratory services and technical consulting to highly sophisticated and expensive equipment such as computerised axial tomography scanners. The Government would be aware that the introduction of such high cost medical technology as these scanners needs to be co-ordinated in a rational way so that there is not an over-supply and, need I suggest, an over-use in some cities while in other parts of the country there is a lack of such facilities. I ask the Minister to look carefully at this question. I have raised it previously and I raise it again because I am especially concerned that the teaching hospital required for the medical facility at Monash University may be run by AMI. This would be unprecedented in Australia. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Health whether the Government is aware that one of the American investor owned chains of private hospitals seeking to take the place of public hospitals in Australia is in a list of 53 companies which made disclosures to the United States Securities and Exchange Commission indicating that they had either made foreign pay-offs or were investigating to determine whether they had made foreign pay-offs. Have the Government's advisers made an adequate study of this matter? If so, does the Government welcome as desirable foreign investors both American companies seeking to enter the public hospital field in Australia? Finally, is there any reason for the reluctance of the Minister for Health to answer the questions I have previously asked relating to these foreign owned companies taking over Australian hospitals? 
At Question Time, in first reading debates and by way of questions on notice, I have tried, to no avail, to elicit some information from the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  relating to the intrusion of the largest hospital corporation in the United States of America, the Hospital Corporation of America, into the acquisition of a chain of hospitals. Those requests have been met with such deafening silence from the Minister that I raise the matter again. The silence and the secrecy surrounding this matter are obviously a cover-up of the Government's retreat from providing a comprehensive health care facility ibr the people of Australia. What is actually happening is that the Government is narrowing the area of publicly funded health care. The Government has no mandate to do that. I want to know why it is doing that and I want to know the details surrounding that action. 
The area in which there is a narrowing is in the provision of services, in the reduction of Medibank services, in the provision of hospital and health centres and in the provision of Capital Works funds available to the hospitals. The withdrawal of those funds leaves the field wide open for opportunist and profit-seeking transnationals to exploit the provision of health care services in Australia. Already a commitment has been entered into in Australia for a program which embraces the purchase of numerous existing private hospitals. Therefore, tonight I raise again the matter of the private hospital multinationals which seem to be looking at Australia as a luctrative investment area. 
The Minister for Health has been very slow to answer my questions. Yesterday my colleague in another place, the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass),  asked the Minister for Health a question. The Minister took refuge by placing the bulk of the question on notice.  T  might add that it was last November when I first raised this matter with the Minister. Even the Press is making humourous reference to the supercilious cynicism of the Minister's answer. The Sunday Press has drawn attention to the stupidity of the answers which are being given by the Minister. It makes me wonder just how well he is being briefed by his departmental advisers, or what he is trying to cover up. Have those advisers undertaken adequate cost-benefit studies? Has the Minister received a full briefing on each of the firms which are seeking to establish themselves here? I want to know why there is a silence. Are the lobbyists getting to the Minister? 
I am referring to copious notes, which I am entitled to do.  Senator Baume  has done that and his colleagues frequently do so. 

 Government senators interjecting- 


 - Mr President, I ask for relative silence for a few moments, please, while I give this information to the Senate. I am asking for an answer on this matter from the Minister. Has the Minister read an article in the  Wall Street Journal  of 27 October 1978, headed Hospital Corp. of America settles suit by S.E.C. over payments in Saudi contract'? That article reveals that the HCA paid nearly $4.3m to a Liechtenstein entity called ASSEM, established between 1973 and 1977. The payments ostensibly were for 'advisory, consultancy and liaison services' in connection with HCA's contract to manage the King Faisal Specialist Hospital in Saudi Arabia. In fact, this Liechtenstein outfit, ASSEM, had no employees or operations and thus no capacity to perform any such services for HCA. What really happened was that ASSEM was a conduit for payoffs to some people in Saudi Arabia. HCA had $4.3m to spread around. If this operation was all above board why did the company have to spread this benefice in Saudi Arabia? 
The Securities and Exchange Commission, in its law suit against HCA, said that HCA internal memoranda showed that the Hospital Corporation of America was aware that these payments were really payoffs to influential Saudi Arabians. But HCA did not disclose this information to its shareholders or to Government investigators. Has the Minister for Health asked HCA about these investigations? HCA has tried to say that it thought the $4.3m in payments was simply commission on the negotiation of the contract. I  asked last week in the Senate whether the Government was aware that HCA was in a list of companies which had disclosed to the SEC that they might have made foreign payoffs. 
The  Wall Street Journal  article has provided me with further information while I am still waiting for my answers from the Minister. I might add that $8m of the HCA investment in Australia is coming allegedly from profits made in Saudi Arabia and in Panama. My reference for this is the cover story on HCA in the August 1978 issue of  Modern Health Care.  I point out to the Minister that the SEC, in discussing the fees- or could we say the bribe- that HCA paid to ASSEM contended that the company did not absorb the cost of the fees but instead marked up the price for the services to the hospitals under its management contract. That is, the SEC charged HCA with price mark-ups in Saudi Arabia. This Saudi Arabian hospital contract was quite lucrative and the Securities and Exchange Commission said that HCA received approximately $27.6m in revenue between 1973 and 1977 for this hospital operation. This, after all, is the biggest investor-owned private hospital organisation in the world. It is coming into Australia unobtrusively and buying up a chain of hospitals here. 
My first question on this matter was on 21 November last year when I sought information from the Minister. It is now over four months since I asked the Minister for an explanation of this new development in health care in Australia. I am asking again why the Minister will not answer the questions that I have raised. What has he to hide? Why can he not supply the Senate, the Parliament and the people of Australia with reasons for his reticence in answering these questions when the track form of this organisation in other parts of the world is such that it is using methods not tolerable in this country to intrude into other countries outside the United States of America? I demand an answer from the Minister. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to the so-called Muldergate scandal in South Africa and to an article appearing in today's  Australian  from the World Cable Service in London which states: 
The South African Government has secretly spent about $500,000 to discredit or destroy the World Council of Churches. 
The article continues: 
The money was spent on an organisation called the Christian League of Southern Africa which for years has conducted a campaign against the World Council of Churches. 
I ask the Minister: As the Christian League of Southern Africa, which was set up to conduct this campaign, plans to open offices in the United States and Britain, has our Government any knowledge of plans to extend this campaign or to open an office in Australia? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources. By way of preface, I draw the Minister's attention to the fact that there is considerable delay in the supply of the conversion kits necessary to convert Canberra cars and taxis from the use of petrol to the use of liquefied petroleum gas. I also draw the Minister's attention to the fact that LPG is being retailed in Canberra at 10c per litre as against 26c per litre for petrol and there is very little discernible difference in the performance of vehicles, especially taxis. I ask the Minister: Is the Government genuine in its stated policy of conservation of hydro-carbon energy resources, when half of the energy of Bass Strait in the form of LPG is being exported to Japan? Will the Minister have an inquiry made into the reasons for the exorbitantly high cost of conversion to LPG usage? Will the Minister have an inquiry made also into the reluctance of the oil companies to press for more widespread use of LPG and thus conserve our petrol reserves? 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I refer to last month's truckies protest blockade of our major highways. Have calculations been made of the extent to which the Federal Government's 40 per cent investment allowance contributed to the oversupply of heavy transport units to the road transport industry by financial institutions? Was any use made of the statistics available after the first year of operation of the 40 per cent investment allowance to assess its effect on the industry, particularly motor vehicle registration figures and the numbers of repossessions by financial organisations? Finally, as the blockade highlighted the whole issue of the investment allowance and the easy accessibility to huge transporter units through financial institutions in an industry that was oversupplied, will the Government refer this matter to the Campbell committee of inquiry into financial institutions that is currently meeting? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. I remind her of the Government's attempt to control hospital costs. Is she aware that part of the success of the multinational private hospital companies can be attributed to their working the medical benefit system to their best advantage or, put another way, at greater cost to the health funds and, ultimately, to the Government and the taxpayer? I ask the Minister whether she is aware that a senior vice-president of the Hospital Corporation of America has stated: 
Just the way the big companies make money in knowing how to fill out their tax forms, its a real art in hospitals knowing how to get the maximum amount of dollars by cost accounting for reimbursement. 
Does this indicate a potential increase in medical benefit claims in Australia as a result of the entry of these big firms into Australian hospital management? 

 - Mr President, I direct a question to you relating to a statement you made in the Senate last Thursday concerning a matter which had been raised by  Senator Cavanagh.  In your statement you said: 
should I receive any Further information, I shall, of course, immediately acquaint the Senate. 
As co-chairman of the Joint House Committee,  Mr President,  will you obtain the following information: During the last few weeks, was a barbecue set from the Senate courtyard missing for several days? Was the set eventually found in the Senate garden? Did the Acting  Speaker  call a member of the House of Representatives into his office for discussions on the removal and use of the set? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I refer to the subject matter raised in last night's Australian Broadcasting Commission program  Nationwide,  which I have been raising in the Senate since last year, namely the involvement of the Hospital Corporation of America and similar companies in the Australian private hospital industry. The Minister for Health wrote to me on 25 May stating that he still could not answer my questions and was waiting for Treasury's comments. I remind the Leader that the questions I raised included reference to specifically Health Department responsibilities such as the way the company maximises profits through sophisticated filling in of medical benefits claims. I had quoted a company official's boast about that. As the Government is about to inquire into the entire hospital system in Australia, will the Leader of the Government suggest to the Prime Minister that the terms of reference of the inquiry be widened to cover the impact of these investor owned profit-making hospital companies on the provision of Australian health services in both Commonwealth and State areas? 
-This Bill, which seeks to guarantee borrowings by Qantas Airways Ltd to purchase two Boeing 747 aircraft, has met with the approval of those honourable senators who have preceded me in this debate. Like other honourable senators I feel proud that Australia has an airline as competent and of such a high standard as Qantas. This airline is our flag carrier; it is an international symbol of Australia. I was perhaps disappointed to hear the criticism that was directed by  Senator Rae  to the activities of the real estate section of Qantas. I would say that Qantas has shown great foresight and initiative in this very competitive business world to have one of the fine buildings in the choicest part of Sydney as a symbol and an indication of its solidity and its capacity to anticipate the future. I believe that Qantas has shown all the desirable business acumen that is necessary to run a very successful international airline. Qantas should be praised for its venture into real estate. To me its success in this field is on a par with the great standard it has achieved in the airline part of its operation. 
I will be very brief in what I want to say. I believe that Qantas deserves the commendation of the Parliament and of the people of Australia for having chosen the Boeing 747 aircraft as the main type of aircraft in its fleet. Qantas has always shown a little bit of extra something not shown by others in terms of foresight, in anticipating the needs of the future and in the rapid growth and changing patterns of aviation. Qantas has a very proud record that almost all Australians share. On the very few ocasions that I have travelled overseas it has always been a great joy to see our flagship and the symbol that it carries. Everything about Qantas has style. 
Some of the passengers have. But this quality is invaluable in these days of international relations with so many competing airlines. Qantas has always been to the fore in this respect. When one goes to a foreign airfield it is the exception rather than the rule if one does not see the symbol of Qantas. I want to pay a tribute to members of the Amalgamated Metal Workers and Shipwrights Union who carry out the maintenance on Qantas aircraft and help this company maintain the highest safety standard of any airline in the world. The care, competence and dedication of these men who work around the clock to keep these aircraft flying is perhaps often passed unnoticed. But I want to put on the record that many of us are conscious of the standards that are achieved by these metalworkers. It does not matter how good the administration is or how good the aircraft originally was, if those standards of workmanship are not maintained the quality of the airline will deteriorate. 
I would like to make a minor criticism which follows a matter that was raised by  Senator Gareth  Evans in the Senate last Monday. The honourable senator directed a question to the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  who represents the Minister for Industrial Relations which is recorded on page 2519 of  Hansard.  He referred to the summary dismissal on the previous Thursday of two airline traffic clerks in Melbourne-  Mr Michael  Atkinson of TransAustralia Airlines and  Mrs Carol  Stamp of Ansett Airlines of Australia- both of whom had been involved in organising a new union, the Airline Employees Association.  Senator Evans  pointed out that the dismissals had already resulted in a degree of industrial disputation around Australia. I might interpose and point out that this matter within the foreseeable future will involve Qantas. I would like to sound a word of warning that Qantas may well heed. This new 
Association will become the main body with which Qantas will need to negotiate on the industrial level in the future whether it likes it or not. Discriminating against these people will be to the great disadvantage of Qantas. I also point out that Qantas has been pressured by Ansett which seems to have some sort of bias against this Association in favour of the Federated Clerks Union of Australia which over a period of time has incorporated airline employees. The trend today is towards industrial associations. Section 5 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act lays it down that it is an offence to disadvantage anyone seeking registration. Pressure is being placed on the Airline Employees Association in respect of registration. Dismissals are taking place today and possibly more will take place in the future. 1 hope that the good record of Qantas will not be marred by the pressure that is being applied to it by another airline to dismiss employees who become members of the Association. 
1 understand that the Association is an industy union. Also, I understand that the Federal Clerks Union, which has covered these employees in the past, has not been able to service its airline section as thoroughly as the airline employees would wish it to do. This new Association feels that it can do a better on-the-site job than the other union has been able to do. 

 Senator Evans went on to say that the dismissals appeared to be a blatant and quite intolerable instance of employer intimidation of legitimate trade union activity. Then he asked the Minister whether he would set in train-  . . an investigation to determine whether the dismissals contravene the industrial intimidation provisions of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act introduced in 1977, or does the Government regard its only obligation in industrial relations as being to protect employers? 
The Minister said that he would refer the question to the Minister for Industrial Relations. 
Yesterday,  Senator Chipp  raised the matter and said, inter alia, that he understood that an airways employees association had been formed in the airline industry, that at the moment it was small, consisting of 1 ,500 members, and had not applied for or been granted registration. Perhaps I could note that it has applied for registration.  Senator Chipp  said he had received information that in the previous two days up to 12 members, who were airline clerical staff, had been sacked by Trans-Australia Airlines and Ansett Airlines of Australia without their being given any reason.  Senator Chipp  added that the only common denominator in the sackings appeared to be that the persons sacked belonged to a new trade union. I draw attention to these matters because I am advised that this disputation will spread very quickly to Qantas, to which I understand pressure is being applied. The good industrial relations record of Qantas, the high standards that it has maintained and the great financial and operational success that it has achieved deserve the highest commendation of the Senate, of the Parliament and of the people of Australia. 
I am certain that this legislation will be approved unanimously by the Parliament. I wish Qantas continuing success. From the very top level of its administration to the most humble employee, Qantas has shown what can be done with unity of purpose where profit is not the only objective, where doing a good job for the community and proving that Australia can achieve standards the equal of any country in the world are also important. I wish the Bill a speedy passage. 
Amongst the multitude of deceptions which the Government perpetrated during the election campaigns of 1975 and 1977 was the matter of jobs for the boys. The Government's criticism of this practice was very trenchant. I should like to ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate how many times the Federal Director of the Liberal Party has been engaged as a consultant to the Government or to  Mr Fraser  personally? Has he taken leave without pay from the Liberal Party on each of these occasions, if any? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Among the plethora of piecrust promises that were made in 1975 and 1977 was the promise that the Government was a tax reduction Government. How does that promise measure up to performance, when the present Budget Papers show that this Government, as has already been pointed out by  Senator Wriedt,  has increased taxation revenue by $50,000m since coming to office? Is the Government now saying that it cannot function at its reduced level of capacity, without this staggering tax increase? 
-This recommendation of the Committee, in my opinion, is the essence of the new approach of the Senate towards the committee system. It is a gentle rebuke to the Public Service and authorities appearing before the committees to improve their performance in relation to supplying detailed and adequate information in reply to questions by senators. If this recommendation or rebuke is not taken in its proper perspective some other measures will have to be found. The report is not in strong language; it is in very gentle language to remind the Public Service that reports coming before the Standing Orders Committee from some Estimates committees should contain adequate information. It is my view that we should be able to get the information that is sought from the various departmental heads during the Estimates committee hearings. In saying that, I mean that the departmental heads should have the final responsibility for submitting this information. After all, in the bureauracy, the departmental head is next to the Minister in degree of responsibility. He is responsible for what goes on in his department and he is answerable to his Minister. As we all know, the Minister is unable to take all the details with him during the committee stage and he actually delegates his authority to the departmental head who is in a position to supply the information required. 
I think we have to attach a lot of importance to this recommendation if the Estimates committee system is to achieve the objectives for which it was created. Although we have not come out from the Committee blasting any particular person, I do not think it should be taken lightly when the Committee is reminding the bureaucracy that it must be prepared to answer the questions that are posed to it in relation to departmental matters during the inquiry of the Estimates committee. Therefore, I should like to see this section of the report adopted. Then if there is not an improvement, and if" the Standing Orders Committee continues in the future to receive similar reports from Estimates committees, we will have to take some other action to make certain that the information that is sought by senators in the Estimates committees is tendered and is satisfactory. 
For the time being I believe that in the tradition of the Standing Orders Committee we have not sought especially to isolate any particular department. What we are doing is issuing a general warning that we are not completely satisfied with the level of information received or the degree of responsibility being maintained by a department, and that we would like to see an improvement in the future. I am going to support the recommendation as it is, being a member of the Committee. 
My question, which is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate, follows the question asked by  Senator Ryan  relating to  Mr Lyenko  Urbanchich. It is perhaps superfluous for me to reiterate the general attitude of Australians towards those who were collaborators, traitors and war criminals and who have been pursued and brought to justice. However, this search must continue for the sake of humanity. Will the Minister, in conjunction with his colleague,  Senator Durack,  initiate a full national inquiry into the activities during and after the war of  Mr Lyenko  Urbanchich and his colleagues of the Croatian fraternity, including the arrogant and contumelious secretary, Sidic, of the so-called Croatian Embassy in Canberra, who is flouting the expressed intention of the court, the Government and the Parliament? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health; upon notice, on 7 June 1979: 
1 ) Has a Federal-State Committee been established to approve private hospital accommodation; if so, who are the members of this Committee. 
Does the Federal Government have the power to refuse to accredit new private hospital beds for the $16 per day bed subsidy. 
-by leave- On Tuesday, 28 August, I received from the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt),  through the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle),  a reply to Question on Notice No. 1 724. On the same day I received a communication from the Minister for Social Security relating to a series of questions which were asked on 21 March 1979, 29 March 1979, 4 April 1979 and 10 May 1979. 1 seek the leave of the Senate to have those answers to the questions incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 
HOSPITAL CORPORATION OF AMERICA 
The Minister for Health has provided the following information: 
It is the stated policy of the Government to welcome the investment of foreign capital into Australia. I am aware that the Hospital Corporation of America (H.C.A.) as well as a number of other American companies are investing in the private hospital industry in this country. 
It is the responsibility of the Foreign Investment Review Board (F.I.R.B.) of the Department of the Treasury to examine proposals for investment by overseas companies, under the Government's foreign investment policy. 
Certain foreign investments in private hospitals in Australia have been approved by the Government after consultation with State and Commonwealth health authorities on the basis of specific proposals involving the contribution of financial, managerial and technical skills in the operation of a number of private hospitals. These approvals were subject to conditions requiring the operation and development of the hospitals to be subject to consultation with and, as necessary, approval from State and Commonwealth health authorities. The approvals were also subject to requirements for the introduction of substantial Australian equity participation and periodic consultation with the F.I.R.B. 
I would like to clarify the role of the State health authorities in the granting of approvals for private hospitals. The primary role is played by the States; it is they who actually licence an institution to operate as a private hospital. My understanding of the procedure followed by the FIRB in its consideration of foreign investment proposals in the Australian private hospital industry is that the views of the relevant State authorities are invariably sought, recorded, and given weight in reaching decisions. 
Where my Department has been involved in commenting on such investment proposals, it has been noted that in no case has the relevant State authority opposed the investment proposal. In fact, in most cases, prior approval had already been granted by the State for the proposed private hospital before consideration by the FIRB. I recollect in the case of investment proposals in South Australia, the South Australian Government had not only approved the application by a foreign corporation, but had offered to guarantee a large loan for the company and a South Australian Government body was involved in leasing land to the investors on which to build the institution. Similarly, a proposal by a foreign corporation to develop a hospital at Wollongong, New South Wales, was speedily agreed to by the New South Wales Government, which has since been pressuring the investors to commence construction work as soon as possible. 
The point of this is that the Commonwealth does not have legal authority to apply growth control in the private hospitals area in the States. We can and have, of course, put our views, and we can and in fact have requested the States to cooperate in joint consideration of applications for additional private hospital accommodation. But it is the State Governments that bear final responsibility for the operations of private hospitals within their borders. 
My Department has brought to the notice of the FIRB aspects connected with the entry of American firms into the Australian private hospital sector which must be kept in mind, and the need for consideration of each proposal on its own individual merits. The total hospital sector is in many areas already over supplied with beds, and additions to existing hospital bed supply could exert upward pressure on the overall costs of providing health care in Australia. This is particularly relevant at a time when the Government has made its intentions known for an inquiry to be conducted into the efficiency and administration of hospitals in Australia. 
My Department will continue to consult with the FIRB on each proposal by foreign investors to participate in the private hospital industry. While the FIRB and the States have the major involvement, my Department will continue to exert influence so that, as far as possible, the decisions taken will avoid increasing hospital bed numbers in areas where existing facilities are clearly adequate. 
On the honourable senator's query concerning a possible increase in medical benefits claims, there is naturally a potential for increase in claims associated with services by doctors to patients of private hospitals, if the number of private hospital beds increase. But it will depend on where these patients come from and how they would have otherwise received their medical services. For the reasons outlined below, there does not seem to be any substantial likelihood of an increase in the magnitude of medical benefits claims. 
If the patients were persons who would have been private patients in recognised hospitals and treated by private doctors of their own choice, the change is only a change in the place where they receive their medical services- i.e. no increase in medical benefits claims would otherwise be involved. It would only be in respect of persons whose hospital treatment would have otherwise been in the standard ward of a recognised hospital with free medical treatment (not involving medical benefits claims), or new patients, that there is any prospect of an increase of any magnitude in the number of medical benefits claims. 
Attracting patients who would otherwise obtain free medical treatment in recognised hospitals, seems somewhat unlikely. 
As to the possibility that more medical services than are now necessary may be initiated, the Government has taken a number of active measures to discourage provision of unnecessary medical services. With the co-operation of the Australian Medical Association, medical practitioners who fail to respond to counselling by Departmental and medical officers, are referred to Medical Services Committees of Inquiry for report and recommendation to me as to whether any unnecessary medical services are performed. Where I receive a report indicating unnecessary medical services, I am enabled to determine that the medical benefits involved be recovered. Concerning the question of possible increases in hospital fees, the State Governments have agreed to an increase in public hospital inpatient charges from 1 September 1 979 from $40 a day to $50 a day for a shared room and from $60 a day to $75 a day for a private room. With my statement of 24 May I tabled a "Report on Rationalisation of Hospitals Facilities and Services and on proposed new charges" prepared by Commonwealth officials. This discussion paper canvassed the matter of differential charges. The Government had made no commitment to the recommendations in the Report. 
As I have stated earlier, the Government has, for some time, been concerned about rapidly escalating costs in the hospitals area and has announced its intention to establish an inquiry into hospital efficiency and administration. The intended terms of reference cover the rationalisation of hospital facilities of all types, including private hospitals. 
With reference to the honourable senator's comments concerning the American Securities and Exchange Commission and its law suit against the HCA, my Department has seen the article in the Wall Street Journal of 27 October 1978, but I am not in a position to comment on the allegations made in that article. 
Does the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications not agree that it is a strange situation when an Australian made television series, which has either been sold or is in the process of being sold to over 20 countries, is ignored by television companies in Australia? I refer to the film, a five part series, entitled 'The Human Face of China', which has been called the most comprehensive human interest film ever attempted inside China. Would the Minister institute an inquiry and supply me with an answer stating why the Australian Broadcasting Commission in particular and the commercial television stations in general have boycotted this film which has received world acclaim? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 7 June 1979: 
1 ) Who is the Director of Development for American Medical International in Australia. 
Was he formerly a public servant. 
In which overseas posts did he serve. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate in his capacity as Minister representing the Minister for Defence. Has the Minister any information to give the Senate relating to the raid by Zimbabwe-Rhodesian airmen and soldiers into Mozambique, reported in the  Age  of 10 September 1979, which included two Australians? They were killed in the raid. Can the Minister inform the Senate whether those soldiers were recruited in Australia, whether they were Australian citizens and, if so, whether they were there with the knowledge of the Australian Government? In times of delicate negotiations concerning the United Kingdom, Australia and representatives of Mozambique, what instructions, if any, have been issued indicating that the Australian Government dissociates itself from Australians who choose to accept mercenary assignments? 
-The Bill before the Senate relates to an agreement between the Commonwealth and Tasmania in connection with the development of Tasmanian native forests. Agreement has been reached to devise a program which will assist in ensuring the supply of raw materials for future forest products and contribute to long term development in Tasmania. It is stated in the second reading speech of the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  that the implementation of this program will assist in alleviating the current employment situation in that State. The provision of $136,000 a year for five years will make an infinitesimal contribution towards relieving unemployment in the State of Tasmania. With a little mental arithmetic, it can be proved that 30 married people on the dole would be paid the equivalent of this grant by the Commonwealth Government. The problem confronting the forestry industry in Tasmania in relation to the amount provided by this legislaton highlights the attitude of the Government to two important matters in Tasmania, the future of our forests and the unemployment problem. 
One of the main things, as I see the situation in Tasmania, is the need for research into the whole matter of eucalypt forestry. At the beginning of the century the harvesting of our natural forest was indiscriminate. The sawmillers went through the forests and chose and took out the most suitable logs. They actually scavanged the forests for the best material and left the lesser quality timber. The Forestry Commission in Tasmania, and previously the forestry department, has tried to come to grips with this very great problem of continuity in the supply of this most valuable asset. The Tasmanian eucalypt is claimed to be one of the finest timbers in the world. I refer to the eucalyptus regnans, the stringy bark and the honey coloured hardwood that is described as Tasmanian oak and which is sought after and has a great market in most places throughout the Western world. Yet it has been predicted that the supplies could be limited to a period of less than 20 or 30 years in the future. The report of the Inquiry into the Structure of Industry and the Employment Situation in Tasmania headed by  Sir Bede  Callaghan is very interesting. It draws attention to one of the recommendations received from the Tasmanian Timber Association. The recommendation stated: 
That the Commonwealth should make available to the State sufficient funds to permit the Forestry Commission to develop an adequate program of hardwood regeneration. It was claimed that softwood planting had been well catered for and that the future of the Tasmanian timber industry rests with hardwood. 
Another recommendation was: 
That the Division of Forest Products of CSIRO be reestablished in Tasmania. 
This is one of the matters that, I believe, should be the subject of this legislation. The Division of Forest Products should undertake an overall survey of the forestry situation in Tasmania. The report draws attention to the need for further research into Australian forestry generally. It is of great and urgent importance that this type of research be carried out in the Tasmanian forests. The problem in Tasmania is different from that on the mainland. I refer to the matter of regeneration. In warmer States a good natural regeneration occurs but Tasmania, although it grows splendid timber under natural conditions, has a colder climate and therefore there is a greater risk that land can drop out of production unless seeding is done after burning off. 
The matter of seeding must receive much more emphasis. Traditionally foresters have relied on the haphazard method of natural regeneration. The different climatic conditions of Tasmania are adverse to the efficient regeneration of our particular eucalypts. Mention is made in the provisions of this legislation of the thinning of blackwood forests. There is no doubt that forests in the very wet areas of Tasmania get very luscious regrowth of blackwood and wattle, but there is a greater need, in my view, for specialisation with the eucalypt. Despite the fact that blackwood is a beautiful timber and much sought after- finance should be diverted to the regeneration and the scientific husbanding of our blackwood forestsmore emphasis must be given in this legislation towards the great problem that has never been really tackled in Tasmania. I refer to the special climatic conditions and the relative difficulty of regeneration without the assistance of planned seeding. 
We have a further problem in Tasmania. Approximately half the forest area of Tasmania is Crown land and the other half is private property. The growing of eucalypts is such a long range plan that people with private property are loath to make the necessary investment and to undertake the long range planning that is necessary to successfully regenerate eucalypts. No mention is made in this legislation about making funds available for private land reafforestation. Some incentive has to be provided in some way or other for all our marginal forest land to be surveyed in regard to the future continuation of this industry. Periodical burning off for grass regrowth does not provide the ideal environment for timber regeneration. This aspect must be given closer consideration. Of course, there is no easy answer. The provision of $136,000 per year for five years is only scratching the surface. The contribution that Tasmania makes to the overall national income proportionately is a considerable amount when we take account of its size and population. 
A large proportion of the total production of the forestry industry is exported. The various aspects of forestry- the logging, plywood and wood chip industries and so many other byproductsare basic dollar earners. This industry in turn can help perhaps more than any other industry- because it is a regenerating and continuing process like our tourist attractions in Tasmania- to maintain a high and rising standard of living in our State. Unlike mining, which is a finite industry, where there are deposits which have been worked out and all that is left is a hole in the ground and some bankrupt shareholders, the forestry industry will provide a continuing process, if those responsible can see far enough ahead to plan for regeneration of the sort which will be effective for the generations which will follow us. After all, we have had the good fortune to inherit some magnificent forests in this continent, particularly in Tasmania, and there is a very heavy responsibility on this generation, now that we can see the limits of availability of good quality timber, for us to do something much more positive than is contained in this legislation. 1 am being critical to this extent. I know the difficulties which are present in the economy. 
I started off by mentioning the amount that is available in this loan, and that is virtually what it is. After 20 years it will accumulate interest which will make repayment much more difficult, because the expectation of a dividend from regeneration of eucalypts covers a period of 50-plus years. Therefore in the interim period after the interest starts to accrue on this amount it will place a burden on the people of Tasmania until there is logging. 
My contribution today is to draw the attention of the Senate to the fact that in my opinion not nearly enough emphasis is being placed on the level of national policy for this tremendous investment that we have, especially in Tasmania where our resources, although they are rich, are limited. This is one area which is not only creating employment opportunities but is also a valuable means of balancing our trade and making a contribution towards the economy. Timber is one of the greatest gifts that man has. Substitutes can be found for most things, but timber is a thing of beauty, whether it is in furniture or the other by-products which come from the forests, and it is something that should be constantly in our minds as one of our greatest assets. 
Although I have been critical, the Opposition does not oppose this legislation. We hope it will have a speedy passage, although it has been before the Senate for a considerable time. I do not think the funds available will be sufficient to cover in a planned way the regeneration that should be going on, but the idea is being commenced here. I hope success lies ahead for the people who will be responsible for its implementation, and particularly for the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation in its research into the whole problem in Tasmania. It has not been done properly in the past. But both State and Federal governments are not directing their attention to the need for planned regeneration. In doing this the Governments will be fulfilling a responsibility that the generations that follow us in this country will expect of us. That is the least they could expect of us. I hope that the Government will see fit to have another look at this very important matter and will be much more generous in its approach to the application of government funds for the regeneration of eucalypts in Tasmania. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. It is motivated by the information that we have on the incident involving the Air Canada DC9 aircraft structural deficiency experienced off the coast of the United States of America on a flight from Boston. The Minister will be aware that low winter temperatures at some airports, particularly Canberra, have a peculiar effect, in particular on nylon tyres that are fitted to the aircraft, when the aircraft is standing overnight. The portion of the tyre closest to the tarmac becomes flattened. So, on taxi-ing and run-up for take-off, what is called a square wheel' effect is caused. In view of the heavy vibration caused by this tyre condition on a heavily laden aircraft and the possibility of structural cracks being induced in the metal section of an aircraft by such vibration, will the Minister have a full civil aviation inquiry into the effects of the 'square wheel' vibration with a view to recommendations being made on methods to counteract the flattening of tyres on aircraft standing on low temperature prone tarmacs? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development. Efforts were made in this chamber last night by the blatant uranium lobbyist,  Senator Hamer,  to assure the Senate that practically all fields in the uranium and nuclear industry are safe. He even claimed that windmills were more dangerous than uranium mining. I draw the Minister's attention to this morning's Press report concerning the United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission's ordering the immediate closure of an atomic fuel fabrication plant in Tennessee, which reported the loss of uranium suitable for making nuclear weapons. I draw the Minister's attention also to the fact that India, South Africa, Israel and now Pakistan have obtained nuclear power by stealth. In view of other reports from America and in Australia of a high incidence of cancer among uranium miners, does the Government not see- 

 Government senators interjecting- 

I am talking about safety in the uranium industry. We are getting assurances from the Government that uranium mining is safe. It is not safe. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 7 June 1 979: 
1 ) Which foreign companies have been approved for investment in Australian private hospitals. 
Where is the parent company of each based. 
How many hospitals are: (a) owned; or (b) managed, by each company, and in which countries are these hospitals located. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. I refer to a report that the Australian High Commissioner in Singapore,  Mr Geoffrey  Price, has criticised the Western Mining Corporation for failing to accept responsibility for radioactive waste being stored at a Singapore steelworks. I ask the Minister: Is it an unusual occurrence for an Australian ambassador to recommend in a cable to the Department of Foreign Affairs during peace time that pressure be exerted on the Australian Broadcasting Commission via the General Manager,  Mr Duckmanton,  to suppress valid news coverage of matters embarrassing to private industry? Is the Minister aware that this matter refers to the neglect of the Western Mining Corporation to accept responsibility for contaminated waste in a Singapore steel plant caused by a measuring gauge containing a radioactive isotope which was lost by the Western Mining Corporation at its nickel mill in Western Australia and for which it was fined in Western Australia? 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 2 1 August 1979: 
Was  Mr Tony  Eggleton officially deputed to hand out the Prime Minister's press statements during the Commonwealth Heads of Government Conference in Lusaka during August 1979; if so, what qualifications does he have to act on behalf of the Prime Minister. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Science and the Environment. I draw attention to the most revealing public airing over the weekend of the differences between the National Country Party and the Liberal Party of Australia in Victoria. The following statement was made by  Mr Jim  Taylor, the Liberal Party's member for Gippsland in the Victorian Legislative Council: 
I would sooner go to bed with a rattlesnake than make a deal with the National Party. 
I ask the Minister, in his capacity as Minister responsible for the environment: What protection does he offer to the rattlesnake against the threat posed by the statement of that member of the Legislative Council that he would sooner go to bed with a rattlesnake than make a deal with the National Party? I draw the Minister's attention also to the statement made in a news release that the same could be said of the situation in New South Wales and Queensland and that some people there would not throw a shadow if they stood behind a corkscrew? 
-by leave-I would like to make a personal explanation. During the course of the debate on the Loan Bill to authorise the borrowing and expending of money for defence purposes, an honourable senator from Tasmania,  Senator Harradine,  borrowed the time of the Senate to use it as a forum under parliamentary privilege for his own defence purposes inasmuch as he said that there has been a concerted attempt by a back bencher- he named me- to vilify and assassinate the characters of members of the trade union movement. I reject that statement and I would say that  Senator Harradine  has offended all the traditions of the Parliament in making that dastardly attack on me. I would also like to draw, the attention of the Senate to the fact that  Senator Harradine  at the moment is under pressure in Tasmania on this very matter that he has raised in the Senate tonight. 
This is my personal explanation of why the honourable senator has vilified me. He has misdirected government funds in Tasmania and he is under investigation by the Auditor-General. 

 - Mr President - 
If I have been accused of vilifying and assassinating the character of an honourable senator, I should have the right to reply to that charge, to object to it, to deny it and to explain to the Senate the motivation behind this very virulent and unfair attack on me personally. 
A'  Senator .  . . shall not introduce any new matter, or interrupt any  Senator in  possession of the Chair . . . 
We will pass over that part. The Standing Order goes on to state:  no debatable matter shall be brought forward or debate arise on such explanation. 
I suggest that the ruling you made,  Mr President,  is the one that should be followed. 
It was my intention to make a personal explanation and to claim that I have been misrepresented by another senator. I do not think that you,  Mr President,  or any other member of this chamber would deny me the right to deny vehemently that I, as a back bencher, had vilified and assassinated the character of members of the trade union movement in Tasmania. I have attempted to give the background of this attack on me and you,  Mr President,  have ruled that I am not allowed to do so and I am being prevented from doing so. But I believe that I have the right to make a personal explanation. 
It has given me that right. All I wanted to point out- it is only factual-is that the matter that  Senator Harradine  attempted to raise tonight relating to the misappropriation of funds from the State Government in Tasmania, for which he is in great difficulty there and for which he is using this forum - 
By the indulgence of the Senate - 
Which has been granted to you,  Senator O'Byrne-  a senator may explain matters of a personal nature, although there be no Question before the Senate; but such matters may not be debated. 
You must observe that Standing Order. You cannot debate the matter. You may explain matters of a personal nature concerning your situation in this regard. You have sought to reply to a misrepresentation, but you cannot debate the matter. I rule that way very firmly. 
I will test out the sincerity of this chamber by asking that the charge that I have vilified and assassinated the characters of members of the trade union movement be withdrawn and that  Senator Harradine  apologise to me. I insist on that,  Mr President. 
By the indulgence of the Senate - 
Which has been granted to  Senator O  'Byrne-  a  Senator may  explain matters of a personal nature, although there be no Question before the Senate . . . 
He is explaining why it is incorrect to say that he vilified and assassinated the characters of trade union leaders, which was the accusation. I think the Standing Orders set out that he has a full right to explain why the accusation is not justified. Therefore, I submit that if the accusation is not justified and is just for the purpose of getting  Senator Harradine  out of some difficult position in which he finds himself in Tasmania, then  Senator O'Byrne  is entitled to exonerate himself completely, to extend his expressions to the whole cause of the conflict. 
I have not completed my personal explanation. Surely I have certain rights here still. 
I have not finished. I was sat down by the raising of a point of order. I repeat: A very offensive accusation has been made against me. I am not being given any rights at all to counter that vile accusation and you,  Mr President,  are ruling that I can draw attention only to the fact that this accusation has been made. You know that previously this sort of cross-fire has taken place here and by your ruling you are depriving me of the right to counter what  Senator Harradine  has said publicly against me in this chamber. 
He has taken advantage of that without any consultation with the Whips. He has abused the privileges of the Senate because usually the Whips arrange the order of speakers. He spoke about a matter which had no reference to the Bill, which is authorising expenditure of moneys. He used the forum of the Senate to attack me and now I am being deprived of my right to defend myself. If that is the way in which the Standing Orders are to be operated here, we are bringing this chamber into disgrace; and that is exactly what  Senator Harradine  is doing. I want to try to draw a halt to the type of thing whereby he can make these accusations against me and have the protection of the Chair. He does not deserve the protection of the Chair. While he was speaking I drew attention to the fact that he was not relating his remarks to the Bill. You allowed him to go on. He got out what he wanted to express over the air and I am being deprived of my right to defend myself. All I can do now, I suppose, to defer to your ruling,  Mr President,  is take up the matter during the adjournment debate tonight. But he has the advantage over me in that he is such a crawler - 
That he would use the air waves to attack me and I have to speak during the adjournment debate when the same people who heard him cannot hear me. It is not fair and I think that something should be done about him. 
That so much of the Standing Orders by suspended as would prevent  Senator O'Byrne  from speaking to the Senate for 10 minutes and me responding for 10 minutes. 
In support of that motion I point out that that would enable  Senator O'Byrne  - 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
-This matter arose earlier this evening during the course of a debate on the Loan Bill 1979. The disruption of the Senate business tonight has occurred because  Senator Harradine  was allowed to depart from the subject matter to make a personal attack on me.  Senator Harradine  walked across the chamber and spoke to  Senator Carrick.  He colluded with  Senator Carrick  to arrange to have this diversion so that the debate on the Loan Bill would not proceed as it had been proceeding.  Senator Carrick  is becoming experienced at defending people who run close to breaking the law. He might have his hands full in taking on another case and defending people who may be- and this may be sub judicecharged with false pretences, misappropriation of government funds, interception of cheques, forgery and being in possession of funds reasonably suspected of having being stolen. 
Besides that,  Senator Harradine  has continually disturbed the proceedings of this forum by bringing matters forward in which he is engaged in Tasmania. He has used the Standing Orders to put his own case forward. Parliamentary privilege is being abused by  Senator Harradine  in this matter. 
That is quite right. He got here under false pretences. All the years he was in the Labor Party he was an undercover member of the National Civic Council. He denied it on radio and television. He infiltrated the Labor Party under false pretences. He has now been found to have got into the area of misappropriating government funds. He will have great difficulty in getting away from this situation. I would have thought that the first law of nature- self preservation- would have dissuaded  Senator Harradine  from raising this matter which is very controversial in Tasmania at present. Only yesterday the  Mercury  reported: 
The Premier,  Mr Lowe,  has sought a further report on the alleged mystery around the $55,000 in Government grants for trade union training. 
He said yesterday there were still 'questions in my mind' which required clarification. 
This is the Premier of the State of Tasmania. This is a matter that is being investigated and it is on the verge of coming under the Crimes Act.  Senator Harradine  is tempting fate in raising this matter here tonight. The report goes on to say: 
He had sought full information on the matter from the Minister for Education,  Mr Holgate. 
In a letter which is undated, the Minister for Education,  Mr Holgate,  in replying to a question that was asked in the State, said: 
I acknowledge your letter dated 2nd February 1979 requesting further information on grants paid by the Education Department to the Tasmanian Trades and Labour Council. 
This letter is addressed to  Mr McKinnon.  He went on to say: 
I should point out that the Trade Union Training Authority is a Commonwealth body established by legislation on the 8th September 1975, the grants in question were paid to the Tasmanian Trades and Labour Council and administered by the Tasmanian Trade Union Training Advisory Committee, no State funds have been granted to the Commonwealth body. 
The grants were initiated by - 
Madam, please pipe down. The Minister in his letter continued: 
The grants were initiated by a Cabinet decision on the 27th February 1973 that an annual grant be provided to the Tasmanian Trades and Labor Council to provide financial assistance for Trade Union Education. 
This followed a unanimous 1971 ACTU Congress decision . . . 
Later on in the letter he said: 
I am unable to ascertain from departmental records or copies of the cheques as to who banked the cheques. In only one case is there an endorsement by the payee, this was signed by R. J. Watling in respect of the $10,000 cheque dated 1st November 1977. 
All cheques were paid into the Commonwealth Trading Bank and credited to Account No. 925-621. Only two cheques identify the Branch, namely, no 025616 dated 29th November 1976, the Moonah Branch of the Commonwealth Trading Bank and cheque no. 33457 dated the 11th October 1975. the Murray Street Branch of the Commonwealth Trading Bank. 
I trust this further information will be of assistance. 
Yours sincerely. Harry Holgate, Minister. 
Now these are State funds and the Minister was giving his explanation of these funds. On 19 January 1979 the Minister said: 
I refer to your letter dated 18th December 1 978 requesting information on grants paid by the State Government to the Trade Union Training Authority and am pleased to provide you with the following information: 18th January 1974. $15,000, forwarded to 41 Davey St, Hobart. 12th December 1974. $10,000, C/- Trades Hall, 41 Davey St, Hobart. 15th December 1975, $10,000, Trades Hall, 219 New Town Rd New Town. 29th November 1976, $10,000, C/- Secretary, Carolside 2 19 New Town Rd New Town. 9th November 1977, $10,000, C/- Secretary, 'Carolside ', 2 1 9 New Town Rd New Town. 
All cheques were payable to the Tasmanian Trades and Labour Council. 
I have here a copy of the report of the AuditorGeneral under the Audit Act of 1 9 1 8. It is a statement of public accounts and is entitled: 'Tasmanian Trades and Labour Council, Trade Union Training Program '. It reads: 
State Government grants totalling $55,000 were made available to the Tasmanian Trades and Labour Council for a Trade Union Training program under the Consolidated Revenue Appropriation Acts for the years 1973-74 to 1977-78. 
Statement of Income and Expenditure for the period 2 1 January 1974 to 28 February 1979 has received my qualified certificate. 
This is one report for five years of Commonwealth funds. The report of the Auditor-General continues: 
The qualification related to expenditure of $7,949 which was not supported by vouchers. Notwithstanding the qualification. Audit was reasonably satisfied that the expenditure had been properly incurred on the approved purpose of the grants. 
In today's  Mercury,  which was unavailable until tonight, under the heading 'Accountants defend trade union finances', it is stated: 
A Hobart chartered accountant said yesterday that $55,000 for trade union training had never been the property of the Tasmanian Trades and Labour Council. 
The Minister said that it was the property of the Trades and Labor Council. You signed the cheques. 
You signed the cheques. 
You try to defend yourself. You are on the hook, brother. 
The article continues: 

 Mr Rodney Moore, of Hobart chartered accountants Garrott and Garrott said yesterday: 'The grant was and is not the property of the TTLC 
And, to have included them in the TTLC audit would, in my view, have been incorrect.' 
That is the point I am making. You misappropriated that money. 
It is true. 
I can direct them to you,  Mr President.  I conclude by saying that the Premier, the Minister, and the whole of the trade union movement in Tasmania are most concerned that this money has been misappropriated.  Senator Harradine  has carefully covered up his part in the matter. While he was the secretary of the Trades Hall Council he was able to divert this money in the direction of the National Civic Council, and with the money he was able to appoint people to the Trade Union Training Authority. When the Commonwealth took over the responsibility, he continued to draw money from the Tasmanian State Government, even though there was a credit in the account of between $43,000 and $50,000. That was deception. This is a most reprehensible situation, and  Senator Harradine  is likely to be on a charge of misappropriation of these funds if he cannot give an explanation. He has used this forum instead of a forum in Tasmania, where the matter was perpetrated. 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General. I draw his attention to a startling statement made by the Commissioner for Community Relations that there were 30 racial groupings with an estimated 100,000 members in Australia. Has the Minister been briefed on a recent upsurge in thefts of gelignite and other explosive equipment? It was stated in the  Canberra Times  on Saturday that this has resulted in a major security scare. Does he share my concern that 130 sticks of gelignite discovered hidden in Stromlo Forest had been stolen from the back of a utility truck left unattended by a Canberra builder. I might add that the truck containing the explosives was clearly marked as such. Is it not time that the Minister introduced legislation to regulate the purchase, use and storage of explosives in Commonwealth territories and to encourage all States to do likewise? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence and follows reports in the  Australian Financial Review  of both today and yesterday about Brigadier David McMillen, who was  recently appointed as the Australian representative of Ford Aerospace, which is a joint front-runner to supply any prospective Australian satellite. As the brigadier was the Deputy Chief of Materiel for the Army until July and a member of the White Task Force, which recommended a domestic satellite, does the Minister see any potential for conflict of interest? Further, what basis is there for the briefing given by Government officials to the  Australian Financial Review  stating that Service officers do not have to comply with conduct guidelines set down for civilian public servants? Finally, is there a need for similar guidelines to be issued to senior Service officers? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education. I refer to the telexes which were sent by the Minister and the permanent head of his Department to their State counterparts and which were evidently leaked to  Mr Laurie  Oakes as the basis for his story in this morning's Melbourne  Age.  As there is much confusion amongst the young unemployed and their families after  Mr Viner's  barely concealed threats to take away their unemployment benefit, will the Minister for Education explain his reference in the telex to 'a process of early identification of "at risk" students, devising meaningful alternatives for them'? Who will decide which students are at risk? Will their parents be consulted? ls there a danger that there will be a stigma attached to them? 

 -As Senator Messner was speaking the former  President  of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission,  Mr Justice  Kirby, said on  Nationwide  program that the consultation provisions of this Bill that we are debating, the Conciliation and Arbitration Amendment Bill 1979, were wrong in principle, making it possible to influence the Commissioners' decisions, and that other amendments also were unacceptable. For me to be able to repeat almost immediately the observations of this very distinguished former President of the Commission is perhaps opportune, although I feel that it will not have any influence whatever on Government members. 
At the beginning of his homily  Senator Messner  was at pains to try to draw a distinction between the worker and the unionist. But we are dealing with people- real people. We are not dealing with abstractions or someone way out there. We are dealing with people who will not be pushed around. Trade unionists are Australians. They are human beings, virile Australians, and they do not like being pushed around by petty Jacks in office. I must say that it is difficult to reply to  Senator Messner  because he did not say anything. But I must say this also, that he, like his colleagues, with the exception of  Senator Missen-  I must pay tribute to the observations of and the contribution by  Senator Missen  to this debate; it was a very thoughtful and constructive contribution- is locked into a power group that is astride of this country at the present time.  His  philosophy, like that of the others, embraces the belief that anything that stands in the way of their philosophy, their profit seeking and the selfish systems to which they subscribe, has to be cast aside. That is the nature of this legislation. As the pressure grows in this system to perpetuate and justify itself, so will the powers grow ruthlessly to overpower and subdue the accepted traditional patterns of industrial relations. That is the issue which we are debating. 
The legislation can be classified as of historical importance inasmuch as it marks a milestone in the present march of Australia down the road towards a right wing elitist fascist State. It has all the hallmarks of pre-war Germany, under the strutting arrogance of a neo-Hitler; with the direction of our news, media and police by a Himmler; with the monopoly of the media equal to that of a Goebbels; and the passive acquiescence of a frustrated and demoralised community. This state of affairs is the product of a Fraser dominated Executive which has usurped the rights and the powers of the Parliament and is prepared to bludgeon through legislation such as this to patch up the Government's decadent collapsing capitalist ethic. Any Australian who does not record his abhorrence to this trend is a traitor to those who fought against Hiterlism and Fascism. As I said before, people will not be pushed around. I am just warning the Government that legislation such as this will beget violent action. We on this side are violently and totally opposed - 

 Government senators interjecting- 

Yes, violently opposed to this legislation, as violent as the Government wants to get. The Government should put the people of Australia to the test on this Bill. This legislation has been conceived in conspiratorial secrecy and is born in perfidy. It is a slick, cynical and sick set-up to induce confrontation and industrial turmoil for the purpose of creating another sleazy and dishonest election issue, just as the Government did in 1 975. 1 refer to law and order. What hypocrisy, what utter gall and hide the Government has to think that it can cover up its motives when they are so obvious. In the opinion of reputable jurists the measure is unconstitutional. But this is only a minor corroborative detail as far as members of the Government are concerned. They have a track record of using every snide and questionable backdoor charade to have and to hold power. 
You have to give me a go. You cannot stop me. The Constitution, the Governor-General, the Senate, the courts, the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, the States, the trade unions and the people of the Commonwealth are all means to an end as far as this Government is concerned. The end justifies the means. That is the cry of the fascist. The means contained in this Bill should arouse the ire of the Australian people to put an end to this false pretence, ersatz National.sozialistische Fraser Government. The long traditions of the arbitration and conciliation set-up in Australia has been studded with consensus decisions arising from consultation between the employer, the employee and the Commission. Where was the consultation in the preparation of this legislation? The liaison of the National Labour Consultative Council with the Government was the only weak attempt to create a facade of respectability for the Bill. The National Labour Consultative Council was comprised of employers. What a sham, what a charade, what an insult to the intelligence of the ordinary people of Australia. 
You cannot read, you hillbilly. This Parliament is indebted to  Mr Justice  Staples for the honest and forthright appraisal of this despicable and underhand attack by the Government on the industrial relations fabric of this country. Not only  Mr Justice  Staples but also his fellow justices and commissioners- all 25 commissioners- and the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the Council of Australian Government Employees Organisations are appalled at the arrogance and the arbitrariness of this measure.  Sir Richard  Kirby, a man of impeccable standing in the field of industrial relations, has said: 
Industrial harmony and co-operation between workers and employers is not produced by legislation of this sort. You cannot achieve it by Draconian means or threats. 
The Government is calling into question the whole fabric of the citadel of arbitration and conciliation in this country. Perhaps the Government wishes to destroy the citadel. If it cannot run it, break it! The Government has a known obsession with the dictum of divide and rule as espoused in federalism. That dictum is espoused by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Carrick).  The Government could quite easily be attempting to throw industrial relations matters back to the States. Section 5 1 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act is designed to provide for the settlement of disputes beyond the limits of the States. It would appear that this legislation is designed to undermine the arbitration and conciliation set-up in this country in the hope that industrial matters might be referred back again to the States so that the Government can divide and rule the trade union movement, can take another blow at the unity of the national trade union movement. In another place the honourable member for Wilmot gave an indication of the real attitude-- 
Yes,  Mr Burr,  the noxious weed. He gave an indication of the real attitude of the Government to the trade union movement when he said that the Government is prepared to take such legislative action as to ensure that the community is protected against the actions of industrial gangsters. That is an illustration of the mentality of people who are prepared to introduce and to support legislation such as this. They believe that fellow Australians are industrial gangsters. This Bill will take its place in the mosaic of legislation to suppress and to destroy the unions. 
I make the prediction that this Government will rue this legislation and will for a long time lick the wounds that the Australian people will inflict upon it at their next chance to pass judgment on it. History has a long habit of repeating itself. Stanley Melbourne Bruce, who believed he controlled the keys of the pearly gates, met a very sorry fate when he toyed with ideas similar to those put forward by this Government. He lost his Government and he lost his seat in parliament. We have no evidence of his ultimate fate. On many occasions governments of the complexion of the Government which sits opposite have tried to impose a compulsory arbitration system and have failed. They will continue to fail. Any compulsory arbitration system will be rejected by the people in the work place. They will make certain that this type of legislation is a failure. There is enough discontent and disillusionment and disgust with the Government and today's economic system without this provocative and punitive stirring by the Government. The Government should beware. The sleeping dog may bare his fangs and sink them into the flabby throat of his tormentor. Government senators should mark my words that this legislation can provoke - 

 Government senators interjecting- 

I am trying to get into the thick skulls of Government senators, which seems to be an impossible task, that this legislation is provocative to the extent that it can induce the widespread disapproval of the 2.5 million people who have been degraded and denigrated in the debate in this chamber. They have been described as industrial bludgers, anarchists and the like. Freezing funds, sanctions, deregistration, suspending benefits, and suspending rights and privileges may appear to be a strong weapon to use. All I can say is that the immutable law of Mendel that like begets like, that, to quote myself, violence begets violence or, to quote  Senator Baume  or one of his predecessors, an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth can be adopted as well or even better by the other side under provocative circumstances. The Government is forcing the trade union movement into reciprocal, equal and opposite reaction and the movement would not be able ever to raise its head again if it allowed this attack on its existence to occur without staging a full fight. 
I write my own notes, whereas many honourable senators opposite have notes written for them and read them meticulously. I am referring to my own notes. I will continue to refer to them. What I have been saying is getting under the thick hide of honourable senators opposite. They know full well that they have to support this legislation to hold their positions amongst their supporters, but if they had a free go they would be like their colleague,  Senator Missen,  and express the truth on this matter. It is provocative legislation. It is hurtful. It is a retrograde piece of legislation. One would think that Government supporters are talking about the enemy when they speak of trade unionists. One would honestly think that this section of the community is their enemy. 
Most of the Government supporters are socalled bunyip aristocrats. They have climbed a rung or two up the social ladder and set out to despise their fellow Australians. Those fellow Australians toil and spin to produce the goods that honourable senators need, unlike many of the parasites who secretly think that trade unionists should be taken out and shot. They would not be able to drive a car, eat a dinner, switch on a light or have a house to live in if it was not for the trade unionists of this country. One would think that we on this side of the chamber were vying for the power to control the trade unionists. 
That is not so. We are asserting that the Commission is the appropriate body to deal with disputes, not politically biased, self-interested creatures of the system to which honourable senators opposite so subserviently bow and scrape. Would they deregister the Walsh companies or the Sinclair Pastoral Company? 
I would like to know whether anyone on the Government side would deregister the Walsh companies or the Sinclair Pastoral Company and deprive its employees or its shareholders of their rights- not Pygmalion likely. There are honourable senators on the Government side of the chamber who are noted for their concern for civil rights. This deregistration proposal affects the civil rights of every unionist. It can deprive him of his industrial rights and his rights to an award. I give the Government a warning: The unionists will stand up for those rights. They will stand up and be counted when the time comes. This is the type of provocative legislation that will bring that about. I am quite serious when I say that the attitude of this Government is testing to the limit the people of this country who produce the goods, who produce the wealth, who have rights, and who have an entitlement to share in the technological age. 
The only objective of Government senators is to protect those who have the monopoly of technology and who will not share with the employees of industry the great advantages that have been made. All they want to do is to throw onto the scrap heap the young people leaving school. There is no use for those people in industry today. They had a use in my day. When I was unemployed, the only way that one could get a job was to work in a war industry or go to war. That is the way the capitalist system works. It skims off the surplus youth in war, raises the flag, gets the old blue rinses out to say: 'You are a brave hero. Go off to war', and encourages its supporters, like a lot of the people who are the top men in industry today to be in B company- be there when they go, be there when they come back, and make the profit while they are away. That is the way the system works. The 
Government is in real trouble. This is a facade. It is a smokescreen. The Government's policies are in tatters. The economy is haywire. Unemployment is high and rising. Our youth are bewildered and disillusioned. This legislation will add another black cross- a hackercrenz, a swastika -to the appalling botch that this Government is making of this country. 
-My question is directed to the Attorney-General. Does his Department have charge of the matters involving four Australian uranium companies which are currently subject to litigation in the United States and on whose behalf the Attorney announced on Monday that Australia had intervened? Has his Department consulted the Department of Foreign Affairs on the wider implications of this issue for relations between Australia and the United States? What was the machinery for this consultation with the Department of Foreign Affairs? Is it an effective method of safeguarding the full range of Australian interests? 
-I draw to the attention of the Minister for Science and the Environment reports that are abroad that the Government is set to opt out of environmental control. Can the Minister substantiate or deny these reports? On the other hand, does he have confidence that each State would always act in the national interest if primary responsibility for the environment were to return to the States? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Science and the Environment and follows a question I asked yesterday about a continuing Federal responsibility for the environment. The Minister said that environmental legislation in the States varied in quality and that, in fact, in some States there was no legislation but only regulations. The Minister also affirmed the Federal role of encouragement of the States with regard to environmental assessments. 
Does the Minister have regular meetings on environmental matters with his State counterparts? Does he recognise the increasing need for some Federal-State uniform legislation, especially in the light of recent articles in the  Age  about independent truckies being paid to dump toxic liquid waste in residential areas? This has been described in the headline in the  Age  as 'like letting loose a Great Plague '. Will the Minister consider as a topic for a meeting of Federal and State Environment Ministers the need to compile a register of materials which are dangerous to the environment in the same way as a register of the National Estate has been compiled? 
-My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate both in that capacity and as Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to socalled town meetings recently held by the Minister for Foreign Affairs in Townsville, Albury and Bunbury. The  Sydney Morning Herald  stated that these meetings were organised by the Department of Foreign Affairs. The  Australian  of the same day described the build-up in the following way: 
For weeks before the town was flooded with propaganda about the highlight of October 31- a speech and question time by Andrew Peacock.  . . Posters of a smiling  Mr Peacock  were plastered around the town and there were spot ads on radio and promotion on television. 
I therefore ask the Minister: Who paid for this personal promotion campaign for the Minister? Was the advertising paid for by the Department of Foreign Affairs or by some other Government body, or was it the responsibility of the local branches of the Liberal Party to fund the Foreign Minister's attempt to foil the leadership ambitions of the Treasurer? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. I refer to an article in the  Age  of 3 1 October headed: 'Woman beats high cost of funerals' which described how an unemployed woman was quoted $900 as the minimum price for the cremation of her pensioner father. When the woman decided to organise a funeral herself and to deal directly with the crematorium, the irate and callous undertaker tore up the death certificate. Is the Minister aware that a starting price of $1,000 for a minimum service is not considered extraordinary? Will she bear in mind that the funeral benefit for pensioners is only $40? In view of the references in the Finnane report on some New South Wales firms of undertakers that it was customary in that State for bribes to be paid to hospitals and their staff to gain business for undertakers, will the Minister initiate a full scale inquiry by the Government into the whole costly funeral business which would be especially timely as American razzamatazz now being copied will add further to funeral costs? 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Science and the Environment and follows a question I asked him on 25 
October relating to uniform Federal-State legislation and the need to compile a register of materials which are dangerous to the environment, just as a register of the National Estate has been compiled. In view of the very alarming situation which has arisen in Canada, where a railway truck carrying chlorine has caused tremendous concern to a very wide section of the Canadian community, has the Minister yet given consideration to my suggestion that the need for a national register of dangerous substances should be an agenda item for a Federal-State meeting which he indicated would be held in December? I remind the Minister that in my earlier question I referred specifically also to the problems of chemical and toxic wastes from industry. If the Minister will not give this matter the priority requested, will he seek for me from his Department further information on which authorities are required to be notified of the movement of dangerous substances? Does the Minister see any need for such a Federal coordinating role? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Home Affairs, upon notice, on 24 October 1 979: 
How many professional and semi-professional staff members are currently employed by the Australian War Memorial and what position does each staff member hold (as at 24 October 1979). 
Which positions are vacant, and when is it anticipated they will be filled. 
Are there any problems in finding conservators willing to accept the salary range offered. 
Will there be sufficient trained staff to make full use of the new conservation and storage repository at Mitchell. 
How many items is it intended to restore in the first year of the repository's operation. 
Will the operation cater for all items needing urgent restoration; if not, are there any plans to use outside consultants. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 25 October 1979: 
What was the total cost to the Commonwealth of the $ 16 bed/day subsidy for: (a) beds in private hospitals; and (b) private beds in public hospitals, for each year since 1 969-70. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. It relates to a letter from her departmental Director-General regarding the social security fraud case. Since that letter was read into  Hansard  some ambiguities and anomalies have' arisen. Does the Minister accept ministerial responsibility for the statement of the Director-General which she read into  Hansard last  Thursday? 
-The Appropriation Bill (No. 1) puts into legislative form the proposals of the Budget. The Government has shown its capabilities of maintaining a policy of inequity, injustice and deviousness. It is hoaxing the people of Australia. We believe that the motion for the second reading of this Bill should be amended and therefore I move: 
At end of motion, add ', but the Senate condemns the Fraser Government for presenting a Budget which: 
reduces the real living standards of Australian families; 
will increase unemployment to the highest level in the nation's history; 
facilitates and stimulates the recent fresh outbreak of inflation; 
ensures that economic growth will be well below the nation's productive capacity; 
fails to introduce an effective job creation program, particularly for the young; 
savagely reduces the allocation of funds for job training and re-training programs; 
will be responsible for the highest level of tax and total revenue collections in the nation 's history; 
forces State and local governments either to reduce their services or increase their charges; and 
intensifies the lack of credibility of the Prime Minister and his government and adds to their long list of broken promises'. 
Earlier tonight, as  Senator Hamer  took honourable senators on an esoteric visit through the various sections of cloud-cuckoo land, the thought was running through my mind that if the Ayatollah Khomeini were running this country the eyes of the members of the Government would be taken out because of their blind sins of commission, their tongues would be cut out for the lies and half truths that they have told the Australian people and their hands would be cut off for the way they had dipped into the pay packets of the wage earners through increases in living costs and inflation. The obsession of this Government, in its sticking-plaster philosophy of action, accentuates and exacerbates the trend towards deepening recession. On every hand we see evidence that the further this Government goes, the worse the economy becomes and the more rapidly our resources fall into the hands of foreign owners. Takeovers are the order of the day. Big money, big capital and big companiesmultinationals are astride this country, and there seems to be no end to their activities. This Government encourages this type of activity. 
This legislation highlights the true philosophy of the Establishment and of the capitalist system- double-talk and double standards. It is a blueprint to lock us into a depression, which is the classic way that the manipulators of the capitalist economic system can discipline and, in turn, turn to their advantage the savings, equity, jobs and security of the broad masses of the people. The cynical and immoral attitude of individual members of the Government, many of whose parents saw the heartbreak, suffering and hardship of the last depression, may think that, as long as they are on the lifeboat, others can sink. Greed and selfishness stalk this land and are enshrined in the policy of this Government and in this Budget. One after another, Government members have sought to justify and to rationalise their performance, knowing full well that they have gained a majority in this Parliament by pledges to the people to decrease inflation and to reduce interest rates, unemployment and taxes, but all of these pledges have been deceptive and dishonest. Instead, there has been and will be further increases in inflation and interest rates, growing unemployment and increases in taxation. 
It has been indicated by the Melbourne Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research that by January of next year there will be 550,000 people unemployed. As inflation increases towards the level of 10 per cent, there are ludicrous attempts by the Government to explain the reasons. We hear the excuse that petrol price rises by the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries have been one of the major causes. The truth of the matter is that 85 per cent of the increases in petrol prices have arisen solely from the actions of this Government. As  Senator Elstob  has just observed, every petrol station in Australia has become a tax collector for this Government in a snide, underhand way. Yet the average Australian is being led to believe by the propaganda and claims of the Government that this is caused from outside. It is a direct tax on the people and the motorists of Australia to finance the subsidies and handouts that are being given to the bigger business people of Australia. As I have mentioned in my amendment, further taxes this financial year on the income paid by wage and salary earners will add to the declining living standards of the people. To add insult to the injury of these policies, there has been a heavy cut in the employment-producing areas, bringing about reduced employment prospects, particularly in the service industries and in industries dependent on government contracts. The spleen of the Government has been vented on the public sector and the Public Service. For the life of me I cannot understand why the Government continues to get support from members of the Public Service of this country when time after time the Government makes promises to them and then makes them the object of its bitter cuts and its negative policies. 
To point up the differences between the concessions that are made to industry and the taxes that have been imposed on the ordinary wage and salary earner of this country, company taxation has been increased 8 per cent and contributes 6.3 per cent to the increase in taxation revenue, but 40.5 per cent of the increase in taxation revenue will come from pay-as-you-earn taxation. Excise on oil and liquefied petroleum gas will provide 2 1.5 per cent. This is consistent with the Fraser Government's policy of replacing a still greater burden on wage and salary earners. Over the past four years the taxation concessions to big business have amounted to 33 per cent. In the same period the tax burden on wage and salary earners has increased from 39 per cent to 44 per cent. The treatment by the Government of the unemployed provides a stark example of the Government's priorities. Funding for unemployment and training of the unemployed have been cut. In contrast, assistance to industry for research and development has been increased by 50 per cent to $32m and grants for export development have increased by 300 per cent to $2 15m. There has been a reduction of nearly $350m in health expenditure. This includes cuts of SI 80m in medical benefits, at least $45m in hospital expenditure and $24m in pharmaceutical benefits. Members of the public will be paying an extra $180m directly from heir pockets due to the abandonment of the 40 per cent government rebate. 
If ever there was an example of government by stealth, we have it here. The charge that the Fraser Administration is the highest taxing government in Australia's history is being well borne out. When the historians look back at the period of office of the Fraser Government they will describe how the rich got richer and poor got poorer. The decline in real living standards of Australian families will be seen as a factor in the upsurge in the demand for a change in the stupid, wasteful boom and bust system- the on and off, give and take away promises and hedge system. People are heartily sick and cynical of a living and continuing hypocrisy which is personified by this Government of stealth. For a second year in a row this Government has brought in a Budget designed to make people's incomes and living standards fall behind the rate of increase in the cost of living. The Government admits that this year's inflation rate will be over 10 per cent and that the rate is increasing largely as a result of the Government's policies, but at the same time it engages in an unremitting campaign against wages. 
As I have pointed out, a major inflationary factor has been the decision to move immediately to import parity pricing for Australian crude oil. This could quite easily have been brought about by gradual steps if it was necessary to encourage oil exploration. A very interesting situation has developed in that immediately the multinationals are able to get encouragement from this Government, they are not only moving rapidly to exploit our oil and other mineral resources, but also they are finding opportunities that have been kept secret and very much away from public knowledge. It could be said that this is an encouragement to develop our natural resources, but the whole situation rests on the fact that the Government is allowing our resources to be pillaged by people whose interests are overseas. If we examine the structure of most of the major companies in the takeover business in Australia, we find that by fair or other means they are using Australia as a quarry. We find that year by year the great advantages that should be flowing to the Australian people by way of expanding standards of living and greater employment opportunities are being skimmed off and are going into the pockets of people who reside overseas and who have a continuing vested interest, as long as we are locked into the capitalist economic system, to sit wherever they wish in the boardrooms of Geneva or of New York and to manipulate the colonial or developing countries so that their resources will flow into such a small area. The Government policy which is making it so much harder for Australian families to maintain their living standards on their present wages is that which brought about the added cost of health insurance. This Government promised that Medibank would be maintained, but in the whole history of this country there has never been a greater shambles than the present situation with respect to our health and medical services.  Mr Fraser  seems to be turning the clock back to the era when people who needed help with respect to health costs would stay away from hospitals and doctors because of the cost involved. They were led to believe that in a country such as ours, with such wealth available, everyone should be entitled to the best possible health service. We have seen frittered away a system which gave hope to them by building such a service into our standard of living. There seems to be no attempt to come to terms with the medical profession which is continuously increasing its fees. Only recently in Tasmania the Minister for Health officially cited examples of part time practitioners in public hospitals earning $90,000 to $100,000 a year. I suppose that in a system of getting in for one's cut and of saying 'Blow you Jack, I am fireproof, that is quite good business; but it all adds to the momentum which is building up. 
I feel quite certain that this Government is instrumental in accelerating the growth of a frame of mind in the people of this country such that they will not suffer that sort of thing very much longer. Unless some lead is given by the Government towards a better attitude to health services and to the maintenance of the various social amenities in this society, it will pay very dearly for it. I would like to quote from a publication that was launched today by the shadow Minister for industrial relations in the other place. I think it describes the situation very clearly. On page 136 of Mick Young's book entitled /  Want to Work he  said: 
Nothing tends to confirm the view that Canberra was a mistake more than working in Parliament House. All around on the other side of the lake and in the southern suburbs there is one of the worst unemployment problems in Australia; but you would never know behind the closed doors of parliament. The Fraser government has full control; it can evade questions. No parliamentary committees, joint or party, have any real impact. A cynical government can ignore not only the unemployed in Canberra, but also the hundreds of thousands beyond Canberra. Even when the government appoints committees like the Norgard and Myers inquiries, it simply ignores their findings when they are inconveniently honest and shelves them. The Fraser government doesn't want serious discussion or debate. The level of argument is typified by Malcolm Fraser's gibe that Labor' policy is to pay dole-bludgers so that they can go surfing. To sit in the House of Representatives over the past few years and listen to the speech-making from the government has been an embittering experience for me. 
I think that paragraph highlights one of the cankers that exist in our community. It shows the cynicism of a government which has achieved power and holds power for power's sake. This Government is assisting in the disintegration of the traditional parliamentary system of government in this country. We have seen a move away from participation by the Parliament in the ordinary activities of this country into an enclave comprising the Executive and the bureaucracy. I mentioned earlier the big majority that had been achieved by virtual stealth and by the use of the power of the media. As we witnessed today, that power is becoming greater as a result of a further monopolisation of the very essence of democracy- the dissemination of information. In combination with the media, that enclave of bureaucrats and the Executive is bypassing the normal democratic processes of this country. 
-It is true and the honourable senator will have to admit it when he realises what a rubber stamp the Parliament has become. At every level of parliament, both State and Federal, parliament has become only a condoning instrument. The honourable senator could quite easily have a button in his home which, when his leader's finger went up he could press to register his vote, for all the influence he has on the affairs of this country at the present time. 
As the Father of the Senate, I have seen that influence being exercised more and more over the years I have been in this Parliament. When I came to this Parliament it had a tremendously important role to play in fulfilling the destiny of our democratic country. I have seen the full cycle. I think that this Government would welcome, as would the whole system, a way out of the difficult situation it is in. Governments in the past were always able to find an escape through war. The capitalist system, which is perpetuated by this Government, has to have the complete cycle of boom, bust and war. But the nuclear capacity of nations makes it impracticable to complete that cycle. The Government now finds itself in a position in which it has to find an alternative to war. All it can see ahead is a depression. The activities of people overseas and their influence on business activities here are reflected in the violent fluctuations in business activities reported in the Press from day to day, an indication that this Government has learnt nothing from the examples of the past. 
I go so far as to say that the Parliament of this country has been reduced in stature not only by the events of 1 1 November 1975 but also by the activities of the present Government in maintaining its power by deluding and misinforming the people in our democracy. I place a lot of the responsibility on the individual members of the Government because they have not measured up to their responsibilities. They promised their electorates that they would come into the Parliament and perform their functions with a measure of independence. They are as ciphers who follow blindly the lead given by their leader. Their leader has assumed a dictatorial position, with a threat to Government members that any of them who do not follow the lead will have their candidature opposed at the next general election. That power is exercised in a subtle way by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and people who are close by him. 
I believe also that the Government works closely in concert with influences similar to the Dirty Tricks Department' of the Nixon Administration in the United States of America. The way in which the Government can manipulate State elections, the way in which it can manipulate preselections within the Government parties, the power and the fear it can impose on individual members of the Government parties, constitute a denigration of the whole democratic spirit. This Government has a lot to answer for. History will show that its negative and cynical approach has done such grave harm to the great hopes and the progress of this country that it will be condemned by generations to come. 
-The rash and intemperate contribution of  Senator MacGibbon  on this very important matter does not do him any credit, nor does it do credit to the cause for which he is a very strong lobbyist. I should like to draw attention to the fact that a matter such as this should be dealt with more fully in the Senate in a full scale debate, because it is a continuing problem that this country faces and it will not be resolved by the type of debate and the type of contribution that  Senator MacGibbon  has just made. However, I should like to point out that the lobby for the rapid development of uranium mining in Australia is a very strong one. Very big vested interests are involved in it; the same interests that would promote the exploitation of uranium indiscriminately are the same people who right throughout history have used human beings, have used people up to the limit, and have thrown them on the scrap heap without any responsibilities. That has been the whole history of mining. 

 Senator MacGibbon referred to coal mining. Of course the coal miners have been exploited throughout the years. Of course the industry has never put back what it has drawn out of it, and it has used up the human element to its fullest extent. I would say that the issue that we see here is a matter of blatant lobbying which is being carried out by honourable senators on the Government side for the uranium interests, these people who stand to make millions or billions of dollars out of this industry without the necessary basic preparation for the nuclear era and the accidents that are happening all over the world. 
The statement by  Senator Coleman  at page 363 of  Hansard  on 29 August indicates that right throughout the whole area of development of the uranium industry and of nuclear power generation these accidents are happening, and there is a tremendous amount of basic work still to be done. If the industry is to develop, it is a matter of hastening slowly, very slowly, because there are factors involved in this new era, this new dimension, despite the claim of  Senator MacGibbon  of all the knowledge and that anyone who opposes him is ignorant. It is just like his impudence to take that stand. I should also like to draw attention to the fact that because we are opposed to the immediate mining and processing of Australia's vast uranium deposits does not mean that we will always oppose the development of nuclear energy. We need to have a policy that acknowledges that some very difficult problems will have to be resolved, especially those related to the storage and disposal of radioactive wastes.  Senator MacGibbon  knows very well the problem in relation to the disposal of radioactive wastes. We are finding problems of stealth, of dishonesty, by the uranium people who are trying to cover up when they know that this great problem exists and will not tell the public of the situation. These people do not care about human life and the environment, because there is a fast buck in it if they can get away with it. They do not care about the consequences not only for the present but also as to the half life of this substance and its damage to the environment in the future. 
I want to refer more specifically to the mining of uranium. For too long we have allowed the industry to neglect the matter of the health of the workers in the industry, in particular the long term consequences that are now starting to show in many of these industrial processes. It has been estimated that the health records of workers pick up only 2 per cent of the occupationally related chronic diseases. Contributions that have been made in this chamber at different times have been able to refer glibly to injuries suffered in the past in underground uranium mining, but presumably they mean the high incidence of cancer in former underground uranium miners at Radium Hill in South Australia when the mine was worked during the 1950s. This should give  Senator MacGibbon  some inside knowledge of the consequences that will develop not only now but also will accelerate in the future. 
The South Australian Department of Health has recently and belatedly attempted to follow up these men to check on their health. There is a great risk of radon gas associated with the mining of uranium in open-cut mines. Radon gas is heavier than air and tends to concentrate more heavily in the lower areas of the pit floor, and the long periods without wind and the temperature inversion experienced in the Northern Territory uranium mining industries will complicate these problems. The industry will have to examine these matters right from the very basis before any of us can get up and proclaim that this is yet in a condition where we can go ahead full steam, which many of the senators on the Government side would like to see take place. 
I should like to refer to a Department of Science and the Environment assessment report on the proposed Nabarlek uranium project, dated February this year. It is said that the temperature inversions which frequently occur during the night in the Nabarlek area can lead to a build-up of radon to a pre-dawn peak concentration. We never hear  Senator MacGibbon  or any of his colleagues on that side speak on this aspect, and yet it is a source and possibly a basic cause of untold damage to the lungs and to the general health of those engaged in the industry. The code of practice on radiation protection in the mining and milling of radioactive ores adopted by the Commonwealth Department of Health sets the radiation dose limits for workers in the uranium industry. The Department of Science and the 
Environment report refers to earlier states that exposure should be kept as far below these levels as practicable. It was quoted just recently during the course of a debate in the Senate that uranium miners receive a radiation dose far below the level where there are any detectable health consequences; yet recent studies indicate that the harmful effects of low doses of radiation may be substantially greater than estimated previously. But what is meant by detectable health consequences? We know that uranium mining has been associated with a high death rate from cancer since the nineteenth century. We know that miners who smoke are especially at risk. These men will have left the industry and probably will have moved to other areas before the health consequences of uranium mining become apparent. 
I should like to refer to a report which has been presented recently by the Federated Miscellaneous Workers Union of Australia who have responsibility in this area. I want to commend the union for its concern for its members working at the Nabarlek and Ranger uranium mines. This union is commissioned to report on the radiation monitoring of the mines, and one would hope that the companies concerned would act immediately on its recommendations. Many of the points raised in the report are disturbing. How could any company ensure that the workers whose future health is at stake will follow safety procedures, when the induction course booklet at one mine contained no information on the hazards of radiation and was pitched at a level more suitable for engineers or other professional people? From the recommendations of the Report, it seems to me to be absolutely essential that a central register of uranium workers be kept so that their future health can be monitored. I realise the problems associated with an industry where men might be working under false names and have no wish for their future whereabouts to be traceable, but they should be advised that they might later develop cancer and that they are entitled to compensation. 
I raise these matters because of the attitude that has been taken by  Senator Young  and  Senator MacGibbon-  that this industry will go ahead regardless of the consequences to the human element associated with the production of uranium and the development of nuclear power. It is an unknown quantity; it is an area in which we need to have the greatest caution. It is a power that can be turned to the greatest use for mankind if it is used in the way that we would like to see it used- with the greatest respect and concern for those who are associated in the industry. A loud word of warning should be sounded about those people who would advocate the helter skelter, go ahead regardless of the consequences policy that the very powerful financially well equipped uranium lobbyists are influencing so many people in this place to believe. They would like to pull the wool over the eyes of the Australian public by saying that all is well in the industry. 
The history of nuclear power so far is a reflection on the fact that the scientists are prepared to subvert the great ideals that they have held in the past for the sake of a fast buck. They are selling their principles. As long as I am able to stand in my place and warn people against the hazards and dangers of uranium and nuclear power generation, I intend to do so. It is for that purpose that I have made these comments- to counter the lobbyists who rose in the chamber tonight to try to push out a story that is completely untrue and unsubstantiated. 
I refer to the Department of Industrial Relations summary, and the item Australian Trade Union Training Authority. Over a period of several months I had occasion to raise a matter which concerned trade union training in Tasmania. Letters were circulated which said that I had misrepresented the situation and had attacked a Tasmanian senator. I would like this matter to be tidied up by the Department. The Tasmanian Auditor-General said that more than $7,000 was paid to the Tasmanian Trade Union Training 
Account by the national body, the Australian Trade Union Training Authority, without vouchers.  I  would like an inquiry to be made into the reason why no vouchers were available to the Auditor-General in Tasmania.  I  wish to put in the record a letter that was written on this matter on 17 October by the Tasmanian Minister for Education, Recreation and the Arts to the Secretary of the Tasmanian Trades and Labour Council. He said: 
Dear  Mr Watling, 
Discussions between you and officers of my Department indicate that trade union training courses in this State ceased in early 197S, nearly four years ago. Although you have produced general proposals for future training, these are far from being anything but at the development stage in terms of specific courses. 
There have been no programmes of training since 1976, despite the fact of continuing State Government funds for extended trade union training beyond that provided by the Commonwealth. Costs totalling $33,063.50 incurred up till 1 976 have been reimbursed by the Commonwealth. 
In view of these fans the Government requests you to return to me the sum of $43,326.69, currently held in the Tasmanian Trade Union Training Accounts Nos. 1 and 2. 
I would appreciate receiving your cheque for this amount as soon as possible. 
Yours sincerely, 
Harry Holgate Minister for Education, Recreation and the Arts 
I  would like the Department to examine the lack of vouchers for the sum of more than $7,000 referred to and, if possible, cause an audited report to be made as to the relationship between the Tasmanian Trade Union Training Account and the Australian Trade Union Training Authority. 
During the course of this debate I asked the Minister representing the Minister for Industrial Relations a question relating to some funds in Tasmania which were the subject of the report of the Auditor-General in Tasmania,  Mr Nichols.  In his report the Auditor-General said: 
The audit of the accounts of the Training Programme for the period 2 1st January 1974 to 28th February 1979 resulted in the following form of qualified certificate: 
As required by Section 32 of the Audit Act 1918, the Accounts of the Tasmanian Trade Union Training Programme for the period 21st January 1974 to 28th February 1 V79 have been submitted for my examination. 
The accounting procedures were not up to the standard which I normally expect and my certificate to the Statement is qualified to the extent that expenditure of $7,949 was not supported by vouchers. 
I ask the Minister whether he would have his departmental officers examine that situation. A relationship exists between the Tasmanian Trade Union Training account and the Australian Trade Union Training Authority. That is a matter that I have raised here previously.  Senator Harradine  has made all sorts of accusations against me. I did not mention any of the matters that he raised. I asked a simple question. I pointed out that in a letter from the Minister the amount of $43,326 was to be returned to the State Government as requested. It was held in the Tasmanian Trade Union Training accounts No. 1 and No. 2. If I could obtain that information I would be very grateful. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 8 May 1979: 
1 ) Have calculations been made as to the extent to which the Government's 40 per cent investment allowance contributed to the over-supply of heavy transport units to the road transport industry, as a result of borrowings from financial institutions. 
Was any use made of statistics available after the first year of operation of the 40 per cent investment allowance to assess its effect on the industry, particularly motor vehicle registration figures and the number of repossessions by finance organisations. 
Will the Government refer this matter to the Campbell Committee of Inquiry into Financial Institutions. 
