My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. It refers to the proposed means test for pensioners over 70 years of age. The Minister may recall answering a question recently and stating that the proposal was pure speculation. Is the Minister able to explain why the Government decided to adopt such a retrograde policy? I also ask whether the Minister can inform the Senate of the estimated number of pensioners affected and the probable revenue from the new policy. 

 - Mr President, please accept my congratulations on your re-election as  President  of this chamber. In this, my maiden speech in the Australian Senate, I must begin by placing on record my thanks to my supporters, especially those in the Labor movement. I feel honoured to be an elected representative of South Australia, which I consider to be one of the best States in the Commonwealth, and to be a member of the oldest and biggest political movement in Australia- the Australian Labor Party. It is a party which for over three-quarters of a century has stood for the ideals and aspirations of the Australian people. It has been represented in Parliament by people who stood for the ideals and aspirations of the working class. Forces against that Party have made sure that it has not received the recognition which it deserves. I must place on record my thanks to my wife and family for their encouragement and help, and especially for their inspiration. My colleagues in the Waterside Workers Federation and the Australian Labor Party also deserve my gratitude for their encouragement over the years. I wish to record my respect for the man whom I have succeeded in this place, former  Senator Donald  Cameron. He is a man of great honesty and sincerity. I am sure that I and many others will benefit from his continued advice. 

 Mr President, I come into the Senate at a most challenging time for Australia. It is a time when our system of government is under many pressures. Our Federal Constitution is outdated and failing. It was formulated at the start of the century and it has failed to adjust to the changes of a developing nation. Recently there was a conference to discuss constitutional matters at which only certain interests had representation. The whole of the Australian population should be concerned and involved in the planning of the Constitution. One way this could be achieved is by open debate in all Federal electorates. Each district electorate office, with additional staff, could then gather and organise the information and report its findings and recommendations to a special referendum committee. I stress that these matters are the concern of all the people and should, therefore, be dealt with on non-political lines. This, I believe, is true democracy. 
Governments in the past have been concerned with piecemeal solutions to our national problems. There has been too much emphasis on short term planning of the economy. Each year people wait anxiously for the Budget to be brought down. Too often mini-Budgets are brought in at the drop of a hat. It is impossible under these ad hoc policies for any worker or the public or private sector to plan ahead with any real confidence. Each political party discloses its policies to the people at election time. There should be a moral obligation for the elected government to carry out without changes its expressed policies until the next election. This is a time when the Australian people are being subjected to hardships and uncertainties, resulting in many cases in the breakdown of the family structure. There is an ever-present fear of unemployment and a fear of being without. This fear affects people from the top executive to the youngest apprentice, if a young person is lucky enough to be an apprentice. Is it any wonder that we see so much social upheaval in the community? Marriage breakdowns, crime, suicide, child delinquency and other ills are brought about by insecurity. Is it any wonder that politicians have a poor image? 
If Australia is to be a great nation- and I believe it can be- we should be trying to solve our present problems and planning for a future with the many technological changes taking place. 
Until now we have accepted technological changes without any real planning. We have drifted along, accepting changes as they come. I am not opposed to technological changes, but any change that does not take the present and future workers into account is bad and unacceptable to the Australian people. Governments, employers and unions should all be involved in forward planning. Where new technology is to be introduced, automation should be so organised that it benefits not only the workers in a particular industry but the community as a whole. Machines will never buy machines. 
An illustration of the change that can occur is that of the Port Adelaide waterfront where I have worked. In 1952, 2,500 men were employed. Today there are 565, and employers recently declared a further redundancy of 65 men. The last two intakes of men took place in 1965 and 1967. The men recruited in 1967 became compulsorily redundant in the early 1970s under the first permanency agreement. Containerisation was introduced, but it has not benefited anyone. The cost of transport has continually risen and the purchaser pays more for goods despite the fact that the throughput has increased threefold. When containerisation was discussed the Waterside Workers Federation put forward a submission that Australia would be better served by unitised roll-on roll-off ships than by the pure container ships. Under the second permanency agreement hours of work were reduced to 35 per week, four weeks annual leave was achieved and there was no compulsory redundancy clause. But no new recruits have been drawn into the work force. The youngest men still working are those who were employed in 1965. These figures show that when new technology replaces workers it does so for all time. They also show that proper planning is needed by all concerned with an industry if our young people are ever to have the opportunity to work. People must be given the right to work. 
I said earlier that Australia could be a great nation, but if it is to achieve this great nationhood Australia must belong to Australians. There are two ways of conquering a country. One is by the force of arms and the other is by financial takeover. If a government refused to give an order to its armies to resist invading forces it would have to be considered traitorous. What then do we call governments which allow their country to be taken over by foreign interests and foreign investors? I am concerned that transnationals are acquiring an ever-increasing share of our mineral resources, industry, commerce and the very land itself. With the huge profits flowing out of this country, Australia can never hope to manage its own affairs; it will always be dominated by foreign investors who hold the purse strings. 
We often hear the argument that transnationals provide employment. Let us look at this argument. In 1976 the Utah mining company made a profit of $137m with a work force of 3,000. In the same year the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd made a profit of $63.5m with a work force of 60,000. The Australian investors who paid the Utah company $ 1 70m for their 20 per cent share certainly helped the company onto its feet. To add insult to injury, the company employs foreign seamen on foreign vessels to take away Australian coal. It is high time that contracts with transnationals were written to benefit Australia and the Australian people. Senate committees have carried out valuable inquiries into many varied subjects. I hope that in the near future a Senate committee will be set up solely to look into the question of foreign ownership of Australian resources. Political parties will never agree on many issues but one thing we should all agree on is that as Australians we must work for the good of this country, not only for this generation but also for future generations. 
Efficient land, sea and air transport for the movement of people, goods and raw materials is essential for the development of any nation. This is particularly so in Australia where large, sparsely populated areas are separated by long distances. As part of our forward planning we should be concentrating now on our future transport needs, keeping in mind that world oil supplies are expected to become scarce and very costly within the next 10 years. We should be working out ways of conserving our present stocks of oil and supplementing the supplies with alternative forms of energy. I would like to see liquid petroleum gas more readily available to consumers in Australia and sales tax exemptions on equipment necessary for the conversion of vehicles to the use of LP gas. Now is the time for the Federal Government to fund pilot schemes in the use of vegetable matter such as sugar cane and other renewable sources of energy. 
There has been general agreement on the need to standardise rail gauges. This work must be accelerated. Unfortunately, many so-called uneconomic rail lines have been closed at a time when there should be a re-assessment of their possible future use. At present we are depending far too much on road transport for long distance haulage without any thought being given to the amount of oil being used. Electrification of busy interstate, country and suburban rail transport should be considered. For the not so busy lines steam turbine engines using powdered coal should be developed to replace the present diesels. If planning in this area of transport is not begun soon our primary producers will face prohibitive costs and will find it impossible to compete on world markets. For an efficient, economic service, all rail transport should be controlled by the Australian National Railways. The Federal Government must help to fund and encourage the development in all States of public transport powered by electricity. The electric car being developed in the Flinders University in Adelaide is one area where Federal funding is now urgently needed. 
A joint committee on defence recommended that the Australian shipbuilding industry be retained. Unfortunately, this advise was ignored and we saw the closure of the Whyalla and Newcastle shipyards. An efficient maritime industry is essential not only for the defence of this country but also generally for an island continent, and it is absolutely necessary to meet our transport needs. We should be designing and building our own ships, ships for the future that will use not oil but probably powdered coal. I remind the Senate that this technology already has been developed. In the next decade there is a possibility that our oil supplies will have to be reserved entirely for aircraft although in the aviation industry also there is too much fuel wasted. Flight times are almost identical for the two airlines and the aircraft on many flights are not filled. Fair and reasonable agreements to benefit the airlines and the travelling public must be made to reduce the cost of air travel and the consumption of fuel. 
Australia should be looking into the idea of bringing icebergs to this country. Eventually water will be one of our very scarce commodities and if the Federal Government does not become involved in the development of technology that is being undertaken by many countries, Australia will pay very dearly in the very near future. We certainly will need to use this resource and one of the tragedies is that we are not participating in its development. 
The matters I have raised are important for the future development of Australia. They can be successfully implemented only if Federal and State governments, employers and unions cooperate and are involved in the planning and carrying out of the various schemes. If all sections of the community work together, better progress will be achieved. Needless union bashing benefits no one. Finally, I would like to thank you,  Mr President,  for arranging and conducting the familiarisation sessions for the new senators in July. They were most valuable and I hope that such sessions will be continued in years to come. 
My question, directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer, is in reference to a meeting held in Adelaide on 30 August between the Treasurer,  Mr Howard,  and representatives of the brandy industry.  Mr Howard  is reported as saying that he would have discussions with his colleagues in Canberra about a reversal of the Budget decision to increase the brandy excise savagely. I ask the Minister: Have these discussions yet taken place and, if so, what is the outcome? 
-Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Finance been drawn to the United States Government report that solar power will be able to supply 20 per cent of America's needs by the year 2000? Is he aware that the United States Congress is strongly backing the further development of solar energy and that the United States Government is planning to give tax credits up to $2,000 for the installation of domestic solar heating units? Would the Minister consider making similar tax deductions to Australians who are willing to incorporate solar units in their homes? 
-We of the Opposition do not oppose this Bill, but that does not mean that we agree that the Government is doing sufficient for the homeless persons who require assistance. The purpose of this Bill is to extend for a further 12 months certain provisions of the Homeless Persons Assistance Act. I believe that there is to be further consultation with the States and the people who assist in administering this Act in relation to the assistance given to homeless people. This Act came into operation in 1974. Since then it has been of tremendous benefit to the homeless people who require assistance. In the past those people have been mainly men of approximately 45 years of age, but because of the great stress which has been placed on this community recently, especially by this Government, and the insecurity that has arisen there has been a tendency for this situation to change. The average age of those seeking assistance most certainly has been lower. As I said, in 1974 men of approximately 45 years of age were the main beneficiaries of this Act, whereas more and more young people are now becoming homeless and destitute. Women are now to be found in this category, whereas previously it was confined to men. 

 Senator Walters stated on Tuesday night that the problem has arisen mainly in the cities and not in the country areas. I would have to disagree with that statement. For example, great social upheavals have occurred at Whyalla because of this Government's refusal to give assistance to the shipbuilding industry and the closing down of that industry. I have spoken about this matter to the staff of the St Vincent de Paul Society in that area. Before the closure of the Whyalla shipyards, they had quite large reserves of the furniture, bedding and equipment needed to help people in distressed circumstances. A number of people have left Whyalla and a number of homes are available in the area but, because the call for assistance is arising continually as more and more people in the area have become unemployed, the reserves of furniture, bedding and equipment have been depleted and there is virtually none available for helping people. It was put to me that the Federal Government should help in this regard by transporting furniture and goods free of cost, through the Australian National Railways, from Adelaide to Whyalla so that assistance can be extended to the people in the area who are in need. Because of government intervention and the excise duty on brandy many people in the Riverland area also feel very insecure in this regard. 
In a situation where there is insecurity one gets family arguments and family problems. There is a tendency now for breakups to occur among families whose breadwinner is insecure because he does not know from one day to the next whether his livelihood is in jeopardy or whether he has a job. Alcoholism is also one of the results of insecurity in employment. I predict that, because of the excise that has been imposed and because the growers in the Riverland area cannot sell their grapes, there will be great pressures on families there and family breakups will occur. 
More and more young people are homeless. I refer to children, both girls and boys, of the tender ages of 10, 11 or 12 years, who have run away from home because of the continual arguments and the tragedies that tend to occur when the breadwinner is in fear of losing his livelihood. Insecurity has created terrible upset in our community. The Federal Government is not providing sufficient funding to help these people. Often government inaction itself has brought about these situations. The help provided by various organisations, often religious, has been of tremendous benefit, but they can recover from the Government only 25c for every meal they supply and only 75c for every bed they supply. That is an intolerable situation. 
Provision is made for the salary of social workers to be subsidised to the extent of 50 per cent only. This area of activity is increasing and there is a real need for more social workers to overcome the many problems that are presented. Ideally, there should not be as many homeless persons as there are, but the only way to cure that is to create security within the Australian working life. Given security, people will act responsibly. 
I said earlier that we do not oppose the Bill, but I believe that further assistance should be given to people who are destitute. The church and other organisations which have assisted people in need in the community should be supported. That is the only way in which this problem will be overcome. If people were given job security- and there is no reason why in Australia they could not be- we would not have the problem that we face today. It is tragic to think that very young people, through no fault of their own but because of the great social upheaval in the community, are being forced out on to the streets. Certainly, that is no way to start a life. We should increase the degree of government help in overcoming this problem. No provision has been made to look after very young people and I believe that that aspect too should receive consideration. Also, assistance in the transportation to country areas of furniture and goods is desperately needed. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Is it a fact that the operations of the Australian Bureau of Statistics have been severely curtailed as a result of the staffing policies of" the Government and its failure to authorise replacement of obsolete Bureau equipment? Can the Minister tell the Senate what work of the Bureau relating to the State of South Australia has been or will be abandoned or reduced in scope as a consequence? 
-Will the Minister representing the Minister for Defence tell the Senate of all the locations in South Australia where uranium by-products and other radioactive materials have been buried? Is it a fact that quantities of such materials are buried in the western suburbs of Adelaide? What checks are being kept on all locations to determine the safety of these materials to the people of South Australia? 
Probably the worst aspect of this legislation is the unfairness to employees who have worked for long periods and, through no fault of their own, have been forced to accrue annual leave. I have some tables here from which I will read later on. Often it is the case that employers have coerced, encouraged or begged employees to forgo taking their annual leave and in many industries this is what happens. From 1 5 August the tax payable on long service leave lump sum payments will be at the rate of 33½ per cent whereas previously tax was paid on only five per cent of the amount received. Such long service leave payments received before 15 August will still be taxed in respect of only five per cent of the amount received, but after that date will be taxed at the rate of 33½ per cent. Tax payable on annual leave payments will be at the rate of33½ per cent. The taxation of payments for unused annual leave is estimated to produce a gain to revenue of $70m in 1978-79 and $100m in a full year. The change in the method of taxing long service leave payments is expected to result in a revenue gain of $6m in 1978-79. 
The accumulation of annual leave and long service leave in many cases owes its existence not to any intention on the part of a worker not to take his long service leave but to pressures placed on him not to take it. Many employees have not been able to take their long service leave because their employers have asked them not to, and this occurs in quite a number of industries. A survey of annual leave by the Australian Bureau of Statistics in 1974- they were the only statistics I could come up with- revealed that workers employed in the construction, wholesale, retail, recreation, hotel, restaurant and agricultural industries were particularly hard hit in respect of taking leave. Of the 4.8m employees in those industries in 1974, 40 per cent had not taken any leave between August 1973 and July 1974. Later I will ask that this table be incorporated in  Hansard;  I have asked  Senator Carrick  about it. It is a table prepared by the Australian Bureau of Statistics at August 1974 and shows the percentage of people in various industries who did not take leave in the year surveyed. The survey revealed that 71.5 per cent of all people employed in the agricultural, forestry and fishing industries in that year did not take annual leave. In the entertainment, recreation, restaurant, hotel and personal service industries 64 per cent of employees did not take their leave. The survey also showed that 42 per cent of people in the construction industry, 46 per cent of employees in the wholesale and retail industries, 47.7 per cent of employees in the transport and storage industries, and 32 per cent of employees in the communications industry did not take leave. 
It is worthwhile looking at the reasons why people did not take their leave. I believe that people should take their annual leave- it is necessary and right that they do- but in some industries it is impossible for them to do it because of the conditions that prevail in those industries. I refer to people working in the agricultural industries. Undoubtedly farmers employ people who  at certain times of the year would find it impossible to go on leave simply because a crop may have to be saved, there may be a bush fire or there may be all sorts of reasons. In the hotel industry all of a sudden after a slack period there may be a large booking for a convention or a show. The manager or the owner of that establishment would ask his employees to defer their leave. It is not entirely a worker's fault that he did not take his leave. What happens to a person who has stored up his annual leave because at times it was virtually impossible for him to take it? Before I go any further I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  the table to which I referred. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 


<graphic href="078232197810126_24_3.jpg"></graphic>

-I thank the Committee. What happens to the person who has not taken his annual leave for four years? If he gets four weeks' annual leave he would accrue 16 weeks' leave.  Senator Chaney  answered  Senator Townley  on this point yesterday, but this point is rather unclear in the Bill. If a person retires in July 1979 with 16 weeks' annual leave owing to him, if he were earning $200 a week, he would have a lump sum of $3,200 coming to him. If he retired, got the sack or for some reason finished working for his employer three weeks after 1 July he would have $3,800 owing to him in the 1979-80 financial year. That amount is $94 less than the sum at which a single person begins to pay taxation. At what stage would he have to pay 33V4 per cent on that income? 
-That is unclear. That would be on a pay-as-you-earn basis. I cannot  see this provision in the Bill. As I see it, the Commissioner of Taxation will tax the man on his accrued annual leave at the rate of  33¥i  per cent. 
I cannot see that set out. I think there is in this clause some doubt that should be entirely cleared up. This provision is unjust. A person works for a lifetime and in the last, say, 10 years of his working life he may accrue his long service leave and annual leave. In the past many people have done this simply because in all their working lives they have never had the opportunity to enjoy, say, an overseas trip or some particular thing that they have wanted to do. I think that this Bill has done much damage. A lot of Government senators have said that they have not received any opposition to it. I can assure them that I have had some opposition. I think that there will be a great deal of opposition after the legislation comes into effect. This is an unjust measure. It is mean and miserable. We should be encouraging people who have worked a lifetime in industries. A lot of young people are looking at what is going on today and asking: 'Why should I work? Why should I enter this rat race?' We give no encouragement to the people who should work, but we should. 
The Government criticised the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission because it grants pay rises following cost of living increases. All that this will do is to force unions to go outside the Commission to increase the incomes of their workers. It will cause a whole rush of things. I believe that this measure is unjust and the Government should have a serious look at its ramifications. 
-I present the following petition from 465 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That any downgrading or closures of Country Rail Services in South Australia would have grave consequences for the Railway Industry, Primary Industry, Individual Country Communities and the State as a whole and calls on the Parliament to ensure that the Federal Minister for Transport takes the necessary action to maintain all existing services. 
That continued and increased Public Subsidy is fully justified in the long term National Interest. 
Petition received and read. 
-Has the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations seen a Press article alleging that some employers are abusing the Special Youth Employment Training Program? Is he aware of a report in the Adelaide  Advertiser  of 2 1 October of statements by the Secretary of the South Australian Trades and Labour Council and the Manager of Key Personnel Pty Ltd that some employers are dismissing permanent staff and young people who have completed the six months training and working program to take on new labour under the employment training scheme? Will the Minister have these allegations investigated and, if they are found to be correct, take action to penalise the employers who are abusing the scheme and using young people as cheap, temporary labour? 
-Does the Minister for Science agree with the conclusions reached by the Alcohol Fuels Conference held in Sydney on 9 to 1 1 August 1978 that liquid petroleum gas, methanol and ethanol are important alternative fuels for Australia? Has the Government any plans for setting up a co-ordinating body involving government departments, universities and industry, to undertake a feasibility study into a national alcohol fuel program? 
Is the Minister for Social Security aware that many pensioners, with very little warning, have suffered extreme hardship because their allowable income has increased by as little as $ 1 or $2 a week, sometimes without their knowledge, and that as a consequence their pensioner medical benefit cards have been taken from them? Is the Minister also aware that in some cases pensioners have had to pay back remissions on telephone accounts as well as other benefits provided by the respective State governments? Will the Minister see that the Department of Veterans' Affairs and the Department of Social Security give these pensioners adequate notice that their fringe benefits are to be withdrawn so that they can assess their financial positions in an endeavour to meet the full amount of their future commitments? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 20 September 1 978: 
How many persons in each State and Territory have been denied Australian citizenship in each year from 1969-70 to 1977-78, because of insufficient knowledge of the English language. 
-Has the Minister representing the Minister for Health seen an article in a recent issue  of Hemisphere  magazine stating that a new medicine, vitex cannabifolia volatile, an extract of a herb, is successful in treating bronchitis, asthma and other respiratory complaints? Can the Minister say whether this medicine is available in Australia and whether it is widely used by the medical profession? 
I rise in the hope that this Government will reconsider at this late stage doing something for the returned servicemen and servicewomen who have served this country. I remind honourable senators of what the Repatriation Act of 1919 really meant. The Repatriation Act was framed with the promise and assurance that a war pension for disability with any accrued or fringe benefit would be granted for life and would never be withdrawn. War pensions were to remain free of income tax and free of any income and /or means test. Whether rich or poor, and irrespective of rank, all servicemen were to be treated as being equal. War pensions were never to be emasculated in any way. War pensions were never to be interfered with or manipulated for political gain to any political party that came to power. War pensions were to be a gift from the nation, an ex-serviceman's right, and were to be for life. These words were said by the late  Senator Millen  in 1 9 1 9. 
This is the first Government that has dared to interfere with this gift from the nation to the people who have served this country over many years in all theatres of war and I believe that it was despicable for this Government to break the promise that was given to these people who did so much. Many of these people have suffered injuries and now in the twilight of their lives have to pay taxation on their war pensions and have to be means tested. The whole balance of their lives has been upset. Something should be done about this situation even at this late stage. Over many years this country has faced many trials and tribulations. It has been through depressions, it has been through wars, but no government has ever felt it necessary before to break with tradition- to break this great promise that was given to these people. I believe that the Government's action was in the worst of traditions and the Government certainly must hang its head in shame for what it has done to the people who have fought for this country. We would not be here as senators tonight but for these people and I believe that what the Government has done is an absolute disgrace. 
It is nothing for this Government to break promises. One of the first things that I was educated to do as a very young person was to keep a promise that I made but this Government most certainly has gone back on every word, on every tradition and on everything that has been of value. This Government has betrayed those traditions and I believe that it does not do it or any government any good to break promises made in respect of the gift of a nation to the people who have served it. In answer to a question I asked last week about fringe benefits,  Senator Guilfoyle  said: 
I am unaware that any specific problem has arisen with fringe benefits. Of course, fringe benefit entitlement is dependent on other income. The limit of $33 a week in the case of a single person has not been changed for some time. I understand that some pensioners, through superannuation or other payments over which they have no control, may receive more than the limit. To suggest that those pensioners are not aware that fringe benefits are means tested I think is not a statement of fact. 
I have never told an untruth either inside or outside this place. I have documented, photostated, evidence that people have had to pay back their telephone concessions. I refer to a Captain Ted Hipkins who served this country in a theatre of war. He has lost his wife and his income is just a little over what it should be for him to obtain fringe benefits. He has had to pay back his telephone concession. I have a document which states that he has to pay back $1 1. 18 and this will be the situation for the next three months. He also had to pay back water and sewerage rate remissions. He is receiving only a few dollars more than the means test allows. Never before in his life has he been means tested. That is a terrible thing. There are some people who do not realise that their income exceeds by a few cents what the means test allows. This situation has arisen because interest rates have gone up and they have been unaware of it. This position may have gone on for 12 months and now these people are forced into destitution as a result. I do not believe that it has done this Government any credit to take these benefits away from the ex-servicemen and ex-servicewomen who have served this country. This Government is the only government which has done so. 
We in this country have faced many hardships and past governments have never sought to take away the benefits that were given as a gift by this nation to the people who have served the country. It is about time that promises made by this Government were honoured and kept. Although I think it is futile for me to do so, I ask the Minister to reconsider this matter. I believe that every ex-serviceman and ex-servicewoman who has served in this country should most certainly be up in arms about the matter. At the next election, they will have a voice in the matter. Most certainly, we on this side of the Parliament will be raising the matter and reminding the people of this Government's betrayal of them. I do not believe that its action has served any good purpose. 
-I wish to comment on the proposed expenditure on railways. In South Australia quite a number of lines have been closed or are proposed for closing. In the main, this is simply because of the need to balance the deficit to the extent of some 20 per cent.  Mr Dyason,  the General Manager of the Australian National Railways Commission admitted publicly that a direction had come from the Federal Government that the Commission must consider ways and means by which the target set by the Federal Government could be achieved. 
Already, passenger services between Adelaide and Tailem Bend, Naracoorte, Kingston, Peterborough and Broken Hill have been cancelled. Freight services between Tailem Bend, Pinnaroo, Barmera and Waikerie have been reduced. Services beyond Clare and Nuriootpa on the Truro line have also been cancelled. It may be said that some of these lines are uneconomical, but I do not believe that for the long term it is good policy simply to close lines because of that fact. The long term view should be that possibly, in 10 or IS years time, fuel will be costly and scarce. If rail services in Australia are continually reduced or cancelled, certainly people who live in the rural sector will face great difficulties. It is doubtful whether they will get their crops and produce to market. I say that simply because I believe that if the only means of transporting goods from the country to the seaboard were to be by road, that form of transport would most certainly prove to be too expensive. I believe that we will have to go back to rail. As I have said, there is a possibility at the present time that some of these lines are uneconomic. It is possible that some of them are geographically situated in bad positions. I do not believe that it is good simply or out of hand to cancel or reduce the services on many of these lines. I believe that what Australia should do is have an overall look at its future transport needs. If it is found that lines are situated in bad positions, they should be relocated. Lines that are not up to standard should be brought up to standard. I believe that when the fuel energy crisis hits this country, unless we have done something about our transport system it will be too late. If Australia is to be a large exporting nation, especially of rural products, we should have a serious look at the whole of our transportation system. 
There have been representations by me and many other senators from South Australia to the Minister for Transport,  Mr Nixon,  asking him to hold his hand on the predicted closure of some of the lines especially the Peterborough to Quorn and Gladstone to Wilmington railway lines. We asked  Mr Nixon  whether he would notify all the people concerned. When I say 'all the people' I mean that there should be full consultation with the unions and the people in the areas and the towns, including the business people. The closure of these lines will have grave social consquences for country areas. I believe that unless there is full consultation many people will be hurt and many people with businesses will not be able to continue to function. 
I believe that there have to be guarantees to the farming communities. If there is any doubt about the future cost of transporting rural products to the seaboard, there has to be a full investigation of the costing not just at the present moment but also in future years. It is hopeless for any rural sector to develop land and industries in those areas unless there is some indication of what the costs are going to be, especially in transportation. It is a tragedy just to close the lines haphazardly, without a great deal of planning. I do not believe at this stage that sufficient numbers of people in the community have been brought in to look at the whole question. I think that is necessary. I ask the Government to reexamine its postion in regard to closing some of these lines. As I said, many people depend on those industries. In some of those rural sectors, in the provincial towns, there are a lot of people  employed in repairing, manufacturing and maintaining rail lines and rolling stock. 
A few months ago the Australian National Railways decided that it would not employ apprentices this year. When representations were made it changed its mind on that. Now it is looking to employing a reduced number of apprentices. Just closing the lines and leaving transportation to private enterprise is not in the best interests of the community. Many of the roads in rural areas have not been designed to carry large trucks heavily laden with wheat and wool and all the other produce of the country. We should be looking at the dangers. There are dangers, and they should be taken into account. If the lines are closed in many of these areas and heavy vehicles have to travel to and fro, bringing the goods to the seaboard, many of these roads will have to be rebuilt. I think it would be better at this stage to have a complete look at the whole of our transportation system. 
I ask the Government to reconsider some of these points. I impress this on the Government and the Minister: Before any lines are closed they should have full and frank discussions with everyone involved- the trade union movement, the local councils, the business people and other sections of the community. It is essential that the people be satisfied and helped to know where they will be going in the future. If that is not done, there will be too much uncertainty and many industries in the areas concerned will have no faith to improve businesses and properties. 
-Has the Minister representing the Minister for Transport seen a report in today's  Australian  newspaper stating that Qantas Airways Ltd will be banned from flying to the United States unless Continential Airlines Inc. is allowed to land in Australia and that the Federal Government has decided to back down on its opposition to the Continental Airlines application to fly to Australia? I also ask the Minister: If this report is correct, who does he think is running this country? Is it the Australian Government or foreign investors? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. I refer the Minister to the statutory requirement that knowledge of the English language be a prerequisite for Australian citizenship. I refer also to the fact that, in 1976-77, 427 persons were denied citizenship on this ground and that, in 1977-78, the number was 694. Is it not a fact that this discriminatory policy often bars persons who have worked, lived and paid taxes in Australia for lengthy periods? Is it not also true that this policy discriminates against communities, especially the Greek and Italian communities? In view of the discriminatory and iniquitous nature of this policy, will the Government undertake to review it? 
-I am amazed at the disregard that this Government has shown for the brandy industry. I believe that if we look at just what governments have done to the brandy industry we will be amazed that it even exists today. I remind the 
Senate that in six years it has paid $136,715,634 in taxation. This tax has come from an industry which is based primarily in one small area of South Australia. Nearly 90 per cent of the Australian brandy industry is in that area. In 1972-73 the industry paid duty of $3.08 per litre of brandy. For 1978-79 the duty is to be $18.09 per litre of brandy alcohol. This industry has never sought assistance from governments or anyone. It is one of the few remaining primary industries that is not subsidised. I believe that it is a complete rip-off for any government to do what this Government is doing to the industry. The brandy industry, unlike any other industry, cannot survive sudden changes. It takes at least three years to get a reasonable grape crop from new vines. Some of the other spirit industries that use grain can alter their structures within 12 months, but the brandy industry, which relies on the use of grapes, cannot do this. Consequently, the grapes have been grown for brandy production. 
I was interested to hear  Senator Teague  say that we could hold an inquiry probably early next year. If this Bill is passed tonight, I believe that this industry will be entirely finished. If the growers cannot sell their product they have no alternative but to pull out the grape vines and plant something that is salable. It is estimated that this year there will be a surplus of between 35,000 and 40,000 tonnes of grenache and doradillo grapes, which are specially grown for the brandy industry and which cannot be used in any other industry. They cannot be used in wine production. Last year some growers dried them and sold them to the cake manufacturing industry, but this only had the tendency to upset the dried fruit industry. If more growers dry some of these grapes which are grown primarily for the brandy industry, it will have disastrous effects on the dried fruit industry. I am certain that you,  Mr President,  are well aware of this.  Senator Teague  was reported in the  Murray Pioneer  to have said in his maiden speech - 
-This Press release was sent there. He is reported to have said: 
How can I be credible as a Liberal and as a senator if the facts being as they are I do not voice the strongest protest? 
-That is what the honourable senator said. He continued: 
I have not yet been assured by anyone as to how this catastrophe will be avoided, but it must be avoided. 
-Yes, I can see that the honourable senator is assured.  Senator Teague  stated that he was opposed to this increase. He said that it was a disgrace that an 83 per cent increase in the excise on brandy would virtually destroy the industry. I certainly agree with what he said at that time. I would also like to point out at this stage that 13 million litres of brandy is being held in stock by the industry. Last year 1.855 million litres of brandy was sold. It is impossible for the industry to hold stock for more than three years, or four years at the most. With 13 million litres of brandy in stock it will be virtually impossible to process one grape in the coming season.  Senator Teague  is fully aware of that. As I stated previously, if this Bill goes through the Senate it will mean the complete destruction of this industry. In times such as those we are facing now, when there is a lack of employment and security, it is a wonder that this Government does not face up to its responsibility and try to save an industry. 
The industry has to compete with imported brandies. Many of these imported brandies are produced in areas where it is doubtful that very many grapes have been seen at all. It is unfair competition. Every litre of brandy produced by the Australian brandy industry is produced from Australian grapes. The cost of it is naturally higher than the cost of imported brandy. No one can actually prove that imported brandy is produced from grapes only. 
-The quality of Australian brandy is most certainly better. It is estimated that next year 3 1,800 tonnes of grapes will not be picked. Those grapes would have produced 2.8 million litres of brandy alcohol. Because we hold at present 13 million litres of brandy it is very doubtful whether any of those grapes will be picked for the production of brandy in the coming season. We have about five years supply. In some areas sales have been reduced by as much as 70 per cent; most certainly they have been reduced on average by 40 per cent. 
If this Bill goes through the Senate tonight it will mean the complete destruction of the brandy industry. As I have said previously, I believe that the brandy industry has never asked for help from any government, but no industry can survive with such a tax being continually levied against it. The price of brandy today is equal to the price of whisky. Unless brandy is sold at a lower price people have a tendency to drink imported Scotch whisky. 
The brandy industry most certainly will collapse. I believe that the Senate should look sincerely at this matter. For over 100 years the families of those who pioneered the development of South Australia have developed this industry. It has given a great deal of service and provided much work. A great number of people have been employed in this industry over many years. I believe that the present situation is a disgrace and this Government most certainly should re-assess its approach. Honourable senators must realise that there will be repercussions in the Murray Valley if this legislation is passed. We have already seen what happened in South Australia when this Government stopped the building of ships in Whyalla. The social consequences in that area are unbelievable. The cost must be measured not just in terms of dollars and cents. The cost of human suffering and degradation should be taken into account. What happened to the shipbuilding industry in Whyalla will happen to the grape growing industry in the Murray Valley. As I have said, families have been engaged in this industry for over a century. All the social evils will come with the problem. In addition the Government will not gain the extra revenue that it should from the increased excise because brandy sales have dropped. Also, it will have to pay unemployment benefit to the people who are thrown out of this industry and become unemployed. 
I assure honourable senators that the industry will collapse. I believe that this Government most certainly should take a second look at this matter now. It will be too late to do anything even in February of next year. Many growers are in real trouble because last season a large quantity of their red wine grapes and brandy grapes were left to rot on the vines as they could not sell them. If this happens again this year, many of these people will go out of the area and the grape growing business completely. In addition, many of the small brandy producers will want to leave this country. They will sell their brandy stocks at giveaway prices. This also will cause great problems for the bigger brandy producers. They will not be able to sell their stocks of brandy when the smaller producers are virtually giving away their brandy stocks. Most certainly, the smaller producers will be leaving this industry. That also will cause further trouble within the industry. It will have an effect that will completely crush that industry. I believe that the Senate should take stock of this situation. 
When I first became a senator I went to the Murray Valley and arranged a meeting between the growers and the brandy producers. It was I who, through the State Government, arranged a meeting of senators on both sides of the chamber to examine this matter in a non-party way in order to save this industry. It is no use  Senator Messner  nodding his head. 
-That is all right, but I think that the honourable senator ought to be a little more sincere about this matter. We should all forget party politics when considering it. We ought to be genuine in our remarks because if we cannot save industries and jobs, I do not know why we are in the Senate. I have always believed that people are more important than any other consideration. It is the people- the grape growers, the workers in these industries and the people with the expertise- we will lose. We will lose this expertise in the same way we lost the expertise from the Whyalla shipyards and other industries. I believe that we should reassess this situation. My colleague,  Senator McLaren,  has dealt with many of the other matters that I intended to raise tonight. As the hour is late, I will not deal with those matters. I ask honourable senators to think honestly about this matter at this late stage. I ask the Government to take another look at it because it will be too late to do so next year. 
The Opposition is opposed to the use of the Trade Practices Act in trying to settle industrial disputes. Is the Government trying to settle industrial disputes? What is the reason for extending the provisions of section  45 J? of  the Act? I think it is very important to think about that. In my opinion, this Government has got itself into an unsavoury mess in its legislation. The electorate is opposed to this Government, as can be seen from the results of the recent byelections. I believe that the Government intends to create trouble in the trade union movement to take the pressure off itself. That is the reason for this change in the legislation. The provisions of section  45D  have been extended primarily to stop industrial action by meat workers of the kind seen recently. There was some doubt whether old section 4SD was sufficient to enable the Government to act against industrial boycotts. 
I have been employed on the waterfront and I have had a great deal to do with the shipping of livestock from this country, especially from Port Adelaide. It is true that many unions are engaged in that export trade. They cover waterside workers, transport workers and railway workers. Members of the Australian Workers Union are also involved in that trade, which contributes a considerable amount of work to that port. Meat workers have been given guarantees and assurances that a certain proportion of the meat to be export would be killed at Australian abattoirs. Those promises and assurances have been broken. Any union has the right to defend its workers. I believe that the right to work is very important. It is the duty of a government to ensure that people have the right to work. All that these workers are doing is trying to establish that right. In the present circumstances, this Government should not introduce further legislation to bash unionists. Why should it not be trying to bring about better relations between management and labour. It knows full well that the new Act will not do that. This Bill is a deliberate attempt to create trouble. 
I also bring to the attention of honourable senators what actually will happen when a farmer tries to take action under this new legislation. These people have no experience whatsoever in arbitration or conciliation. I doubt very much whether people who are engaged in farming and who have had no experience in industrial relations can achieve a peaceful settlement in a dispute. There can be no hope of a reasonable settlement with unreasonable people who have not been trained in the field of arbitration and conciliation. Members of a union can be fined very heavily under the proposed new Act- up to a quarter of a million dollars- irrespective whether there is dissention between unions. Some unions say that the farmers have the right to export live sheep. However the meat workers want a share of the slaughtering work. Some dissatisfaction exists among unions. If and when this Government implements the provisions of this legislation and fines a union, most certainly the whole trade union movement will protect that union. Why should that not be the case? Without the protection provided by the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the unions combining forces, this Government would pick off one union at a time. I stress that if one union is touched, the whole of the trade union movement will do battle with this Government. However, there is no need for this. 
There is a better way. This Government is not following it. It should be fostering better industrial relations. There should be better understanding between the unions. I know this only too well. I was a member of the Waterside Workers Federation. It was the most turbulent of all unions in this country. The conditions that prevailed on the waterfront were deplorable. In my lifetime I have seen men die because of a lack of decent medical attention, which was impossible to get. We had to fight for everything we won. The bitterness that came out of that era was deplorable. Since 1967 the unions and management have worked together, which goes to show that it is possible. The great struggles, the bitterness and the hatred that existed have now disappeared. If a union such as the Waterside Workers Federation can work with management for the benefit of all people in the industry, it goes without saying that other industries should be looking at what has been done. Good relations between management and labour exist on the waterfront today. We trust each other. Agreements are made and kept and we have respect for each other. The provisions of section  45D  should not be extended. Lawyers have written more laws into the statute books of this country to knock unions than is the case in any other country. 
-Some lawyers, but the industrial field is a lawyers paradise. It is about time that some common sense prevailed. Unless it does, most certainly this country will not advance. Far too many academics are engaged in the field. I have been connected with industrial disputes for a long time. In my industry, the former Stevedoring Industry Authority was plagued with academics. They caused more trouble and upset in that industry than one could ever point at. It is about time that people sat around the table and had some meaningful discussion. 
-I understand the problems of the farmers also. Many of the workers in this industry understand their problems. There is no animosity between the farmers and the waterside workers. I believe that a good deal could be achieved if they could get together and talk about some of the problems that exist in the industry. The ability to export sheep from this country has meant a good deal to the farmers because they have been able to get rid of their old wethers. In the main these are the sheep that are shipped out. The food that is produced in South Australia is a big export earner too. 
During the last confrontation between the farmers and the unions I believe that members of this Parliament on the Government side deliberately inflamed the farmers to the extent that the farmers carried guns and pick axes. The unionists then retaliated. I know this only too well because I had a look at what was going on. Had that trouble lasted one more day there would have been bloodshed, and I think that would have been a deplorable situation. There is no need for such activity. As I have said, the only way to solve disputes is by sitting down and having some meaningful talks. This Government should be condemned for introducing these amendments. The legislation will be passed but whether its provisions are implemented is another question. If they are implemented I think it will be a very bad day for this country. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 12 September 1978: 
What has been the cost of recruitment campaigns for each of the Australian Army, Navy and Air Force in the financial years 1976-77, and 1977-78. 
How many persons were recruited into each of these services in both financial years as a consequence of the campaigns. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs. I refer the Minister to the continuing increase in the number of unemployed throughout Australia, and in particular to the increase in the Mount Gambier area in South Australia. Further, I refer the Minister to the commendable proposal put to the Government by the Corporation of the City of Mount Gambier, wherein it has offered to match the Federal Government in a $50,000 contribution to provide employment-creating projects in the area. I ask the Minister: Would not such a proposal have the effect of creating greatly needed employment opportunities in the Mount Gambier area? As a consequence would it not also have the effect of saving the Federal Government money which would otherwise be spent on unemployment benefit? Finally, I ask the Minister: Will the Government review its firmly held opposition to schemes such as this one, in view of the critical state of the employment market? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. I refer to the answer of the Minister for Defence in regard to radioactive waste materials in South Australia, in which he stated: 
The only locations containing radioactive waste materials in South Australia for which the Commonwealth has responsibility are Maralinga and Emu Field, both hundreds of kilometres from Adelaide and far from any permanent habitation. Access to both sites is controlled. 
I ask the Minister: What are the actual controls on access in relation to each site? Can the Minister give an assurance that no transients, including Aboriginals, enter the sites? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources. Does the Minister agree that the proposed petrochemical works in both Victoria and New South Wales would depend largely on imported feedstock for their operation? Because of the rising cost of oil and the uncertainty of supplies from the Middle East and elsewhere, can the Minister foresee difficulties for these works in the future? Because the Redcliff project would use indigenous natural resources as feedstock, would it not be to the advantage of Australia for the Government to encourage the setting up of a chemical plant at Redcliff in South Australia? Does the Minister also agree that, because the effect of the project on the balance of payments over the first 10 years of operation has been estimated to exceed $2,000m on present prices, there would be other benefits to the State and Federal governments in tax revenues? If the Redcliff proposal does not go ahead, in which case in all probability liquid hydrocarbons would have to be flared off, does the Minister not agree that in a world which is increasingly short of energy this would be a waste that Australia could not afford? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. In September 1978, the United States Department of Health, Education and Welfare published a report which stated that 40 per cent of all cancer deaths in the United States were due to exposure to occupational carcinogens such as asbestos, uranium, benzine, nickel oxide, chromium and petroleum factions, to mention just a few. I ask the Minister: What check is being made in Australia on workers exposed to these and other chemicals? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. I refer to the increase in excise levied on all potable spirits by the Federal Government in the 1978-79 Budget. Has there been any increase in revenue to the Government from this change in excise? What has been the change in revenue, whether it has been an increase or a decrease, in respect of each Australian spirit and each imported spirit on which the change took place? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services. It also concerns the Minister for Housing and Construction. On 1 6 January 1979 the Minister for Administrative Services advised members and senators from South Australia by letter that the Commonwealth Parliament Offices were to be relocated at 13 Grenfell Street, Adelaide, in about May of this year. In the Adelaide  Mail  of last weekend it was stated that the Government was now planning to erect a building in Pirie Street- Gawler Place, Adelaide, which building would include a full Cabinet room and office accommodation for South Australian members of parliament. Is it still the Minister's intention to relocate the South Australian Commonwealth Parliament Offices in Grenfell Street? If so, is that a temporary measure until the new building is completed, if in fact a new building is to be erected in Pirie Street? If the building mentioned in the newspaper is to be erected, when will it be commenced and when is it likely to be completed? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development. As there is a shortage of fuel in many countries which must affect Australia in the near future, what steps have been taken to ensure that it will be possible to keep our essential industries and transport going in the future? When will this Government evolve a comprehensive energy policy for Australia? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. As the Minister is aware, this year we are celebrating the International Year of the Child. Will the Minister give consideration to holding a 'Year of the Aged' to focus attention on the past achievements of our elderly citizens and to remind all sections of the community of their responsibility to the aged? 
-Can the Minister for Science and the Environment tell the Senate how many SIROTEM machines, developed by the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation for mineral research, and manufactured by an Adelaide firm, have been sold in Australia and how many have been exported? Can the Minister also tell us how successful the machines have been in discovering new mineral resources? 
-I ask the Minister for Education: Does the Government accept that there are advantages in a longer term appointment to the position of  Chairman  of the Academic Salaries Tribunal for a period of up to five years as allowed by the legislation? I also ask: What are the reasons for  Mr Justice  Ludeke 's one-year appointment as  chairman  of the Academic Salaries Tribunal? 
I have some doubts about whether the people who have been reported to their employer or prospective employer by the Director-General of the Australian Security Intelligence Organization or its agents have rights under this Bill to appeal. Clause 17 of the Bill sets out the general functions of ASIO. Clause 17(l)(b) enables the communication of intelligence relevant to security to such persons and in such a manner as is appropriate for the functioning of security. Clause 18(3) extends the functions to enable certain information to be given to police, Customs officers, the Office of National Assessments or a Minister or department. The Bill appears to contain no provision to prevent the giving to an employer or prospective employer by the Director-General of ASIO of information on the political opinions of a person. If the withholding of information is to be done in the name of security, as set out in clause 17 ( 1 ) (b), no appeal would be permitted where the employer was not the Commonwealth, a Commonwealth authority or a Commonwealth contractor. The giving of such information would not necessarily relate to a security assessment as defined in this Bill and therefore there would be no obligation to notify a person who was the subject of a report. 
This brings to mind the difficulty that  Senator Cavanagh  experienced many years ago when he tried to get access to Woomera. He was refused access. He was a trade union official who was doing his job. I realise that clause 34 takes some cognisance of this aspect. Union officials who represent people working in places where military work is being done, such as Garden Island or the government aircraft factories, would want access to those places. I doubt very much that it would be granted. There could then be difficulties. What would happen if a union official wished to change his employment and the Director-General of ASIO then reported to his prospective employer? I believe that there would be no chance of appeal by that person. Instances involving the waterfront where I worked come to mind. People on the waterfront handle military supplies and incoming and outgoing goods. The Director-General of ASIO could say to any of the people who handle the weapons or munitions that he intended to make a statement to the employer. Those employees would then be at a disadvantage. As I see it, there is just no provision under this Bill for appeal if the report was not a security assessment and if the person concerned was not an employee of the Commonwealth, a Commonwealth authority or a Commonwealth contractor. 
I believe that the trade union movement has experienced a great deal of anxiety in the past because of ASIO. Some terrible things have been said in the past about people and they simply have not been able to appeal about them. I believe that the provisions of this Bill should go further and provide for appeals by people who are working for an employer other than the Commonwealth, a Commonwealth authority or a Commonwealth contractor. I have grave misgivings that all people in the community have not been given this right. I would like to hear the Attorney-General comment on that. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Social Security. Many pensioner groups representing age pensioners and exservicemen have approached me and other politicians to express their concern over the increasing financial hardship of their members. Can the Minister assure the Senate that when the forthcoming Budget is being discussed she will do her utmost to persuade her colleagues in the Cabinet to restore twice-yearly indexation of pensions? In the meantime, will the Minister at least allay the fears of many pensioners and other persons who believe that the full indexation increases will not be granted in November? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development, concerns increased motor vehicle pollution in Australian cities, necessitating further emission control systems to safeguard health. 1 ask the Minister whether he thinks these controls would not be necessary if there were widespread conversion to liquid petroleum gas. Furthermore, if the Government is seriously concerned with the shortage of fuel and the effects of pollution, will it consider abolishing the huge excise on liquid petroleum gas and thus pass on the benefits of such abolition to those motorists who are prepared to convert their vehicles to liquid petroleum gas? Finally, I ask the Minister: When is the Government prepared to convert all its Commonwealth vehicles to liquid petroleum gas? 
When we were dealing with clause 17 on 5 April I asked why all people in the community should not have the right of appeal. I mentioned a number of working people who would not have the right of appeal. In answer to a question raised by  Senator Cavanagh  the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  replied on 5 April.  His  reply is recorded on page 1398 of  Hansard.  Part of it reads: 
The Director-General advises me that only on very rare occasions would he be making any security assessments outside those areas. Indeed, as I said in my second reading speech, in relation to the Opposition amendment extending the rights of appeal to assessments given to a State authority, the Director-General is proposing that in future in the rare cases where he may give a security assessment to a State about a State official, such an assessment should be given through a Commonwealth agency so as to preserve the right of appeal. So I think that the answer is that although it is true that there is no right of appeal outside these specific areas provided for in Part IV which we will be debating at a later stage, the Director-General will be very unlikely to give any security assessments about people outside that area. 
I believe that not to give the right of appeal to all people in the community is not only unfair but also unjust. Numerous people need not work for the Commonwealth Government, its authorities or contractors, or for a State government or its authorities. For example, now that the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority has been disbanded people working on the waterfront do not work for an authority. They handle munitions and all sorts of things. A security assessment could be made on them. That assessment need not be in writing. In the true sense of this Bill it is not an assessment but simply a report to their employer. Those people are discriminated against. Any number of other people could come under assessment. In the past people who have done no more than protest against certain things have been given security assessments. Many trade union leaders have suffered unduly as a result. I refer to what  Mr Justice  White said when he looked at what happened in South Australia. A report of his remarks states: 
After perusal of a small sample of the 4 1 , 000 dossiers held by the Special Branch in Adelaide, acting Justice White reported having found 'scandalously inaccurate opinions' about the political standing of prominent citizens. 'I have seen a number of cards where information patently false to my knowledge, has been used to the attempted disadvantage of certain persons '. 
My perusal of Special Branch files show that many hundreds of people have done nothing more than take an active part in many causes where time and changing opinion have usually proved them to be right in the eyes of most Australians- campaigns against involvement in the Vietnam war or conscription for the purposes of that war, the importance of the environment and ecology and so on. They are the kinds of activities that active persons with a social conscience and a vision of a better Australia are entitled to be involved in without the brand ofsuspected subversion'. 
That is the type of thing about which I am concerned. I believe that there are numerous people who would come under assessment but who would have no right of appeal. It was because of such conditions that the unions, not only in this country, but throughout the world, appealed to the International Labour Organisation for a provision to give all people the right of appeal. I draw attention to ILO Convention No. 111. It was ratified by Australia on 15 June 1973. It came into force in Australia on 15 June 1974. Article 4 ofthe Convention No. 1 1 1 reads: 
Any measures affecting an individual who is justifiably suspected of or engaged in, activities prejudicial to the security ofthe State shall not bc deemed to bc discrimination, provided that the individual concerned shall have the right to appeal to a competent body established in accordance with national practice. 
Unless this clause is amended to give all people in the community the right of appeal if an assessment or report is made on them, I believe it will contravene Article 4 of Convention No. 1 1 1. 1 do not believe that this country should be considered a banana republic. Once conventions are adopted by a country they should be honoured by that country. The trade union movement has fought hard and bitterly in the past to overcome the disadvantages created for them by security organisations in many countries. If provision is not made to cover all people in the community most certainly this will be taken up by other bodies. I appeal to the Committee to look at this question. On 5 April the Attorney-General indicated that not all people would have the right of appeal. I ask that provision be made in this clause to give that right. 
What would be the position of a minister of religion who goes on to a defence establishment such as a warship and who demonstrates against the use of nuclear power? He could preach to that congregation that it was immoral to use nuclear power in the community. Could anyone tell me that such a minister of religion would not have a security assessment made of him? Although he can go on to such an establishment he is not an employee, he is not part of an authority. I believe that there will be numerous occasions when people will not have the right to appeal under this Act. 
I am not just concerned about the general problem. I am concerned about people who are not members of the Commonwealth, its authorities or agents or of a State or its authorities. Some people who are not in those categories deal with the Commonwealth. I pointed earlier to the stevedoring industry. At one time employees were members of the Stevedoring Industry Authority; they are now private employees. In the past security assessments or security reports- call them what you will- have discriminated against people who should not have been discriminated against. The trade unions have tried to get the International Labour Organisation conference to accept an amendment. The matter to which I have referred has not been taken into consideration. Although I agree that it is only a minor point, I believe it should be considered. It is said that this Bill is supposed to show some justice. In the past there has been no justice for many people in the community. Terrible assessments have been made about people; terrible things have occurred in the past. I believe that the Bill should be amended to take care of this aspect, minor as it is. 
I am still not satisfied. I believe that there will be people in the community who will suffer and, unless the matter is covered by legislation, the Government will be contravening an International Labour Organisation convention. If these amendments are agreed to, it will be only to the advantage of the Government. If the Government thinks that the trade union movement will accept this provision lying down, it has another think coming. The trade union movement has suffered in the past. There is a way out of this problem and I believe it should be taken. The Government has the numbers to ride roughshod over everyone, but I warn it that it will not get away with it. I think that this matter should have been set aside so that it could be looked at thoroughly. The trade union movement fought for many years to get a right such as this written into the ILO convention and the Government's actions most certainly will be reported to the ILO convention when it meets next month. 
Question resolved in the negative. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clauses 35 and 36- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 37. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development. We have heard recently of the violence in California following the petrol shortages. I ask the Minister: When will the Federal Government formulate a comprehensive energy policy so that Australia will not be subjected to the same kind of violence when existing fuel supplies run low? Throughout Australia there are often surpluses of various crops. In particular, thousands of tonnes of grapes are rotting on the vines in growing areas. Will the Government consider financing and establishing ethanol producing industries, where such surpluses occur, to help the fuel supply, to relieve unemployment and to give growers a return for their produce? 
I rise to say a few words in the debate on the Appropriation Bills. I believe that medical costs in some areas of this country are reaching alarming proportions. One aspect of health about which I am concerned is the increase in the incidence of cancer, especially cancer that is caused by the environment in which we work and live. Cancer is a problem which touches each of us in some way. We and our families are exposed daily to the agents, called carcinogens, which cause cancer, often unknowingly while we breathe, eat, drink and sleep. However, usually we have no knowledge of what we are being exposed to. In order to respond to the cancer threat, we must all be equipped with basic information and demand preventive policies and actions. If action is to be effective it must be based on information and directed within the realistic limits of the political system. 
The incidence of cancer, as we all know, is increasing. It is only in recent years that people have become aware that many cancer-causing agents derive from industrial processes. People who work in a large number of industries today would be subjected to cancer-causing carcinogens if they were not protected by proper breathing apparatus and protective clothing. Tanners and smelters and those who work in the plastics industries run the real risk of contracting cancer of the liver. People who work in the glass, pottery, linoleum, metal, electrolysis, wood, leather and shoe industries and who do not wear protective breathing apparatus and clothing run a real risk of contracting cancer of the nasal cavity and sinuses. Many people who work with asbestos, mine workers, textile users, insulation workers, tanners, smelters, glass and pottery workers, coal tar and pitch workers, and iron foundry workers run the real risk of getting cancer of the lung. 
As many honourable senators know, I worked on the waterfront. We had to handle asbestos. Only in the last few weeks people in that industry have started to become ill and the employers agreed to test six people taken at random from the industry at Port Adelaide. Three of those six people have asbestosis. That just goes to show the dangers that people are exposed to when they are totally unaware of the risks they are taking. It has taken possibly 20 years for them to realise that they have asbestosis. Years ago asbestos was imported into this country in unprotected containers- bags that were torn and broken. The asbestos came in ships and floated around in the air. It was taken from the waterfront in open trucks. People in the vicinity of where those trucks went can be affected also. Today it has been proven that asbestos is one of the greatest threats to people. If one works in that industry or lives near it one can almost certainly contract cancer of the lung or asbestosis. This has been known since the early 1 900s when insurance companies began not to give life insurance cover to people who worked in the asbestos industry. It was known at that time that it was very dangerous and yet workers and the general public have never really been told the full truth. That is the real problem. People in the work force and in the general community in every country where asbestos is mined and worked and where many of the other cancer causing agents are coming to the fore now are 3 totally unaware that such conditions prevail. 
We have not been told by the medical profession of the dangers involved in many of these industries and yet people go into these industries with no thought of the danger. Professor Epstein is Professor of Occupational and Environmental Medicine at the School of Public Health, University of Illinois at the Medical Centre, Chicago. He was also Chief of the Laboratories of Environmental Toxicology and Carcinogenesis at the 
Children's Cancer Research Foundation in Boston, Senior Research Associate in Pathology at Harvard Medical School, and Swetland Professor of Environmental Health and Human Ecology at Case Western Reserve University Medical School. He has produced a document entitled 'The Politics of Cancer'. That document explains just how vulnerable the American population is to some of the cancer causing agents which are available in the United States. Cancer is now killing and disabling 53 million people in the United States. He says that over a quarter of the population will develop some form of cancer, from which approximately 20 per cent of the United States population will die. It is estimated that 665,000 new cancer cases were diagnosed in 1975 and that there were 365,000 cancer deaths. In 1975 alone cancer deaths were five times higher than the total United States military deaths in the Vietnam and Korean wars combined. 
In this country we have not done a comprehensive study on this subject. It is essential for any developed country to do this. If we are to know the real causes of illnesses which result in increases in health expenditure, I believe that it is essential for this to be done. I think back to some 20 years ago when we worked on the waterfront with machines that were powered by petrol. At that time quite a number of our people were becoming affected by petrol fumes when working below decks in confined spaces. There was a large increase in the number of people dying from what we thought were heart complaints, but we had no idea what was causing them. Because we were concerned about this we started to keep records. We realised that they just were not dying of heart complaints and it was our belief then that they must have been dying from carbon monoxide gas. But the medical profession at that time told us that if one had a large intake of carbon monoxide gas and got out into the fresh air, the gas would dissipate from the body. We believed that this was not right. 
Eventually after we had collected sufficient information the then assistant secretary of the Waterside Workers Federation went to a medical convention in the United States and con- vinced people at the convention that carbon monoxide gas did not dissipate out of the body but actually built up over a period and eventually caused brain damage and death. This was latter proved to be correct. Over 20 years ago we decided that we would not work with machines that were powered by petrol and that the employers had to bring in machines which used liquid petroleum gas, which is comparatively free of all the dangers to which one would be subjected when breathing the fumes from petrol using machines. Since that time the whole of the problem has been cleaned up. This did not cost the industry anything. The running of machines on liquid petroleum gas saved that industry many thousands of dollars. There was less maintenance on the machines and the health of the people improved simply because this fact was brought to the employers' attention. 
I believe that there should be a full and thorough investigation into all industries. With commonsense attitudes not only can people's health be restored and safeguarded but also a great deal of expense can be saved by the whole of the community. That is essential. It is simply not good enough for people who work in industry all of a sudden to find themselves in real trouble because of cancer causing agents. In the last few weeks it has been found that men who have been working as machine operators and using machine oil and whose overalls and clothing have been impregnated with the oil have contracted cancer of the scrotum. That type of occurrence could be overcome quite easily by people wearing decent protective clothing. It is simply that that has not been thought of. I believe that consideration should be given to the whole matter. 
Debate interrupted. 
I preface my question, which is directed to the Minister for Education, by reminding the Senate of the many unemployed teachers in each State and of the difficulties that many isolated children have with education. Will the Minister consider an agreement with State governments to subsidise the employment of trained unemployed teachers who are willing to work as tutors or governesses in outback areas where small groups of children are learning by correspondence? The need for adequate supervision is greatest in small rural schools where white and Aboriginal children are finding difficulties coping with secondary lessons. Further, will the Minister investigate the possibility of establishing art and craft education centres in small rural towns where there are many unemployed, especially among the Aboriginals? 
-Has the Leader of the Government in the Senate seen an article on page 7 of the  Australian Financial Review  of 25 May in which it was stated that the Australian taxpayers will help to underwrite a corporate fund raising campaign by the ruling National Party in Queensland to the tune of $ 1.2 m? The article further claims that a letter sent by the  President  of the National Party in Queensland,  Sir Robert  Sparkes, stated that the tax dodge in this scheme is legal if donations pay for advertisements placed in the  National Outlook.  Will the Leader of the Government in the Senate confer with the Prime Minister and the Treasurer to see whether the scheme is one of the kinds of scheme the Treasurer intends to stop, as he mentioned in the mini-Budget last Thursday? Will the Minister inform the Senate of the outcome of the discussions in the near future? 
Last Tuesday evening, I stated that the incidence of cancer was increasing throughout Australia. I believe that the majority of cancer in Australia is caused by industry. I stated that cancer of the scrotum is caused by white oil. This was discovered by the Amalgamated Metal Workers and Shipwrights Union. The discoveries have not been made by the medical profession or by the Department of Health. They have been made by workers' organisations. It is estimated that in Australia 20,000 Australians will die of cancer next year. Much of this cancer is caused by conditions that workers have to endure. Last Tuesday night, I said that the Waterside Workers Federation had sent six people to the National Health and Medical Research Association for tests. Three of those six people were diagnosed as having asbestosis. Since that period, a further 20 people have been sent. Of those 20 people, another six are suspected to have asbestosis and must have further tests. This example shows the extent of asbestosis in Australia, especially in people who work in the asbestos industry. 
As yet there are no details about what is happening in any of these industries in which these people work. No research has been undertaken in Australia. We can rely only on research that has been undertaken in other countries. Almost half of the cancers in the United States have been caused by exposure to chemical carcinogens in the work place. This information is taken from a report by the Department of Health, Education and Welfare and is authorised by the most distinguished governmental scientists in carcinogenesis statistics. This report was released in September 1 978. It is based on the analysis of the causes of death in relation to asbestos and other known major carcinogens such as arsenic, benzene, chromium, nickel oxide and petroleum fractions. It fails to take into account the wide range of other chemical carcinogens in the work place and it fails to take into account the cancer mortality due to the spillover of chemical carcinogens from the work place into the surrounding community. 
There has been no information from the work place of what chemicals are likely to be of danger to workers in many of these industries. I believe that that lack of knowledge is causing a great deal of insecurity in the work place in Australia. Overseas studies have proved that workers in petrochemical works are very likely to contact cancer. It takes approximately 20 years for this disease to manifest itself. In the past, the majority of cancers has been blamed on smoking. I am not saying that smoking is of no danger to the population. 

 - Senator Baume, from studies undertaken in the United States, it is estimated that 400,000 people in the United States will die of cancer next year and it is recognised that 25 per cent of those deaths will be caused by smoking. It is recognised also that 40 per cent is caused by industrial carcinogens. That is the relevant point. That is what has not been taken into account. I do not say that anyone who smokes and works in a petrochemical industry or industries which use asbestos or fibreglass - 
I would say most certainly that in the coal industry they are vulnerable. It is just not good enough to say that smoking is going to cause all the cancer cases. 
-I ask the Leader of the Government whether he can tell the Senate what happened to the promise made by the Prime Minister in November 1975 that 'only under a Liberal-National Country Party Government will there be jobs for all who want to work'. He made a further promise in November 1977 that unemployment will fall from February and keep falling'. On behalf of all Australians who are out of work, I ask: When will these promises be fulfilled? 
I wish to speak about the Stuart Highway. There are a few relevant points that have not been raised. The Stuart Highway should be considered as  a  defence road. Unless it is an allweather road it cannot be used for defence purposes. Although in the near future there will be a good railway, for the defence of this nation there should be a good road in case that railway is knocked out. The road also will have to play other vital roles because in certain areas it has to carry very heavy traffic. When the old railwaythe Ghan- closes down at approximately the end of this year, the railway will finish at Maree. Oodnadatta is beyond Maree. There will be no railway to that town. An all-weather road has to be built from Maree to Cadney Park, which is the nearest town to Oodnadatta. It is about 130 kilometres away. 
Not only must the South Australian Government try to build the Stuart Highway, but also it has to build connecting roads so that the people in these areas can have access to the new railway line. The road is close to the new railway line. This is impossible if one looks at the road grants- this year amounting to $46,439,000 that have been allocated to South Australia. That is the second lowest amount allocated in the Commonwealth. Yet South Australia has a very long road distance. Victoria, which is a comparatively small State, received $176m. The increase for this year was $3,232,000 which does not cover the 8.2 per cent increase in inflation. In real terms, it is not as much money as South Australia was granted last year. It will be impossible to build the Stuart Highway unless special Federal grants are provided. I wish to put on record what  Mr Virgo  said. A report in the Adelaide  Advertiser of 26  May states: 
In Adelaide, the SA Minister of Transport,  Mr Virgo,  yesterday criticised the allocation and warned that the State's roadworks program might have to be cut. 
He said  Mr Nixon  had not yet told the SA Government of its allocation. 
Wc have had to rely on the media for the information,'  Mr Virgo  said. 
When he does inform us we will certainly have to examine in detail our road program for the next year. 
Wc will not bc able to do any more road works in the coming year than wc did this year. 
In this present financial year the Commonwealth Government returned less than one-third of the funds that they collected from road users via fuel tax to the building of roads, and next year that percentage will drop even further. 
Motorists ought to be aware they are being fleeced left, right and centre by the Federal Government.' 
That is the real issue. South Australia has never received money for beef roads. Many of the other States have. South Australia has received a small amount of funds for national roads but never for beef roads. Large quantities of beef will have to be transported along 130 kilometres of road from Oodnadatta. The only connecting link is a rough bush track, and if the area receives even five points of rain road access to the area ceases for at least a week. It is imperative that the Government look at this road. In the very near future people will again be isolated in this area. The Government should look at special funding. I think all honourable senators should support this. 
While I am on my feet I want  to  mention flags of convenience ships.  Senator Mulvihill  asked a question on this matter and one of the answers which he received stated:   . . employment conditions are the responsibility of the flag state. We have no control over the periods of service performed by personnel on foreign tankers. However, terminal operators have been encouraged to report immediately to their local departmental surveyors any problems or fears concerning the efficiency, experience or language barriers of ship's personnel. 
This answer was given to a question asked by  Senator Mulvihill  about spillages of oil by the Balder Borg tanker in Sydney. That spillage occurred on 7 August 1978. There was a further spillage from another ship on 16 November 1978. It has been my experience that crews on flags of convenience ships are grossly underpaid. They are also severely exploited. The crews of these ships, which are mainly Liberian or Panamanian, are paid virtually any rate the masters wish to pay. 
Not only are they underpaid. In many cases captains and officers log the crews for minor misdemeanours and reduce the little bit of money that they are supposed to get. Consequently the crews on these ships become very disgruntled. 
All major oil spillages throughout the world have been from flags of convenience ships. This is simply because of the conditions under which seamen on these ships must work. The Department of Transport said that it has no responsibility in this area. I believe that it does have a responsibility to see that crews are paid adequate wages. I believe that flags of convenience ships on the Australian coast should be regarded as suspect. Much has been said about the Great Barrier Reef. The crews of some ships that ply our coast become very disgruntled, as I have said, and it would take only a few seconds to put a ship on the rocks. This can happen. I am sure that it has happened in many parts of the world. The great oil spillages that have occurred around the world have been caused by flags of convenience ships. I personally know of the terrible conditions that these crews have to put up with. I think the Australian Government should be looking at this matter. If we get a spillage of oil it is going to be disastrous. The ships are getting bigger. Today they are all of 100,000 tonnes or more. I do not believe that we should have flags of convenience ships entering the waters of this country. I ask the Minister for a reply to both questions. 
-Has the Minister representing the Minister for National Development seen the report of a two-year survey, headed by Professor L. Smythe of the University of New South Wales, which states that almost a quarter of 1 ,200 children tested in Sydney had levels of lead in their blood above those found to cause adverse effects on health and behaviour? I also ask whether it is reasonable that large sections of the community be exposed to high levels of lead, carbon monoxide and dioxide and sulphur dioxide, when the remedy is in the Government's hands- to promote the use of liquid petroleum gas, which contains only minute quantities of pollutants and, at the same time, to bring about huge savings in oil imports and public health costs. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Science and the Environment. 
The Central Information Service of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation publishes many valuable papers on various subjects. Two such papers are 'Low Consumption House' and 'Insulating Your Home'. I ask the Minister: Is it possible to publish in the media a list of bulletins prepared by CSIRO and to indicate where the public can obtain them so that more and more people who intend to build or alter homes can plan for energy conservation? As yesterday was World Environment Day, which was celebrated throughout the world, does the Minister agree that the absence of a clearly thought out energy policy designed to minimise waste and to encourage alternative energy uses disadvantages the entire community? 
-I ask the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Social Security whether he will consider the many petitions lodged in both Houses of Parliament seeking, firstly, that twice-yearly pension adjustments be restored and, secondly, that pensions and the unemployment benefit be raised to 30 per cent of average weekly earnings. Will the Minister also consider raising the allowable income levels of all pensioners as these have not been increased for many years? 
-I rise to say only a few words on the same subject. I believe that the wine industry is in real difficulties, simply because of the excise that was placed on that industry in the last Budget. It is true that the brandy industry is an integral part of the whole wine industry. It employs many people. The Treasury will not receive the $130m it expects from the extra excise and what  Senator Messner  failed to say is that there are people in that industry who are unemployed and that is of no benefit whatsoever to this nation. 
I am concerned that this Government is thinking about putting an excise on wine. I believe that this would completely destroy the industry. I will agree with  Senator Messner  that this industry cannot take sudden changes. If there is to be any adjustment in the industry, the change has to occur over at least a five or six-year period. The wine industry is the most vulnerable industry of all the agricultural industries. This has not been taken into consideration in the past. In 1 970 an excise of 8.3c a bottle and approximately 25c a flagon was placed on wine, but the actual price of the wine went up by 12c to 15c a bottle and by 35c to 40c a flagon simply because of State taxes and other expenses involved. In that same year, the wine industry had a growth rate of 10.7 per cent. After the excise was placed on the wine in 1970, this figure fell to minus 0.3 per cent. The same thing would happen today. In the last Budget the excise on brandy was increased massively from 10.2 lc a litre to 1 8.75c a litre. The industry now has a large surplus of brandy that it just cannot get rid of. It has over 13 million litres of brandy in stock and there is simply no way of getting rid of it. Anyone who goes to the grape growing area will see tonnes of grapes rotting on the vines, and I believe that that situation is quite intolerable. 
It is estimated that 22 1 million litres of wine, with a value of approximately $330m, will be sold by the end of June. If this Government imposes an excise of 1 per cent on that wine the return will be $3. 3m. But that will not be the case, as it was with wine in 1 970. 
The wine and brandy industries certainly should be given a sympathetic hearing by this Government. I do not believe that the report of the Industries Assistance Commission justifies any increase. If there is to be an increase in excise it should be planned over a long period. Growers should be forewarned. Plantings could be adjusted over a period of five or six years. I believe then that the industry would increase. This industry has had continual setbacks over the years because of successive Government interference. The brandy industry has contributed $136,715,734 in excise in the period 1972-78. In 1977-78 the brandy industry contributed $28,955,560. It is not possible to assess the industry's contribution this financial year. Possibly it will be much the same because brandy sales have remained static. I do not think the Government will receive anywhere near the revenue it is seeking. A large number of people work in the industry, in the distilling section as well as in the growing section, and I ask the Government to take cognisance of that fact. In view of the time I will conclude my remarks, but I think many other honourable senators would like to say more. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Social Security. I refer to the decision announced by the Minister last night to amend the Social Services Act to enable automatic increases to age pensions in accordance with the movement in the consumer price index and, further, that such adjustments would not flow to people aged 70 years or more. What are the savings to revenue of this callous discrimination against pensioners over 70 years of age? 
-Can the Leader of the Government in the Senate give the Senate the reasons for the great anomalies in the Government's new taxation schemes? I give as examples the differences in effective tax increases between a taxpayer with dependants and a single taxpayer. The wage earner with dependants and earning $6,000 a year will pay an increase of 134.63 per cent in taxation, while a single taxpayer earning the same amount will pay 13.8 per cent more. A taxpayer with dependants and earning $8,000 a year will pay an increase of 17.71 per cent, compared with a single taxpayer's increase of 6.4 per cent. A taxpayer with dependants and earning $12,000 a year will pay 5.7 per cent more, while his single counterpart will pay 2.6 per cent more. I ask the Minister: Are these great differences a mistake on the part of the Government, or are they a deliberate attempt to destroy the family structure in our society? 
-I ask the Minister for Science and the Environment: What research is being done in Australia by the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation or other government agencies into the carcinogenic effects on workers of chemicals used in industry? Does the Minister receive regular reports from overseas agencies carrying out similar work? Is this information given to industries which use the particular chemicals under research? Is this information released for public scrutiny? 
-I ask the Minister representing the Treasurer: Has the Minister read the report in the  National Times of  the week ending 22 September in which  Mr David  Block, a director of CSR Ltd, is said to have stated: 
The so-called 'underground economy'- the people who evade taxes, engage in barter and avoid being included in government statistics- now accounts for between 25 and 30 percent of the national income. 
If these percentages are correct, will the Minister not agree that in Australia tax avoidance is out of control, despite the assurances of the Government? Will the Minister further explain to the Senate how inflation can be controlled when nearly a third of the national income is not disclosed because of tax avoidance schemes? 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 30 August 1979: 
1 ) What are the reasons from the anomalies in the Government's new taxation schemes, particularly the difference in the effective tax increases between a taxpayer with dependants and a single taxpayer whereby: (a) the taxpayer with dependants who is earning $6,000 will pay an increase of 1 34.63 per cent in taxation, while a single taxpayer earning the same amount will pay 13.8 per cent more; (b) a taxpayer with dependants who is earning $8,000 a year will pay an increase of 1 7.7 per cent compared with a single taxpayer's increase of 6.4 per cent; and (c) a taxpayer with dependants who is earning $ 1 2,000 a year will pay 5.7 per cent more, while his single counterpart will pay 2.6 per cent more. 
Are these anomalies a mistake on the part of the Government, or an attempt to undermine the family structure in our society. 
-Has the Minister representing the Minister for National Development seen a report of the United States Department of Energy, which states that energy consumption by American industry will be 13 to 17 per cent less per unit of output in 1980 than it was in 1 972? It further states that the most fuel intensive industries have improved their energy efficiency by more than 8 per cent through conservation measures. I ask the Minister what measures the Australian Government has taken to encourage industry in Australia to embark upon programs of energy conservation. 
My question is addressed to the Attorney-General. A week or so ago I asked the Minister for Science and the Environment what monitoring of dangerous chemicals was done in Australia. I follow it up now with a question in relation to an article in the  National Times  of the week ending 29 September about Alpha Chemicals Pty Ltd. I ask the Minister whether there are any Federal laws which set out the employer's legal responsibility to inform and train his workers in handling dangerous chemicals and other materials that may be injurious to health. Is there any Federal body which inspects premises where dangerous chemicals are manufactured or used and overviews legal compliance in the handling of health hazardous materials? If there are no Federal laws to cover health standards, will the Minister, in association with the States, consider setting up laws to ensure health standards in industry and to train and inform workers in the safe handling of dangerous materials? 
Tonight we are discussing legislation to amend the Navigation Act to lay down new criteria regarding the qualifications of masters, officers and seamen. Requirements relating to instructions, training, examinations and certificates of qualification of seagoing personnel are to be specified by regulations. Standards are being upgraded, and the legislation lays down the basis for the new curriculum to be adopted by the Tasmanian Maritime College. I am pleased to say that it was the Labor Government which started this college when it was in office in 1 973. 
Yes. There is a great need to improve the training of seagoing personnel. As ships become more technical and complicated the qualifications of the masters and seamen are needed to maintain them, and this need will increase as ships become larger , and faster and carry greater cargoes. It is sad that not all ships fall into this category. Many ships that come to this country fly what are called flags of convenience. They are registered in Liberia, Panama and other places which do not lay down a strict code for maritime industries to follow, and safety on those ships is very much neglected. 
If one considers the great oil spillages that have occurred and the ships that have foundered around the world in the last few years one finds that the majority of the ships were manned by seamen who had not been trained and that the majority of them flew flags of convenience. Many parts of the world have been polluted by oil spills, and I think this is a serious matter that the world should look at. As I have said, when ships have a high speed and carry large cargoes, training of personnel must be stringent. I believe that many ships coming to this country could not be considered safe. I have figures which show what some of the flag of convenience ships pay to seamen who work on them. The International Transport Federation has established a code, which last year set down a payment of $US520 a month. Only a matter of three years ago I was aware of seamen being paid $US16 a month. This is the type of problem with which all advanced countries have to cope. No shipping country in the world can compete with payments such as those. Correspondingly, when seamen are paid such a small rate of income they do not have the skills or the desire to put their best effort into the manning of the ships. Usually they are very unhappy ships, from the officers down to the seamen. This is one of the great problems that confronts not only this country but, I believe, the whole world. 
This Government should look seriously at the possibility of increasing the tonnages carried by Australian ships, whether of oil or our exported raw materials. Today we are the seventeenth largest trading country in the world, yet we have only 1 1 ships that ply overseas. They are good ships, and my understanding of them is that they are very happy and very competent ships. Naturally, the cost of manning those ships, on the basis of Australian wages and conditions, is much greater than the cost of manning ships which pay their seamen some $US 16 or $US 100 a month. I think that that situation is intolerable and should not be allowed to continue. 
The Seamen's Union of Australia has been associated with the drafting of this Bill and, as I understand it, has discussed it with the employers. I believe that there should be liaison not only with the companies but also with the Seamen's Union. That union is unhappy about the provision in this Bill as to the manning of the new types of ships. Further negotiations should take place on the minimum manning requirements. It is not for me to say what the outcome should or should not be but I believe that satisfactory results can flow from such negotiations. It is a matter of sitting down and working out sensible solutions that are satisfactory to the whole of the industry. 
The Australian Labor Party does not want to see the Australian ships priced out of a market but, on the other hand, wants to ensure that those who work the ships will have security of employment and will be paid properly. I believe that, with co-operation between ship owners, governments and unions, the Australian shipping industry can expand. This country should demand the opportunity to carry a much larger percentage of its exports. Australian ships should carry those cargoes. After all, if we lay down legislation which insists upon higher standards for the industry we should ourselves be using the resultant facilities. Qantas Airways Ltd carries the flag of this nation to almost every part of the world and I believe that Australian ships should do likewise. Australia gradually will increase its exports and imports and thus should have more of its own ships. Invisible costs always represent a drain on our international balances and for that reason alone we should consider seriously building up our maritime fleet. 
Moreover, in time of war it will be essential to have Australian ships and men who are capable of manning them. If Australia were endangered by invasion from another country it would almost certainly need its own ships. They are essential to any nation and I was very sorry to see the building of large ships in this country virtually stopped. The productivity of our shipyards should have been increased. Australia is a trading country and should always increase its shipbuilding resources. 
Under the legislation the compensation that is paid to injured seamen is to be increased. Although I could not find a reference to it in the Bill, I understand from the Seamen's Union that a seamen who is injured receives for the first three months full pay and after that $80 a week if he is a single man, $90 a week and so on. Correspondingly, a man with dependants will receive more. I realise that the allowance of three months on full pay does apply under the Navigation Act and certainly it should not be removed. I imagine that its removal would cause a great deal of trouble. Perhaps the Minister will refer to that matter in his reply. 
The passage of the Bill will increase navigational safety, and comes not before time. It represents a step forward and, given proper cooperation between the ship-owners, the unions and the Government, sensible solutions can be arrived at and a better shipping industry can be achieved in this country. As I have stated, that is essential for many reasons. I hope that the Government considers that fact further and has additional talks with the Seamen's Union and the industry in general. The Bill will improve the whole of the maritime industry. I wish to say no more on the matter except to urge the Government to increase the tonnage of Australian shipping. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. On 3 October an official of the Australian National Railways Commission stated that rail services from Adelaide to Port Pirie would be cut back to save money. I ask whether the closing down and curtailment of rail services is in the best interests of Australia's future transport needs. As the transport of people and goods is being left more and more to road vehicles, are we not likely to find ourselves in need of the railways that are now falling into disrepair when fuel for motor vehicles becomes scarcer and dearer? 
-I ask the AttorneyGeneral: Is there a convention that denies judges the right to confer privately amongst themselves or with a Minister about their professional concerns relating to proposed changes of law within their jurisdiction? If so, on what principles does this convention operate? Is the Attorney-General  aware of any departures from that convention since he took office? Does a breach of such a convention carry any consequences for the judge in question? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. As light commercial aircraft, including those engaged in agriculture, give a valuable service to people in isolated areas and in view of the unpredictable supply of avgas and its high cost, will the Federal Government consider giving small airline operators financial backing or loan guarantees to purchase turbo-prop or pure jet aircraft so that the rural people can be assured of a continuing and much needed service? 
-We on this side of the Senate are totally opposed to the Conciliation and Arbitration Amendment Bill. There are parts of this legislation which are so undemocratic that it is hard for me to accept that an Australian government would dare to bring legislation like this before the Australian Parliament. When I became a member of this Parliament, I thought that legislation would be passed by this Parliament to benefit all types of people, but very sadly I have found that not to be the case. The legislation of this Government is being enacted only to serve the very wealthy people of this country. If one does not have $ 1 m one is guilty of not being wealthy. That is the attitude of this Government. Unfortunately, there are a lot of people who support the Liberal and National Country parties, thinking that they are in a privileged position. I assure them that they are not. When I came to this place I was amazed also at the amount of security, to see the front doors of the building altered at a cost of something like $100,000 and to see security wherever one looked. 
Debate interrupted. 
-The Joint Committee on Publications worked extremely hard to produce this report. It made 108 recommendations to the Government. The decision was a unanimous one made by members from both sides of the Parliament. The recommendations were looked into thoroughly and I am disappointed about the large number of recommendations that have not been accepted by the Government. I do not believe that the Government looked into the real reasons the Committee made the recommendations. For instance, recommendation 6 states: 
That the policy of allocating a fixed proportion of printing and publishing work to the public and private sectors be discontinued. 
In response to that, the Government stated: 
The Government's long-term objective is to direct as much work as possible to commercial printers, while maintaining the Government Printer's capacity to carry out urgent and essential parliamentary and government printing. The proportion of printing and publishing directed to either sector is not allocated inflexibly as the recommendation suggests. 
The Government Printing Office is not operating as efficiently as it should. It is quite ludicrous that the Government Printer does not have a continuation of work. Members of the Committee from both sides of the Parliament looked into all these questions, including allowing contracts to go out to public enterprise. I do not believe that the Government has given full consideration to the recommendations of the Committee. I have just received a copy of the report and the responses from the Government. There are 108 recommendations, too many to go through all of them. I record my objections because, after looking at the responses that the Government has made, I do not believe that the work the Committee put into this, has been acknowledged. I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
Before the motion for the adjournment of the Senate was put I was saying that security had been increased quite alarmingly since I was elected to this place. Something like $100,000 has been spent on the front doors. More Commonwealth police are now on guard in this place. Bulletproof cars have been ordered for the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  at a cost in excess of $80,000 each. Aeroplanes have been ordered so that the Prime Minister can travel overseas. He said they were orderedbeacuse of the security risks.  Mr Whitlam  in 1975 proposed that the Commonwealth Police become part of a Federal police force. In the four years since that time the size of the Commonwealth Police has increased quite alarmingly. The Australian Security Intelligence Organisation has received unprecedented powers. It has the power to break into premises and to use bugging devices. 
I assure you,  Mr President,  that my remarks will become relevant. The powers of ASIO have been increased. It can tap phones and do many other things. This has all been foreign to this country. While I have been around this place I have not witnessed any reason for all this added security. One must come to the conclusion that the Government anticipates more violence. Why should this violence be anticipated? This society has been comparatively free of violence. It must have been the intention of this Government over 12 months ago to bring in legislation such as this to prepare for and provide this added security. This Bill was no mistake. It was well thought out 12 months ago, or possibly longer. The added security was quite unnecessary. I suggest that with the way things are going, if legislation such as the Bill we have before us tonight is continually brought before this Parliament the new Parliament House will have to be redesigned completely. I suggest that perhaps the people who designed the Siegfried Line should be brought in to design it, because that is what will be needed. With the way things are going and with the introduction of rotten legislation that takes away people's rights, it will have to be designed like a pillbox. I  always  thought very proudly that Australia was a democracy and that it was one of the few countries in the world where democracy counts for anything. 
Of course it is a dirty word. The contents of this legislation are exactly what Hitler put into legislation in Germany in the early 1930s. Make no mistake about that. Fascist organisations should not be tolerated and the fascist legislation of this country should not be tolerated. This legislation will not solve industrial disputes. No legislation in the world has solved industrial disputes. In undemocratic countries industrial disputes have been solved at the point of a gun; and after legislation such as this, that is the next step to be taken. I am disgusted to think that an Australian government would dare to bring down legislation such as this. When one looks at it, one finds that the whole of it is unbelievable. It is no wonder that the Government cannot get co-operation. 
I believe that there is a need to bring about better industrial relations, but this is no way to achieve it. There are better ways of doing it. I do not believe this Government really wants to bring about better industrial relations because in my opinion it has planned this legislation. It is very convenient to bring in such legislation to upset the unionists and then to say to the people: There you are, they are the people who are breaking all the laws', and thus cover up the misdeeds of this Government. This Government has said that it will reduce the rate of inflation. Next year the rate of inflation will run at almost 12 per cent, and all honourable senators opposite know that. At least three-quarters of a million people will be unemployed in this country. The Government has borrowed $5,000m to date. Next year it will be running round the world trying to borrow another $2,000m. Yet it dares to criticise the Whitlam Government for trying to borrow $400m to buy back the country. I know who are the real traitors in this country- make no mistake about it. 
This Bill seeks to inject into the principal Act a provision which purports to give the Government the power to order that claims for lost wages due to industrial action shall not be awarded by the Commission in any circumstances. That means that in future people who have had to stop work because of some unsafe condition will not be able to get a decision from the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. In the mid-1950s a provision was inserted into the award of the Waterside Workers Federation to cover the very thing that the Government is trying to prevent other unions from receiving. It was a safety clause. If the men decided that the working gear on a ship was unsafe they could stop work. They were off pay until an officer from the navigation authorities inspected the ship's gear. If he found that the ship's gear was unsafe and unworkable, the men were paid. If the claim was found to be frivolous, the men were not paid. I might add that the Waterside Workers Federation never lost a case because stoppages never occurred unless they were genuine. Consequently, on any occasion that there was a stoppage over such an issue, the men were paid. 
-That is just. I would recommend to any union that it have such a safety clause inserted in its award. I do not believe that a union should run to the industrial court every time a safety measure comes up and men have to stop work to safeguard their lives. Other honourable senators have spoken about many other aspects of that provision. 
I turn to the next provision that I consider to be entirely unacceptable to the trade union movement, that is, proposed new section 143a. Under that provision all that is required is for two men to engage in industrial action and a declaration to that effect can be sought from the Commission. The declaration has to be made. There is no other way. There is a provision in the legislation which says that the declaration must be made if the health, safety and welfare of any people are affected. That is very easily proved and there is no way in the world that a declaration would not be made. When the declaration is made, the Governor-General may freeze the whole of the funds of that union. In effect, the Minister can decide who shall or shall not be the secretary of that union and who can or cannot go to a union meeting. That is the power of this Bill. It takes away all the rights of people. 
If honourable senators opposite believe for one second that the working people of Australia will accept this legislation and take it lying down, I think they are sadly mistaken. I do not believe that the working people of Australia will fall into the traps that this Government is laying for them. I think that they will look at this legislation very intelligently and very closely. I believe that the credibility of this Government will be substantially damaged. Other governments have tried to do the same thing and have felt the sting of the people's rejection. If there is no democracy in any sector of the community, the people do not respond to the community's needs. Great anxiety grows up between workers and management. How can industrial relations improve under those conditions? To achieve that, we virtually have to stand over people continually. 
By this legislation it will be possible for a worker to lose his long service leave, irrespective of how long it is has been accruing, his sick leave and any holiday pay that is owing to him. It can all be lost under the legislation. In the early 1960s waterside workers were paid casual rates and were not entitled to long service leave. We fought over a long period to win that privilege. The Tasmanian Government was the first to give it to waterside workers. The Labor Government in New South Wales at that time decided to do the same but it did not actually come to pass. The Federal Menzies Government introduced legislation providing long service leave to waterside workers but it had no intention of giving it. Its purpose was merely to prevent the New South Wales Government from bringing in legislation that would extend long service leave to workers in that State. 
In those days if waterside workers looked sideways at a foreman or a supervisor or if they were a few minutes late for work it was possible under the Act to lose their long service leave. Indeed, it could be withdrawn for any misdemeanour. During a period of many years we were able to accrue no long service leave credits. Year after year they were taken from us. The hatred on both sides became so great that it was almost impossible to work under such conditions. I know what bad legislation can do and the hatred that it generates. It is almost impossible for any industry to operate under the conditions that are engendered by bad legislation. Always, in industrial disputation, too many outside people become involved, lawyers, governments and agencies of all sorts become involved. That is the worst thing that can happen. The more people involved, the harder it is to resolve the dispute. Governments that think they can cure industrial disruption by legislation are foolish. That is an impossibility. 
I believe that an honest attempt should be made to improve industrial relations and that there would be a genuine desire on the part of everyone to achieve that end. The Government should encourage labour and management to get together around the table. If that is impossible, a conciliation commissioner from the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission should be brought in. He would simply chair the meeting and get talks going. Commissioners are skilled in that field. They make suggestions and often, because of their training in that field they are very successful. One cannot simply bring in people with no training in industrial relations and think that they will solve problems. They cannot. Working people want security. Many industries could give workers that security. People have to be treated with some respect. If they are not there will be resentment. Too many managers in industry are too proud to talk to their workers. Anyone who cannot do that should not be a manager. There are in this country no bad men merely bad managers. There should be managerial courses to train these people. If they were provided half of our industrial problems could be overcome. The majority of our industrial problems arise out of almost nothing and hatred builds up. I have seen this happen continually. 
-I believe that our industrial problems are not as bad as they were years ago. In some areas there is need for the training of both trade union representatives and managers. Anyone who believes that only the managers and not the trade union delegates- the people who are dealing with each other- should be trained is mistaken. That is the real key to the matter. This practice of saying, 'You are a Liberal' or 'You are a communist' is no good. That is the worst thing that can happen. Members of the union elect their leaders because of the job they can do. They do not elect them because of their political affiliations or their colour. If any government or court tries to interfere, to say, You shall not have Joe Blow as your union secretary', there is immediately great resentment. 
One cannot stop it. Violence breeds violence. There is no need for it is the first place. There is no need for this legislation. We should be appointing more commissioners. The truth is that in many industries management cannot talk to labour and labour cannot to management. It is necessary to bring in conciliation commissioners, but their numbers are inadequate. No one wants to go on strike but today if a union puts in a claim and does not go on strike the claim will never be heard. 
There must be a stoppage and a strike. That is the real tragedy. If people could have someone come in and act as  chairman  of a meeting there would be no need for a stoppage. Labour and management should be better trained. If this is not done, if we do not look upon industrial relations as a special field and if governments continue to intrude I believe that industrial relations will become worse. This Bill will not improve industrial relations. It will only make them far worse. That is the real problem. I have been through very bad times, when unions and management would not give an inch. The position deteriorated to such an extent that the system could not work. I was one of those who said, 'There must be a better way'. I took it upon myself to meet some of the employers. I said to them, 'For goodness sake, can't we sit down and resolve some of these problems'. I talked to a few others also and eventually that co-operation did occur and went from strength to strength. Eventually the Waterside Workers Federation changed over from the casual system to the permanent system of employment and today the relationship between management and labour is very good. Such co-operation takes a long time to achieve but it is improving continually. 
In the past there would not have been a more turbulent industry in which there was more hatred than the waterfront industry. I have seen all of that. In 1956 someone mentioned that certain people intended to put the waterside workers into the ground. I remember that dispute very vividly. Everything seemed to have been lost. The hatred that was engendered at that time was unbelievable unless one experienced it. Men would have been prepared to die. Somebody said that the union could be deregistered. The unionists were so inflamed at that time that they said: 'Well, come on, let them try'. People had to be talked out of getting a gun and taking action. That is how people can become inflamed. Do not ever think that violence cannot erupt; it can. The best people, the very mild, pleasant people will go to that end. I tell honourable senators that they will fight and that proved it to me. It is a very dangerous thing to engender all this violence in our society. 
I have always considered that Australia has something better to give the world. We should be able to resolve our problems amongst ourselves. We should not be thinking of what is happening in other countries. There is a better way. I thought when I was elected to this Parliament that we would solve some of our problems. This is what I am saying here, what I am pleading for. I know it is rubbish and no one will listen to it. No one is going to take up anything and it is not going to alter anything. There are a lot of sincere people on all sides. I am not saying that they are not sincere, but what is the good of it? Why is this system not working? Why can we not do it? We all want to do it. Yet no one has the courage to say: Well, let us do it. It could be done. We have got no confidence in ourselves as Australians. That, I think, is one of the things we should be doing. We have one of the finest principles and one of the finest countries. We have good upbringing, everyone is healthy and reasonably well educated. Why is it that we have so many unemployed? We have a very rich country and yet we, the managers, allow this to go on. We have half a million unemployed now. There is no security and no future. That is how people are seeing it. If we cannot give better guidance, if we cannot run the country better we are going to lose it; that is what it is all about. We have something like 1 5 million people. We would not have seven million people in the work force if everyone wanted a job. Do you mean to tell me that we cannot employ seven million people, that we cannot find work for them, that life cannot be more useful or purposeful in this country? We ought to be ashamed of ourselves as politicians. It is no wonder the general public think very lowly of politicians. It is about time that we, as politicians, started to do something about it. We have the procedures here and we have the committee system. If we were really sincere about it we could start a committee, get the thing going, give some advice and have a look at it. It could work. If we cannot manage this country with virtually no problems, with a small population, a wealthy country, we should not be allowed to have it. We could not run a peanut stall if we cannot run this country. There is lack of cooperation. It is lack of saying: Well, let us do something about it. There is no one willing to do anything about it. Unless we do it, I am afraid somebody else will come in and do it for us and that is not good enough. I would ask that this Government take a serious look at this Bill. It is not going to work. There are better ways and I believe people would co-operate. I think it is hopeless going on like this. I sincerely hope that the Government will have a look at what it is doing and will do better in the future.  (Quorum formed). 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development and refer to statements attributed to the Minister,  Mr Newman,  in this morning's newspapers to the effect that 1 1,400 kilograms of material was transported in seven containers from Maralinga in South Australia in March this year. I also refer to the previous South Australian Government's statement claiming that only half a kilogram of plutonium existed to be transferred to the United Kingdom and that this was a mass about the size of a small egg. Can the Minister say, firstly, whether only half a kilogram of plutonium was transported? Secondly, what other material was transported and what was the quantity thereof? Thirdly, what was the weight and composition of the containers holding all the materials? Can the Minister also give an assurance that there were no dangerous by-products from the experiments and that no contaminated Maralinga soil was transported? 
-Has the Minister representing the Minister for Transport seen the item in the latest issue of the  National Times  which claims that the  Malcolm Fraser  is unreliable? The item further states that the  Gough Whitlam  took up the load and carried the Australian National Railways train to Cook. In the meantime, the  Malcolm Fraser,  described as 'a real lemon and a useless hunk of machinery', was hauled back by the  William McMahon  to Tarcoola for repairs. Can we have the Minister's assurance that when the new rail link between Tarcoola and Alice Springs is opened all these tired locomotives will be replaced by reliable ones so that the people in the outback will have dependable transport? 
-This clause will not restrict strikes. It will extend them. That is not really what the Government wants. The Government believes that, by denying people the right to claim unemployment benefit if they are out of work because of some industrial action in some other part of the country, the number of strikes will be restricted. The legislation will not do that. Members of trade unions are on various salaries. Some may earn $20,000 or $30,000 a year whereas cleaners and other like employees are on a very small salary. Instead of larger unions, which I believe are essential for this country, there will be a tendency through legislation such as this to divide big organisations into small groups. The smaller the groups, the more difficult it will be to get industrial peace in this country. A union can be in the situation where a small group of people, irrespective of what the main body of the union is doing, can call on an industrial dispute against the wishes of the rest of the members of that union. If the national body of any union tried to take action on that, under this legislation it would be denied the opportunity. In my opinion, this type of legislation is going to increase the number of organisations which can go on strike. There will not be the tendency in a union to try to confine a strike in a small group. Whole sections will be involved, including large sections that should not be in it. Because of this type of legislation, all types of unions will be forced into taking major action where it should not be taken. It is easy enough to get people out on strike- I can assure the Government of this- but it is jolly difficult to get them back once they are out. Anyone can talk to them, get up and inflame them into going out on strike. But it is hard to get them back. If there is only a small group of members on strike why should the rest of them then pay the penalty? I believe it is quite naive on the Government's part to bring down legislation such as this. If it sincerely believes that it will restrict strikes in this country it must remember that one cannot light small fires in large haystacks. Once it does that, by implementing this type of legislation, industrial trouble will build up and in this country it will be quite impossible to have any form of decent and respectable industrial legislation. 
This Bill is no way to go about improving industrial relations. As the Opposition said during the debate on amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, there are ways of doing it. I believe that many sections of the Australian community could and would co-operate to bring about better industrial relations, but that will not happen with legislation such as this. The Government will isolate people. It will divide this nation. It will increase the hatred between sections of the community. I believe that this Bill has been introduced for the evil purpose of trying to cover up the misdeeds of this Government in regard to inflation, unemployment and the rest. That is all it is doing. To do this to any nation, I think, is despicable. I believe the people of this nation will wake up to what is going on. I believe that at the next election this Government will most certainly feel the sting of the people. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 23 August 1979: 
1 ) What projects have been approved for funding for migrant communities as a consequence of the Review of Post Arrival Programs and Services to Migrants. 
What has been the individual cost of each project and when was each project approved. 
Which of the above projects were under consideration for funding by any Federal Government department (a) before; and (b) since, the abovementioned report. 
My question is to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. It has been reported that the  President  of the Boeing Commercial Airplane Company,  Mr E.  H. Boullion is to meet the Minister on Thursday of this week, and later Trans-Australia Airlines and Ansett Airlines of Australia. Can the Minister give an assurance to the Senate that no unfair Government pressure will be imposed on TAA or Ansett in their individual decisions to purchase the Airbus, or whatever aircraft they decide upon, or are we again to see American big business dictating to the Australian Government and Australian companies what they should purchase? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to an article published in this morning's Melbourne  Age  by that paper's Brisbane correspondent, Mark Baker, in which it is stated that three unnamed agents of the Narcotics Bureau based in Brisbane have told the  Age  that two Queensland State members of parliament and some senior State police officers are involved in heroin smuggling? What action will he take to have these serious and highly disturbing claims investigated? 
-I refer the Leader of the Government in the Senate to my question to him last Thursday concerning allegations that two Queensland State members of Parliament and several Queensland police officers were involved in heroin smuggling, to which he replied that he would refer these extremely serious matters to the attention of the relevant Federal Ministers, and that he had no doubt that the Queensland Government would react to the report and determine whether it had any factual basis. I now ask: Is the Leader of the Government aware that, according to today's  Courier Mail,  the Queensland Cabinet, meeting yesterday in Springsure, decided that it may investigate these claims providing more information from the Williams report is made available to the Queensland Premier? Will the Federal Government provide the necessary material to the Queensland Government as a matter of urgency so that the truth of these allegations can be determined? 
Is the Minister for Social Security aware that on the Australian Broadcasting Commission program  PM  last night Julie Flynn stated that Inspector Thomas told the Sydney Central Court yesterday that he had been informed by the Commonwealth Police Commissioner,  Mr Davis,  that the Director-General of the Department of Social Security,  Mr Lanigan,  had approved in principle the payment of a sum of money to  Mr Chris  Nakis based on evidence he gave to the court? On what basis did  Mr Lanigan  give this approval and was he authorised to do so? Has the Minister discussed this matter at any time with the head of her Department? If so, will she give the Senate the details of that discussion? 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General. On Thursday, 15 November, in answer to a question from  Senator Melzer  as to whether it was unprecedented both to give a pardon and to offer a sum of money for assistance to the police, the Attorney-General stated that there was no record of this happening in recent years and it concerned him greatly. Has the Attorney-General now considered the matter and can he confirm this action to be not only unprecedented but also highly improper? 
-The debate on the Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 1979-80 gives honourable senators who did not debate the Budget the opportunity to speak.  Senator Hamer  gave us quite a lecture on what power is all about. People who have it can increase their power and those who have not cannot do so. The haves have always looked after themselves and the have nots have always been condemned, and so it is in this country. The 1979-80 Budget has been described by reputable economists as the most contractionary Budget ever produced by any government in the last 30 years. The Department of the Treasury has estimated that in 1979-80, wages will rise by nine per cent, inflation will exceed 10 per cent and probably will go to 12 per cent in the coming year. The total tax collections from individuals will increase by 18.2 per cent and profits, oil taxes and levies are expected to yield almost $3, 000m in the next year. This represents an increase of 42 per cent over last year. 
With almost half the retail prices of petrol going to the Federal Treasury, every petrol pump has become a tax collection office. An average driver now pays more than $8 a week more in fuel tax and levies, which represents almost $430 to $500 a year paid into Federal coffers. When honourable senators consider this and take into account the fact that there was a 1 5 per cent increase in customs duty over the past year, and the savage increases in health insurance costs, the outcome is quite clear. The purchasing power of families has been reduced sharply, resulting in a tightening of demand for goods and services. Accordingly, there will be fewer and fewer jobs in the next year. This is a fact which the Department of Employment and Youth Affairs confirmed in a recent report to the Government. The report estimated that under present policies unemployment is expected to increase by 50,000 to 60,000 up to 1 983. 
If honourable senators look at what this Government has done to petrol prices in this country and what effect they have had, they will see that the poorer people in our community are the worst hit. The people who have the least resources have been forced into the outer suburbs. Consequently, in many of our cities public transport is inadequate or virtually non-existent. People who live in outer suburbs are forced to use their vehicles to travel to and from work. These are the people who can least afford the petrol taxes that are imposed by this Government. With $3,000m extra in revenue coming into the Federal coffers, one would expect that a government which is planning for the future would look to our energy and transportation needs. Transport costs in Australia have always been far in excess of those of many other countries. 
Virtually nothing is planned to supplement our fuel supplies and to increase our public or country transport systems. With this increase in revenue it would be expected that a reasonable government would do much more research than has been done. Fuel will become scarcer and dearer. The days of cheap fuel are finished, whether we like it or not. At this time if we do not start planning to supplement our fuel supplies, we will be in desperate trouble. Communities will become isolated. Rural areas will not be able to get their crops to the seaboard unless there is proper planning in transportation. It is well known that ethanol is a fuel that can be produced from a vegetable product. We have taken no steps to do this, and yet we should be. Our fuel supplies can be extended well past the year 2,000 by increasing ethanol production. The only ethanol production at the present moment is in Queensland. It is produced from sugar cane, but ethanol can be produced from any vegetable matter. Petrol can be mixed with ethanol to the extent of 20 per cent without any effect and without having to alter the present internal combustion engine. Diesel fuel can be mixed to the tune of 40 per cent without altering the diesel motor. If this were done our oil supplies could be extended. We should be doing this. It is estimated by scientists that it will take 50 years to come up with a permanent alternative fuel supply. This country which depends on fuel does not take any heed of this situation. It has no long term planning in this regard. I believe that that is unforgiveable. A government has to be condemned for taking that attitude. 
Let us get back to the 1979 Budget just to see how discriminating it is. The young married people of this country have been severely discriminated against. Let us take into account the fact that there will be an increase in wages in the next year of 9 per cent and that people on very low incomes will pay extra tax. If we take as an.example a person on a salary of $5,750 we see that that person 's income in 1 979-80 with an increase of 9 per cent will be $6,267. This year, a person on a salary of $5,750, will pay $25.09 in taxation. Next year, that is 1979-80, that person will pay $188.24. That person's purchasing power will not increase one per cent. It will remain the same. Yet a person's effective tax increase for that year rises 588.31 per cent. I am speaking of a married couple, where the breadwinner has just a dependent wife. If one takes a person earning a salary of $6,000 in the year 1 978- 79, with a 9 per cent increase in wages in 1979- 80, that taxpayer's salary will rise to $6,540. In the 1978-79 tax income year that taxpayer paid $108.84. In the year 1979-80 that same taxpayer, having virtually the same income and the same purchasing power, will pay $278.36, which gives an effective tax increase of $134.63 percent. 
Let us take an example of a person on the top income scale who earns $50,000 a year. In 1978-79, if that person with a dependent wife earned $50,000 , he would pay $21,873.48 in taxation. In 1979-80 he will pay $24,423.37. The effective tax increase for a person on $50,000 with a dependent spouse will be 2.44 per cent against a person on the lower income scale of $5,750 whose tax increases will be 588.31 per cent. The lower income earners are forced to live in the outer suburbs. People with an income of $6,000 should not be paying tax. It is impossible for a man, keeping a wife, to live with any reasonable security on $6,000.I believe that such tax increases are totally unjustified. I ask honourable senators to look further at what is happening with the added petrol taxes of which I have spoken and with the increases in hospital and medical insurance. 
The increase in the family allowance scheme means that the low income earner with a dependent spouse will pay a greater increase in taxation than the high to very high income earners. Also likely to be caught in the tax grab are pensioners. Because of tax increase exemptions, the limit of $3,892 has not been adjusted upwards in accordance with the pension increases. When the family allowance scheme was introduced in 1976, the Prime Minister,  Mr Malcolm  Fraser, promoted it as a great breakthrough for the families. I shall go through some of those contentions just to show people who feel that they have been well dealt with by this Government, what the true position is. The scheme replaced the system of tax deduction allowances for dependent children. The cost of each scheme from public revenue was about identical. All that happened was that the allowances were paid to supporting parents instead of tax deductions being allowed to the family breadwinner. 
Because family allowances have remained frozen since the 1976 levels, their value has become sharply reduced by inflation. The weekly loss to a family with one child is $2.50; with two children it is $3.40; with three children it is $4. 10; and with four children it is $5.20. That was the scheme that  Mr Fraser  said was a great breakthrough for the family. People on low incomes have been continually robbed by this Government. Every time we on this side of the House have asked questions, especially of  Senator Carrick,  the only answers that we have received are that the Whitlam Government was a high tax government. This Liberal Government has remained a high tax government but the people of this country have received no benefits for the tax that they have paid. We have heard a great deal from  Mr Howard  about his stopping the tax dodgers. That has not happened. It has just been words. The lower to middle income groups have footed the Australian tax bill. They are the main contributors to the tax purse of this government. The $6,000 to $15,000 income earners are the main contributors to tax revenue. I believe that that is unjustified. 
The people who control the great wealth of this country are virtually paying very little for the privileges that they receive. Many wealthy international combines have come to this nation to exploit it and very few plums or benefits have been given to the Australian people. All that we have is unemployment with its misery and insecurity that are continually destroying the family structure in this country. I do not believe that it is reasonable- it is just unbelievable- that a government would allow such a position to prevail. When one considers that this country with its great mineral resources, has a very small population- we probably would not be able to get more than seven million people in to the work force- and that the population is reasonably well educated and healthy it is clear that this country should not have the problems that it is facing today. One has then to look at why the problems are being faced by an increasingly large number of Australians. 
This Government makes the claim that it has been in government for 27 years. A Labor Government was in office for little over three years during the last 30 years. To point to the Whitlam years and say that the Whitlam Government destroyed the economy of this nation does not do this Government any credit. Liberal governments in this country have progressively given away this country to foreign investors. They have betrayed the heritage of the Australian people which I believe in itself is a disgrace. I want to point to a few illustrations of what this Government has done and how unfair it is to the small people. I would draw attention to a report of what  Mr Howard  said on 27 August. The report states: 
The Treasurer,  Mr Howard,  has proposed a joint FederalState approach to end the loading in industrial awards. 
He told a businessmen's breakfast in Brisbane yesterday that the loading was a ridiculous impost and an over-indulgence. 
I am one of the people in Australia who helped to get holiday and long service loadings for employees in this country. Going back some 20 years when I was associated with the Waterside Workers Federation I put forward the suggestion that workers in this country should be paid a holiday loading. I also believe that Federal governments should establish holiday centres throughout Australia. I did a lot of research not only of people in my union by also of people across the spectrum of society in Australia. I found at that time that some 50 per cent of Australians did not go on annual leave. I was amazed by what I found from my narrow investigation. It could only be described as a narrow investigation although I did it as thoroughly as I could. I found that families broke up because they could not afford holidays. 1 found that deliquency and social ills arose out of families not being able to afford an annual holiday. I believe that governments and employers should look at this problem in a progressive light. 
I think that if research was done into this area a lot of the ills in our country could be overcome. People who continually do not have a break from the humdrum of our society cannot survive. We are prepared to build hospitals and to provide all other services but we do not look at what is happening to the structure of the family. I believe that it is important for a family at least once a year to get away and have a break from what they have been doing for the rest of the year. I believe they would then be better employees and better citizens in the community. One day that will come. 
I believe that a 100 per cent holiday loading should be given and that Federal governments should set up holiday centres throughout Australia so that people can enjoy a break. This would not only benefit the working people of this natin but also would create a new industry which we desperately need so that we can employ the young unemployed people. They are well worth considering. I do not think that simply to criticise some of these systems out of hand without looking deeply into the pros and cons of them does  Mr Howard  or anybody else on the Government side any credit. I believe that holiday loadings are needed. The trade union movement will not tolerate the doing away with them. One day workers will have a 100 per cent loading and I hope that day is in the near future. 
Another question that I want to raise at this moment shows just how tough this Government makes life for little people and how miserable it can be. On 13 August I had an inquiry from a  Mr Roy  Baynes, the Secretary of the AustraliaChina Society in Adelaide. He contacted me about a Chinese seaman from the People's Republic of China who came to Australia on a ship called the  Fujin Hai.  It was tied up at Berth 20 in Port Adelaide. Customs officers went aboard this ship, as is their normal practice, to search for drugs or contraband, for which I give them full credit. In my experience they do a magnificent job. On the ship they came across a small computer that was used by a cadet on that ship. They confiscated the computer but later returned it when they found that it belonged to the cadet. All seamen who come into Australian ports have to declare any watches or other personal possessions. A seaman on this vessel,  Mr Yong,  failed to declare one Seilo watch that he had bought in Japan for, I understand, about $50. He also had another watch that he wore and which he had declared. He had the new Seiko watch quite openly in his drawer and made no attempt to hide it; it was simply that he failed to fill out a very complicated form. I have those forms here. An English speaking person would want to be a Philadelphian lawyer to fill out the forms. I find it hard to believe that no compassion was shown towards a Chinese speaking person who spoke no English. The upshot of it was that the customs authority took possession of this watch. I might point out that $50 represented some three months work to a seaman from China. It is a substantial loss to that seaman. 
I wrote to the head man at the Customs Bureau, a  Mr Cody,  and he admitted that no attempt had been made to hide the watch but said that he could not take it upon himself to return it. Consequently I wrote to the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife).  I presented the whole case, together with a letter from  Mr Cody.  I also asked that the customs forms be better explained, that in Chinese and other foreign languages be used, so that seamen coming into this country would understand them. I am concerned because  Mr Fife  refused to give that watch back. He also said that he did not think it was practical to inform the Chinese authorities of the requirements. He said that the forms are laid down and it is up to the Chinese seamen to decipher them. The Chinese Embassy got in touch with me about this matter in the early stages. It was very concerned that one of its nationals would break an Australian law. I assured them that the seaman, Yong, did not deliberately attempt to break that law; that it was simply a mistake on his part. 
I and a number of people have been trying to build up trade with China and many other countries yet in this case we have virtually stolen a watch from a seaman who will have to work for three months to recover the cost.  Mr Fife  refused to return the watch to him. This shows the attitude of this Government. It has no compassion for people on the lower structure. This Government considers anyone who has not got a million dollars or the prospect of getting a million dollars as guilty. One is guilty of a crime unless one is wealthy. With the Government taking that attitude one day the people will rise up against it. The Government cannot continually subject people on the lower structure of incomes to all the injustices that have been going on. 
There are many injustices that one can point to. We should look at what has happened in many other countries. In Harlem in the United States there was a ghetto where people were deprived and depressed. No action was taken by the Government to alleviate that situation. Today Harlem is one of the great hell holes of the world. Violence, corruption and rot erupts from there. If we want our society to be free of violence, if we want a free and good society, we should have compassion for people who are not wealthy. Unless we take heed of those things Australia as we know it will disappear. I believe that is a bad thing for this country. People who have power should exercise it with compassion. Unless one considers other people 's rights in this country, or anywhere in the world, people with power who use it as a weapon will lose that power one day. There are many other aspects I could raise. I said I would not speak for very long but I notice that I have been speaking for 30 minutes. I condemn the Budget. I condemn the attitude of this Government for not taking into account people in the lower strata of our society. I believe that this Government is failing in its duty. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a first time. 
-I present the following petition from 493 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That whereas the 'Have a go, Australia' advertisements currently screened on commercial television portray an Australian continent populated entirely by people with pink, anglo-saxon faces and whereas this has the effect of presenting an image at variance to our real situation of a population drawn from many races and cultures and whereas, in particular, the 'Have a go, Australia' advertising ignores the Aboriginal people and their culture. 
Your petitioners therefore most humbly pray that the Members in Parliament assembled will: 
Call upon those responsible for the spending of taxpayers' money on this 'Have a go, Australia' promotion to either give Aborigines and other groups their fair place in any representation of the Australian community or cease such promotion campaign altogether. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Lead Concentrates in Motor Spirit 
-Has the Leader of the Government in the Senate heard of an association of doctors known as Doctors for Nuclear Awareness which was set up recently in Australia? Does the Minister agree with the goals of this association and, indeed, of many other Australians that there should be a moratorium on building nuclear power plants and a phasing out of existing ones, a cessation of the export of nuclear technology, extensive studies of populations exposed to nuclear radiation, nuclear weapons disarmament, and the development of conservation policies and renewable energy resources? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 9 October 1 979: 
1 ) How much time was made available to broadcast election speeches or political advertisements in respect of all political parties, other organisations and persons on each radio broadcasting station and television station in connection with the 1 979 South Australian election. 
What was the percentage distribution of time purchased by parties, interested persons or organisations, and candidates on: (a) metropolitan; and (b) country, commercial (i) radio broadcasting, and (ii) television stations. 
What were the costs charged for this time, and what was the percentage distribution of these costs. 
