In opening my maiden speech,  Mr Speaker,  I ask you to accept my congratulations on your reappointment as  Speaker  and to pass on to the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  my congratulations on his re-election as  Deputy Speaker  and  Chairman  of Committees. I should like to thank the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  and the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  for enabling me to be on the floor of this chamber at this time. If it had not been for their obstruction of vital Government legislation during the last Parliament, I would have had to wait until the end of 1975 before joining the distinguished Government benches. In December 1972 the people of Australia endorsed the policies of the Australian Labor Party and, having seen that for the first time in nearly a quarter of a century a political party in Australia in government acted on its promises and cared about people not profit, on 18 May 1974 they re-endorsed the Government's policies and the people who stood for them. 
The electorate of Isaacs which I now represent is a heterogeneous dormitary suburb consisting in some areas of high level executives and in others of skilled and semi-skilled trades people. As the electorate has 22 kilometres of beach park on the shores of Port Phillip Bay, we are deeply concerned about the polluted creeks and rivers that flow into the Bay. A survey conducted by a research team at Monash University under  Dr R.  Birrell in 1972 showed that the E. Coli counts close to recreational beaches were high. Readings of 110,000 E. Coli per 100 millilitres of water were obtained off the mouth of the Patterson River and of 18,000 E. coli per 100 millilitres of water off Mordialloc Creek. The generally accepted international safety level is 200 E. coli per 100 millilitres. In other words, two of the water courses whose lower reaches are in Isaacs cause up to 550 times the generally accepted level of pollution as measured by E. Coli counts - and this is near some of our popular recreational beaches. 
There is no doubt whatsoever what the main source of this pollution is. At the time of the survey there were 370,000 people living in unsewered properties in the Melbourne Statistical Division, and a large proportion of these are in the eastern and south-eastern suburbs drained by the 2 creeks I have just mentioned. The allocation of $13m of Federal finance to sewerage works in Victoria in the 1973-74 financial year was very welcome since not only was almost $2m earmarked for works in or very close to Isaacs but also much of the money for other areas will be of direct benefit in reducing the pollution of our watercourses and bays. I was pleased to hear the GovernorGeneral mention in his Speech last week a continued commitment to the national sewerage program. It is vital, if we are not to lose some of our accessible natural assets in Port Phillip Bay and its beaches, that sewerage and environmental conservation programs continue to receive substantial financial assistance from the Australian Government. 
There are so many things wrong in our society as a result of previous administrations, which we have not been able to put right in 18 months, that it was not easy to single out one or two areas for mention at this time. The Opposition parties, when in government, seemed to believe that everything was fixed in about 1850 or before and nothing further needed to be done. Societies are not static structures but ever-changing inter-relationships between people and between people and their environment. One of the changes to be encouraged is in the relative roles of women and men in society. Historically, men have been the breadwinners and women have stayed at home as unpaid servants for the menfolk. This is changing. At present about one-third of the work force are women and the female component of the work force is growing at about twice the male rate. What is more, the composition of the female component of the work force is changing. In 1954, 30 to 35 per cent of female workers were married. By October 1973, the proportion was 62 per cent. These figures reflect not only the improvements in the employment situation which have taken place in the past 18 months but also a growing acceptance of the equality of men and women in society. 
Immediately on taking office in 1972, the Labor Government reopened the equal pay case and helped to secure acceptance by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission of equal pay for work of equal value. The Government implemented this policy in relation to its own employees without waiting for the phasing-in period suggested by the Commission. The Opposition and employer organisations opposed the equal pay submissions all along and it was only the timely intervention of the new Labor Government that succeeded in getting the case reopened. One of the arguments put forward by the employer opponents of equal pay in the 1969 equal pay case was, by implication, that equal pay should not be granted because it would jeopardise the status of the male in the family unit. If the basis of the status of a man is that he can earn a higher income than his wife when this situation is maintained by the artificial and unjust construction of lower rates of pay for females it does not say much for the man as a person. Mind you, looking at the sort of men who represent employer interests on the other side of this House, it would be surprising if even this earned them any respect. 
Women and men should be free to seek employment with equal opportunities in all occupations, or to stay at home if they wish. In many cases, both husband and wife will wish to go out to work through either necessity or choice. Difficulties often arise in such cases over the care of children. It is very undesirable that pre-school children be left in crowded, unstimulating surroundings, as often happens when they are left with neighbours or at cheap child minding centres. Worse still are cases where children of 2 and 3 years of age are left strapped in cots all day in bare rooms while parents are out at work. When such children get to school they come home to an empty house or have to roam the streets until parents return. 
A comprehensive network of pre-school centres and after-school and holiday play centres is long overdue. Naturally these centres should be provided first in areas where, of financial necessity, both parents go out to work. But the aim of the Australian Labor Government is to provide such centres for all children, free of charge. Adequate controls will have to be provided to maintain the standards so that children attending them will benefit, while at the same time allowing enough flexibility to cater for local needs. An important factor to note here is that these preschool centres should be seen as places where children are educated. The socialisation process of learning to mix in a peer group, the discovery of the physical properties of common materials and objects and the learning of physical manipulative skills not only can be encouraged at the pre-school age but must be encouraged if the child is to stand a chance of developing to its full potential as a person later in life. The Governor-General put this in its right perspective when he referred to the provision as a major initiative in education. 
The situation of women in the employment field and the provision of child care facilities are only one part of the social question of the relative roles of the 2 sexes in the society. Boys learning needlework and girls learning metalwork at school should be just as acceptable as vice versa. To reach this position obviously will involve changes in the attitude of school teachers and social pressures. However, if we are to give any meaning to talk of equality of opportunity and status in society for men and women, the change must come in the schools and even before. It is not sufficient to ensure that job advertisements must not specify that the applicant must be of one particular sex, necessary though such legislation is, if there is not the same opportunity to get the same standard of education in whatever field may be desired. 
I look forward to the time when we have legislation prohibiting all forms of sexual discrimination as well as racial discrimination. Doubtless many men will feel uncomfortable at the thought of such an era, they are so imbued with the idea of their own superiority. Certainly it is probably very nice to come home to a meal all ready to eat, to children who are all ready for bed and who know that they must not bother dad because he has had a hard day at the office, and to an evening in front of the television. Easy though that is they should stop to think about what has gone into creating this feudal lordship atmosphere in the twentieth Century. It is no wonder that women in their 40s have the highest rate of consumption of drugs in the society. This is no reflection on the women; it is a reflection on the society which has kept them captive in a 13-square prison to minister to the every need of their male masters. 
I have spent a short time discussing the discrimination against one very large section of the Australian society. I want now to turn to another form of discrimination which has existed for many years in Australia. I am referring here to the racist attitudes of the white majority in relation to the Aboriginal people. For more than 200 years the white rulers in Australia have treated Aborigines as less than human. Only in the last 18 months has an Australian government begun to recognise the rights of these people. The Australian people gave the Australian Government power to overrule the State governments in matters of Aboriginal affairs and to legislate on behalf of the Aborigines. The previous governments did not act in any meaningful way on that legislation. This is hardly surprising when we consider the stance taken by members of the previous Government in 1971. Honourable members may remember that during that year a team of white rugby players from South Africa visited Australia as ambassadors of apartheid. The people of Australia voiced their opposition to the tour, but so keen was the then Prime Minister to show his support for racism that he threatened to use the Royal Australian Air Force to transport the team if necessary to ensure that the tour continued. 
In the sovereign State of Queensland, that great believer in equality and democracy, Johannes Bjelke-Petersen, considered the tour of such national importance that he declared a state of emergency for the duration of the tour in his State. Is it any wonder then, with such records for the governments of the 2 areas of Australia with the two largest Aboriginal populations, that these people are not getting justice? The Australian Government that took office in December 1972 has made some moves in the right direction in relation to the Aboriginal people. The Commission of Inquiry set up in February 1973 headed by  Mr Justice  Woodward brought down its report in April this year. It was tabled in this House only this week. The recommendations contained in the report go a long way to meeting the demands of the Aboriginal people within the limits of the terms of the Commission, which were essentially on the question of Aboriginal land rights in the Northern Territory. The report essentially recognises the rights of Aboriginal people to have control over land on which they live through a lands commission of Aboriginal people. The report does not deal with land rights in the States nor with other areas of recognition of the rights of Aborigines. But it is a step in the right direction and marks an advance over the attitude of previous Australian governments. 
Another area in which we plan io take fairly immediate steps is in the field of the Queensland and Torres Straits Islands Acts. These pieces of legislation would be applauded by the Hitlers, Vorsters and Amins of this world. They are a disgrace to any democratic government. The crux of this legislation is the concept of the 'assisted Aborigine' in the legislation in force until December 1971. The term was removed from the legislation in the 1971 Acts but the essential effect and implications were virtually unaltered. For example, Section 1 3 of Part II in part states:  '. . . before entering any dwelling house that is in the occupation of any person, the person seeking entry for the purpose of an inspection, investigation or inquiry shall obtain the consent of the occupier thereof or obtain from a justice a warrant that authorises such entry. 
Section 36 of Part IV states: 
subject to and in accordance with any regulations made under this Act and applicable to the grant in question, the Director may grant aid to any Aborigine who applies to him therefor and, where necessary, may apply therein money appropriated by Parliament for the purpose or money held by him for the benefit of Aborigines generally. 
subject as prescribed by the preceding subsection, aid granted under that subsection may be of such a type (in money, in kind, or by way of services) and may be granted in such circumstances, on such terms and conditions and, where granted by way of secured loan, on such security as the Director thinks fit.' 
Ensuing sections relating to management by a district officer of an Aborigine's property gives the officer absolute control over that property. This sort of legislation makes a second-class person out of an Aborigine. How degrading to have to go to some local white civil servant for a loan knowing that the official can then have complete control over your life from then on or to have your home invaded by a white official at will or to have to ask the white official for permission to visit relatives because an alien white culture happens to have drawn an imaginary line between you and your relatives for their administrative purposes. Other powers of this Act include provision for the Director to refuse an Aborigine permission to live on a reserve. Such Acts are a disgrace to the community and I look forward to the passing of legislation by the Australian Government to supersede such racist laws. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education. Does the statement of the Treasurer indicating an expenditure of $34. lm on pre-schools and child care centres mean a slowing of present expenditure in these areas of social policy? Will it represent a retarding of the training of pre-school teachers or personnel for child care centres? Can the Minister inform the House of the expenditures and allocations for the financial year just closed? How do they compare with the proposals for this year? What problems led to the tentative nature of the statement by the Treasurer that expenditure might be larger? 
Has the Minister for Overseas Trade received a letter signed by the Australian Council of Churches, Action for World Development and the Roman Catholic Church's Commission on Justice and Peace requesting him to close Australia's 2 trade commission offices in South Africa? Does the Minister in tend to take any steps to close these offices in the near future? Does he intend opening more trade commission offices in independent black African countries? 
-Is the Minister for Services and Property aware of the recently released book 'Looking at Liberals' in which one of the authors alleges that the Central Intelligence Agency channelled funds to the Opposition during the recent Federal election campaign? Does the Minister have any evidence to support this allegation? Has the Minister ordered an investigation of this serious charge and if not, does he intend to do so? 
My question is directed to the Acting Minister for Education. On 7 October last  Mr David  Hamer, the former member for Isaacs, published an article in the Melbourne 'Age' which claimed that the Government's expenditure on education had resulted in a lesser increase in the proportion of the gross national product devoted to education than had been the case under the McMahon Government. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to this article, and can he inform the House whether the claims made by  Mr Hamer  are true? 
-In supporting the estimates for the Department of Transport there are many points which I could raise, but I propose this evening to dwell on matters connected with urban transport. This is something which vitally affects my electorate which is in the outer suburbs of Melbourne. Over the years we have seen attempts by various governments to improve road facilities within the urban area. We have seen the development of freeway systems, but these have proved very ineffectual. The south-eastern freeway in Melbourne is a typical example of this. In peak hours or rush hours practically the whole length of the freeway is clogged up with a slow moving line of traffic. This is typical of the sort of thing which occurs in our urban areas. As we try to provide more and more road facilities we get more and more cars filling up the roads which we provide. 
In the 10 years between 1961-62 and 1970-71 there was a 16 per cent drop away from public transport. These people are now using private transport. This is an absolute drop in the number of passenger journeys by public transport. When we consider the increases in the numbers of people in our urban areas, we are talking about a 35 per cent drop per capita in the trips made in any one year by public transport. This is a very unsatisfactory situation. It is useless to build more and more roads while people continue to use their cars, or to provide people with the means to use their cars while we leave our public transport systems in neglect. 
Some 500 of Melbourne's train carriages are 45 years old or older. Some of them were built in the last century. Is it any wonder, then, that when surveys of travellers in various modes of transport are done those who use public transport tend to talk in terms not of the benefits of a public transport system but of the disadvantages in using the car. They do not talk about the relaxation of sitting back in the train while they are driven to work. They do not talk about the speed of the public transport system. They talk in terms of not having to park the car, and not having to worry about maintenance on the car, and many talk about not being able to afford a car. The reason for it is simply that our public transport systems have been allowed to run down so much over the years that assets which our major cities possessed in the early days are no longer assets; they are almost a liability. People travel on them only if they have to. They are uncomfortable; they are noisy; they are slow. 
A trip by train from Chelsea to the Flinders Street Station in the centre of Melbourne at best is scheduled to take 45 minutes. Many of such trips are scheduled to take 55 minutes and some even an hour. This is the scheduled time. Anybody who has travelled on public transport, particularly on our urban train systems, will know full well that the scheduled time is often 5 minutes, 10 minutes or even a quarter of an hour shorter than the actual time. On our roads the situation is little better. I have mentioned the south-eastern freeway; but for comparative purposes I point out that a road trip from Chelsea into the city or into the central business district of Melbourne will take 40 to 45 minutes even in off peak hours and in peak hours it can take an hour and a half. 
-No, this is not walking, believe it or not This is by car. This comes from drivers who have timed the trip and who are not renowned for their slow driving speeds. Such a situation is disgraceful. It is high time that we did something about our urban public transport system. We have the basic network for very good urban public transport systems in both our rail system and our tram and bus system. But government bodies have completely neglected these systems and therefore people no longer use them. 
-Perhaps that was a good thing. Perhaps that is what we should do in Melbourne. I am concerned with the facility which is provided for people in the outer urban areas to get into the centre of the city. Whatever people may say about the broadening out of the city and the decrease in the number of jobs in the centre of the city, this is a development which has not yet taken place. Even with decentralisation programs we are faced with large numbers of people wanting and needing to travel into the centre of our urban areas for work and business purposes. 
I am pleased to say that this Government- not the Victorian State Government- has provided and is providing large sums of money for this purpose. At a meeting in Chelsea in May this year the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  promised that the Government would look favourably at a suggestion to provide a third rail line on the route through the bayside suburbs of Melbourne to speed up the journey which, as I have just mentioned, takes anything from 45 minutes upwards. An amount of $500,000 was put aside last financial year for this project, which is estimated to cost a total of $6.1m. More money has been promised in this financial year to the extent of $ 1.67m, and another $1.93m is planned for 1975-76. This will go towards providing twothirds of the cost of that third rail line. It is absolutely ridiculous that in this day and age a journey of 20 miles can take nearly an hour on a system of transport which has its own reserved right of way with no interference from cross traffic. This third rail line will assist in speeding up that journey for people living in the bayside suburbs. This is not the only thing the Government is doing to help the urban train passengers. Recently the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  opened the Australian urban passenger train display in Melbourne. This display is designed to provide fast, comfortable transport for the train user. 
-In entering this debate on education I do so as a person who has seen the inside of the State education system in Victoria and who has still got close contacts with that system. On Sunday I went to a speech day and the opening of an assembly hall at one of the independent schools in my electorate. I looked around the school at the facilities there and I could well understand why parents who have no choice but to send their children to government schools are concerned about the amount of money this Government is giving to independent schools, because the facilities at this particular school were far in advance of anything we can find at government schools in a similar area. Yet this school was a category G school, which means that whereas when the Labor Party came into office it was receiving $104 per child from the per capita grants this year it will be receiving from the Government $ 141 per child and next year can expect to receive $230 per child in per capita grants. On these figures, I do not see how such schools can claim that the Labor Government is trying to run them down and put them out of business. 
Let us look at the figures which have been produced by the Government on expenditure on non government schools in the States. In 1 97 1 -72 under a Liberal-Country Party Government just over $36m was expended. The expenditure in 1972-73 was $47.7m and in 1973-74, under the first full year of a Labor Government, the expenditure was $70m. The estimates for 1974-75 provide for an expenditure of $ 120.8m. There have been large increases in the funds available to non government schools yet people have been crying out that the Government is trying to starve the non government schools. People are complaining that they are getting less money. The honourable member for Deakin  (Mr Jarman)  mentioned places such as Wesley College. I am surprised that he did not also bring in places such as Scotch College and Melbourne Grammar. Such schools are certainly getting less from us than they did from the previous Liberal-Country Party Government, but the reason for this is fairly straightforward. By any criterion which looks at incomes across the board in our community, the parents who send their children to these schools are wealthy. An average salary of $10,000 to $12,000 a year is received by parents who send their children to independent schools while two-thirds of the population is getting an average salary of less than $7,000; yet the honourable member claims that the parents of those children are not wealthy. Come on, now. 
Let us really consider the true situation and just what sort of people can afford to send their children to independent schools. We hear very glib talk about freedom of choice. How many families with an income of $4,000, $5,000 or even $6,000 a year can afford the freedom of choice to send their children to independent schools which have school fees of $300, $400 or $500 a year? 
-How many want to, the honourable member asks. Indeed, how many ever get round to thinking that they have any real choice. Many of them would not want to. They have not thought about it because they realise that it is not a viable alternative for them. 
Another point I would like to mention in this debate is the situation within the State system in Victoria. We have had several examples recently of Liberal politicians in the State of Victoria saying: 'Yes, we know that the system is in a bad way'. I can cite an example in my electorate of a State high school whose only library facilities are a few shelves in an ordinary classroom. Children just cannot use that library while a class is in that room, which is most of the time because the school is short of facilities for ordinary teaching purposes anyway and has to send children home in the middle of the afternoon. I know of another State primary school which has such poor drainage faculties that in wet weather, particularly during winter, children often have to be sent home because the toilets have been closed as the septic tanks have overflowed. I refer to the Aspendale state school. The previous school I mentioned was the Mordialloc-Chelsea High 
School. In respect to another school in my electoratethe Mordialloc primary school- Roy Ward, a member of the Upper House in the State Parliament has said: 'Yes, plans have been approved for new toilets for this school but we cannot do anything about it until we get more money from that miserly socialist government in Canberra'. What utter rot. 
The appropriation in the last financial year- 1 973-74- for government schools in Victoria was $28.95m and the expenditure was $22. 8m, an underspending of some $6. 15m by the State Government. The money was available from the Australian Government but the State Government in Victoria did not take advantage of the money that was available. It did not spend the money. Why did it not spend the money? That is a question which we should be asking the State Government. The money is there if the States choose to use it and more money will be available this year. The State of Victoria will have $75.5m available for government schools. I will be very interested to see how the State Government in Victoria spends that money and how much of that money is left at the end of the year. It is high time people realised the true situation and why the money which we are making available for government schools is not getting through. Interesting comparisons can be made with the non government schools, which are spending practically all of their appropriations. For example, the Australian Government set aside $24.8m for Victoria in the last financial year and the non government schools spent $23.4m of it. Practically all of the money made available to the non government schools was spent. How is it that the non government schools can spend the money and the State Government, while crying poor mouth and saying that it needs more money, does not spend the money available to it? 
I welcome this Bill most heartily and wish to give it my full support. It covers quite a wide range of issues and works by the State governments in cooperation with the Australian Government. That point does need to be emphasised. In spite of what Opposition speakers have said this afternoon, the work that is being carried out is being done by the States in co-operation with the Australian Government. It seems quite absurd to me to sit here and to listen to honourable members opposite criticising this Government for overcentralisation and having too much control over these projects. I wonder what would happen if we were to say to the States: 'Here is a cheque for so many hundreds of thousands of dollars from the Department of Urban and Regional Development. Do what you like with it. We are not going to ask any questions. You need not tell us what you have done with it.' I am sure that there quickly would be cries of rage about lack of responsibility on our part if we did not make sure that the States were answerable to us for the way in which they spent our money in the same way as Ministers are answerable to the Parliament for what they are doing. 
I want to see this Bill passed quickly and the money made available to the States. There are 2 matters which I wish to mention. One concerns the Land Commission program. I welcome the money which is being made available to the Victorian Government for the acquisition of land on the Mornington Peninsula. The city of Melbourne relies most heavily on this area for its recreational activities at weekends throughout the year. People not only from Victoria but also from many other parts of Australia rely on this area for their recreational activities during the summer period. It is refreshing to note that the Australian Government is taking an interest in reserving these areas for the use of the Australian public. 
The other matter is the national sewerage program. It is most regrettable that such a program is needed. It is regrettable that, in the past, the State governments have not been able for one reason or another to keep up with the provision of sewerage services to the community, particularly in the larger cities, and that previous Australian governments have not seen the assistance of the States in this work as part of their function. The Australian Government that came into office in 1972 has realised the need for a crash program of sewerage works to reduce the backlog in the provision of sewerage works in the major cities. At a later stage this program will doubtless be expanded to other rural centres. 
Port Phillip Bay is pan of the recreational area to which I alluded earlier in reference to Mornington Peninsula. It is a necessary part of that recreational complex. It is a crying shame and a sad reflection on our society that that area of water which could be such an asset to the community is so polluted because of the lack of sewerage systems particularly in the eastern and south-eastern suburbs of Melbourne. The Parliament and the population should be aware that improvements in the quality of the water of Port Phillip Bay will be helped by the sewerage programs which will be able to proceed in the bayside suburbs because of assistance provided by the Australian Government. Not only work in these areas will help to improve the quality of water in Port Phillip Bay, but the work in a large proportion of the eastern and south-eastern suburbs will also assist because the whole of the Dandenong Valley Authority area drains into Port Phillip Bay. If pollution from septic tanks and drainage easements gets into various creeks in their upper reaches, this pollution is carried "down and compounded as other pollution gets into the creeks as they progress towards the Bay. 
The Dandenong Valley Authority area contains suburbs as far away from the beaches of Port Phillip Bay as Ringwood and Berwick. It also includes suburbs such as Sandringham and parts of Moorabbin and Cranbourne. It is not only the immediate bayside suburbs of Chelsea, Mordialloc and Sandringham which affect the quality of waters in the Mordialloc Creek and Patterson River. In the last financial year, 1973-74, the Australian Government provided $4.8m for sewerage works in the cities of Chelsea, Moorabbin, Springvale and Dandenong. It is expected that a large proportion of the money being made available to the Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of Works this year will go into works in the areas which I have just mentionedthe areas which are drained by the Mordialloc Creek, the Patterson River and the Kananook Creek. Through this Bill we are also providing about $3m to the sewerage authorities on the fringe of the metropolitan area, such as the Dandenong Sewerage Authority. 
I do not wish to expand any further on the effect that this sewerage program will have on the quality of life in the bayside suburbs, except to mention that I know one local government authority which will welcome the news of the provision of this money- the Mordialloc Council. It has underway at present a study for a program to upgrade the land abutting the Mordialloc Creek within its municipality. But this work will not achieve its aims of providing an attractive recreational reserve for the use of Melbourne residents if the waters of the creek on which the projected program is centred remain polluted. There is little that the Mordialloc Council itself can do about the actual pollution in the creek, because, as I have already indicated, most of the pollution comes from further upstream and it is far too late once the water gets into the city of Mordialloc's jurisdiction for the Council to be able to do much about it. So for its program to go ahead meaningfully and for it to be effective in its final aim, this sewerage money needs to be spent. I do not wish to take up any more time of this House, except again to express my wholehearted support for this Bill. 
-Having just listened to about half an hour of verbosity from the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  who sits opposite, I state that I still have no possible explanation of why he is really opposed to this legislation except to conclude that what he really seeks is to perpetuate in this country the existing situation in which people can and do commit acts which discriminate against people of particular races and hide behind supposed rights at law in order to protect themselves from being brought to justice for committing these acts. The honourable member suggested that this Bill is a preposterous imposition on the rights of individuals. Yet in 1965-10 years agothe Race Relations Act was passed in the United Kingdom. It forms the basis not only of the Bill we are discussing tonight but also of succeeding legislation in the United Kingdom, New Zealand, Canada and the United States of America. 
There can be no doubt that in Australia since the white man arrived there has been a history of racial discrimination against the Aboriginal people. I quote from F. S. Stevens' introduction to 'Racism- the Australian Experience'. He says: 
From the broadest construction of the term 'racist', down to the inter-personal relationships between Aborigines and Europeans in Australian society, it is difficult to deny that prejudice exists and that this prejudice, over the years, has been erected into a functional system. The external manifestations of prejudice might be witnessed daily throughout the country. The relative situation and standing of the  indigenous community also demonstrates that Australians of European origin are prepared to employ a different standard of social, political, economic and legal behaviour when applied to individuals of different genetic origin from that which they would apply to people 'of their own kind '. 
I suggest that this is just the sort of situation which the honourable member wishes to perpetuate. I have been informed by a note which has just been passed to me that the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  has used some words in relation to me which would be very unparliamentary if they were to be recorded in Hansard. 
Debate interrupted. 
-When the debate on this Bill was adjourned on 6 March 1975 I was commenting on remarks passed by the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay).  When I began to address the House the honourable member was heard to comment, in reference to me, 'A bloody Pommy bastard'.  Mr Speaker,  I would not lower myself to ask for an apology from a person who would make such a despicable remark. I do not consider that I am any better or worse than anyone else simply because of my English background. The honourable member is becoming infamous for his bigoted racist comments. The honourable member is the same  Mr McLeay  who, in 1970, appeared on television in Zimbabwe singing the praises of the illegal Smith regime and praising that traitor Smith at the same time. He is not alone. Many members and former members on the other side of the House hold basically racist attitudes. For 13 years the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  contributed to publications of one  Mr Eric  Butler, a raving antiSemitic megalomaniac and author of the publication 'International Jew'. Even when challenged in the House about his associations with  Mr Butler's  League of Rights the honourable member avoided dissociating himself from the League of Rights. 
In 1972 we had the spectacle of the then member for Evans,  Dr Mackay,  and the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  addressing meetings during Captive Nations Week, a week of political activism backed by that gloriously radical organisation, the National Socialist Party. 
I was not . told that. This organisation in 1971 aroused the spontaneous indignation and ire of the people of Melbourne to the extent that the Nazis needed police protection in the journey back to their headquarters. Their peaceful nature came bounding forth when they returned; they fired shots at people walking past on the footpaths. 
Before I spoke about the remarks from the honourable member for Boothby I referred to and quoted from F. S. Stevens' introduction to 'Racism-The Australian Experience'. Many people think that there is no racial discrimination in this country. On the contrary, racial discrimination is found at the highest levels. We have the recent example in Western Australia of the Premier,  Sir Charles  Court, resisting the Australian Government's Royal Commission into allegations of police brutality when dealing with Aborigines. Further to our north, Queensland Premier Bjelke-Petersen has resisted Australian Government initiative to give land rights to Aborigines. If Aborigines were given land where they could lead their own lives in peace, the source of cheap labour would soon dry up. Queensland is only one State where Aboriginal people are classed as inferior citizens. 
Discrimination exists everywhere. Many examples might be thought to be un-Australian, but they happen. A Citizens Advice Bureau reports that a client answered an advertisement for a flat. He was told that because he was a migrant he must get from his employer a guarantee for rent payment. When a Bureau staff member contacted the estate agent, she was told: 'These people cannot be trusted and experience has shown that we must demand a guarantee'. A principal of a local school stated recently: "The South American children at this school are causing a lot of problems'. People who are not citizens cannot join the Public Service or the armed Services. People appearing in court cases very often must provide their own interpreters. Interpreters are very expensive and, on many occasions, people appear without interpreters because they cannot afford the expense involved. 
The first people to become unemployed are unskilled, non-English-speaking migrants. Some employers now state clearly that only Englishspeaking workers need apply for positions. A local government authority submitted to the Grants Commission recently among other proposals in support of its need for extra funds the proposition that one of its housing estates contained mainly English and Irish migrants who were bad debtors with respect to council rates as 20 per cent of that authority's non-payers came from the estate in question. These 6 examples are only the tip of the iceberg. The Racial Discrimination Bill is long overdue. 
With such bigoted persons as those to whom I referred adorning the Opposition benches, is there any wonder that when they were in government they never introduced a Bill to ratify the International Convention on Racial Discrimination? But the Labor Government has taken advantage of the delay to observe the operation of similar legislation in other countries. The Race 
Relations Board in Britain, which carries out similar functions to those to be performed by our proposed Commissioner for Community Relations, has recommended amendments to its legislation in the light of its experience. These recommendations include giving the Board power not to act if the complaint is trivial or the complainant no longer wishes to continue with it, making it unlawful to discriminate on the grounds of nationality, and recognising that the complainant should have the right to go direct to court if he or she so desires. These and many other improvements have been incorporated in the Bill before the House. I do not pretend that the legislation will alter the real life situation overnight. But it will enable positive action to be taken against such discriminatory activities and it will help mould community attitudes, not only because of the existence of the legislation but also because the Commissioner will have the power to promote education and research. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Will the Minister for Social Security inform the House how pensioner medical services will be affected by the introduction of Medibank? What provision will be made for the fringe benefits pensioners currently receive on their pensioner medical cards? 
-I address my question to the Minister for Social Security. Has the Minister seen a card being distributed to households in Victoria by Hospital Benefits Association advising people to maintain their contributions after the introduction of Medibank on 1 July and informing people of its advisory service? Is the Minister intending to leave the job of informing the public about the effects of Medibank to those with vested interests in misleading the public, or will he give consideration to setting up an advisory service within his own Department? 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Education. On 6 April 1975 he announced secondary school library grants totalling $629,269. Amongst the schools listed as recipients of grants were a number which might not generally be considered to be in need. Could he explain to the House how this situation arises, in view of the Government's expressed policy of distributing funds on a needs basis? 
-There seems to be some confusion within the community concerning the Grants Commission. Many people seem to think that the Grants Commission was brought into existence by the Whitlam Government. In fact it was formed and has been in existence since 1933. Since that time grants totalling many millions of dollars have been provided to State governments, but it was only in 1973 that for the first time the Australian Government asked the Grants Commission to recommend grants to local government. These grants were designed to reduce inequalities between local governing bodies in the provision of ordinary services. The Commission brought down its first report last August and the Government implemented its proposals without amendment in the spring session of the Parliament as is the custom with Grants Commission recommendations. 
The grants are being made to the States for payment to local governing bodies to supplement their general revenues so that they can provide a standard of service comparable with that of neighbouring councils. I emphasise the point that the grants are made through the States. A number of speakers on the opposite side of the chamber have claimed that the grants should be made to the States and that is what is happening. These grants are not meant to be a substitute for revenues raised by established methods such as rates and service charges, and they will not replace normal State government assistance. No conditions are being attached to the spending of the money granted. Local government bodies have welcomed this nostrings provision. Initially some local government bodies were understandably suspicious because of their experience with previous governments ignoring their needs. Some councils refused to submit proposals last year, such was their paranoia about central control of their activities. Now that the first series of grants has been made and the councils can see that the present Government is one which carries out its promises, unlike our Liberal-Country Party predecessors, they are far more willing to co-operate in this exercise. 
The Grants Commission administers each grant very fairly. The Government has asked the Commission to recommend financial amounts to balance requirements of all local authorities. It is obvious that in some years some councils will receive more assistance than others but any suggestion of political bias on the part of the members of the Commission is a reflection on the integrity of those persons and a charge which the Government would totally reject. Many councils are faced with severe financial problems in providing municipal services of a proper standard. These grants will help enormously in reducing hardships. The Grants Commission relies on the co-operation of councils. Councils are being asked to provide comprehensive, up-to-date financial and statistical information to the Commission, and the Commission has used this information as the basis of its assessments. The members of the Commission have not only been conducting public hearings to take this sort of evidence, but they have also been making direct inspections of many areas. This is necessary since some areas have peculiar and specific requirements. For example, councils in seaside and other recreational areas need to provide services not only to the ratepayers but also to many thousands of day visitors, vocational recrea.tionalists, caravaners and so on. These visitors may come from many miles away but they still need the facilities which are provided by the local government authorities where they are staying. 
The money for these facilities cannot always be raised by established methods, and the Aus.tralian Government is seeking to bridge the gap. If all the money had to be raised by established methods, we would see many councils following the example of the Phillip Island council in Victoria. Phillip Island has a tiny population of about 1500 voters but it pays the highest rates in the State. These high rates enable visitors only to view penguins and watch car races. I am not trying to decry these activities but I am pointing out that these are primarily activities for visitors outside the municipality Local government authorities do put money from the Grants Commission to good use. The House may be interested in just a few of the activities to which some of the municipalities in my own area have put some of their money. In 1974 the city of Mordialloc received $105,000. Of this amount, $18,000 was spent on foreshore regeneration, which is an expensive and on-going but very necessary form of work in a recreational area; $19,000 was spent on footpath reconstruction; a further $12,000 is being used to improve other reserves in the municipality; another $4,000 is to be used on specific works - 
-Has the Minister for Social Security noted criticism of the Government's interest in a national superannuation scheme coming from such disinterested, self-denying organisations as the wealthy insurance companies, especially the Australian Mutual Provident Society? What evidence is there that private insurance companies adequately cater for the retirement needs of the community and that the interest of the Australian Government in national superannuation should be peripheral, unimportant and, in fact, can be discarded? 
-Can the Special Minister of State explain to the House the purpose of the Prices Justification Tribunal and the role it plays in the economy of this country? 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
What are the main recommendations of the Australian Schools Commission for the next triennium? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security and Minister for Repatriation and Compensation. Can the Minister explain the effect to the patient of not returning his accounts with his 
Medibank refund? Will those with supplementary insurance still be able to obtain their additional rebates? 
I direct a question to the Prime Minister in his capacity as Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs. Can he inform the House of any United Nations conventions against discrimination between the sexes, particularly as they apply to sport? How do the contrasting actions of the usual captains of the parliamentary cricket team and the parliamentary Press gallery cricket team in relation to the participation of a female senator in this traditional cricket match accord with the spirit of any such UN conventions? 
I rise to air my grievance about the disgraceful situation which is developing in some areas and which is being spurred on by certain members of the medical profession. The situation concerns the opposition of a few doctors to Medibank and the holding to ransom of pensioner patients. These doctors are using pensioner patients as political pawns. I stress that only some doctors are involved; most are reasonable, but some act in a way to give their profession a bad name. We have all heard about or have seen signs on surgery walls offering a discount from the doctor for cash for a consultation. This indicates the cost to doctors of collecting patients' payments, yet some still oppose bulk billing under Medibank. Now we have doctors telling pensioner patients that they must pay cash for every consultation, then claim from Medibank. 
In 1973 a group of doctors tried to use the shortcomings of the Pensioner Medical Service system against the Labor Government. They said that they were opting out of the PMS because it did not give pensioners sufficient coverage, even though the scheme was identical to that instituted by the previous Liberal governments. In a letter published in my local Press at the time and signed by 15 local doctors, the doctors claimed that they would treat pensioners free of charge. What an insult to the pensioners that they should have to rely on such charity. The letter said that the signatories were resigning from the PMS- resigning, the good doctors explained, did not mean that they were refusing to treat pensioner patients; resigning meant that they were refusing to accept any money from the Government for this service. The doctors assured the readers that their action was taken for a number of reasons, the main one being that the pensioners had been entitled only to the most meagre medical attention. Here I think the Government would agree that the previous PMS system had shortcomings. The medical fraternity had repeatedly requested governments to upgrade the PMS to the level of that enjoyed by privately insured members of the general public. I think again that Government supporters would say 'Hear, hear' to such a suggestion. But under Medibank the facilities have been expanded and improved. Indeed, it is the Government's intention that they should be improved and that pensioners should get exactly the same treatment and opportunities as people who can afford private health insurance. 
Yet some doctors are now refusing to bulk bill for pensioners and are demanding cash for service even though the deficiencies in services provided under PMS about which those doctors were complaining are being made good under Medibank if the doctors agree to bulk bill. They are refusing to bulk bill even though they will receive 85 per cent of the agreed fee instead of the 60 per cent they received under the PMS. In March this year the Minister for Social Security wrote to doctors requesting that they continue bulk billing for pensioner patients and undertake to give pensioners the option of having benefits assigned to doctors. That some doctors, and many of those who 2 years ago were critical of the shortcomings of the PMS, have decided not to accept the Government's proposals for pensioners can be interpreted only as a political act. I do not wish to restrict the right of anyone to voice opposition to Medibank, but the form of action taken by some doctors is particularly immoral. It attacks one of the weakest groups in our society, namely the aged, the invalid, the deserted wife and the widow- people who do not have the financial or industrial muscle to retaliate. The only difference between bulk billing under Medibank for pensioners and participating in the PMS scheme is that the pensioners can be given a much wider range of services for no payment, and the doctor gets 85 per cent instead of 60 per cent of the agreed fee. The only possible reason for doctors who previously participated in the PMS scheme and who are not now bulk billing is political opportunism. 
 I should like also to express my disgust at 2 other practices which have been adopted by some doctors. Before the introduction of Medibank a circular from the Belvedere Park Medical Centre, signed by  Dr W.  Brickell and  Dr P.  J. Barry, stated that bulk billing would be used on a trial basis. The circular stated:   by using this system we are extending to you a discount of 15 per cent, and consequently you will not be required to pay anything directly for surgery visits. 
That is good, though of course their administrative costs will be cut, so they will not be losing out. But the circular went on to say that there would be a charge made for home and hospital casualty visits- an illegal charge of $ 1 for a home visit or a hospital visit and $2 for an after-hours hospital casualty visit. I say 'illegal' because the assignment of benefit forms required to be signed for bulk billing states that the money received under bulk billing from Medibank is accepted as full settlement of the account. The circular stated: 
This amount will be payable at the time of consultation. 
In other words, it is cash before you get the service. A further charge will also be made for 'appliances, dressings, bandages, plaster etc.'. It states that these items 'are not supplied free under the Medibank scheme, and an appropriate amount will be charged '. My experience was that these items were included in the charge for consultations before Medibank and I understood that practice would continue. There is a further attempt by this practice to squeeze more out of patients than the recognised fee would permit. If these doctors or any others are making these charges, I hope they are aware of their illegality. 
The other practice I have come across is that of the Aspendale Clinic, although I believe it is not the only one. It has on its accounts these words: 
On payment of this account, a fully itemised receipt will be issued immediately to enable you to obtain your medical benefit rebate. 
This is done so that people will have to pay the account first, then send the account to Medibank. This type of account is being issued to all patients, pensioners included. 
I am quite willing to table the document if the honourable gentleman so wishes. I have a copy of an account sent from a doctor to a patient. The patient's name and address have been obliterated to protect that individual's confidentiality, but I can assure honourable members that it is an authentic copy of an original document. I seek leave to have it incorporated in  Hansard. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. It arises from the Grievance Day debate last Thursday. As reported at page 1025 of the House of Representatives  Hansard  of 4 September 1975, 1 named a medical practice and the doctors in it. In the debate I said that the circular which they had sent around prior to the introduction of Medibank stated that they intended to do certain things which I claimed were illegal. I now understand that what they meant to say was not that they would bulk bill and then charge an extra fee for home and hospital visits but that they would in respect of home and hospital visits be acting as agents for the patients to Medibank. That is, they would be getting the patients to fill in the Medibank claim forms as distinct from the assignment of benefit form and would be charging the patients the remainder of the normal fee for those services. This practice, of course, is not illegal. But I do understand that these doctors are in fact bulk billing for ah services that they are rendering. I apologise to them for any embarrassment or inconvenience that my inaccurate representation of their activities has caused them. 
-Is the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs aware of the reports of statements made at the Women and Politics Conference by 
Aboriginal women from Queensland? Can he say whether he intends to take any action to prevent the discriminatory practices under the Queensland Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders Act which those Aboriginal women criticised? 
-The Budget allocation for education in 1975-76 is more than 18 per cent above the expenditure in 1974-75. This increase is well ahead of the rise in costs as a result of the effects of inflation in the past year. The total appropriation for education in 1974-75 was $1,1 72m. This financial year, the proposed expenditure has risen to $ 1,479m. I contrast that with the actual expenditure in 1972-73, the last financial year in which a Liberal-Country Party budget applied, which was $259.4m. Thus the estimate or the allocation for this year is 5.7 times the actual expenditure in 1972-73. It has to be acknowledged that inflation has reduced the value of each dollar. Inflation is a facet of the capitalist Western economies which is always with us. But the reduction in the value of the dollar has been of the order of only 30 per cent, and we are still left with a fourfold increase in the real value of the money allocated to education by this Government in that period. That increase reflects our very great concern about the state education in Australia was in after 23 years of  laissez-faire  government. 
The honourable member for Deakin  (Mr Jarman)  was complaining about the state of some of the schools in his electorate. I could likewise complain about the condition of some of the State primary schools in my own area. But that is not the fault of the present Government; it is a carry-over from the situation which existed under previous Liberal-Country Party governments. From an inspection of the schools in my area, I was very pleased to see that many works are being planned and have been carried out in the last two or three years. These projects would just not have been possible had we not provided for the massive increase in funds to which I have just referred. 
It was very interesting to note the comments of the 2 honourable members who have so far spoken for the Opposition on these estimates for the Department of Education. In May of this year the shadow Minister or the spokesman on eduction for the Opposition,  Senator Guilfoyle,  stated that education spending by the Government should be cut back as part of a reduction in overall government spending. Such was the outcry from the community, from the teacher organisations and from parent bodies which are just beginning to feel the real improvement in educational standards and facilities which this Government has been able to bring about that she has refrained from making any such comments since that date. This evening we have heard conflicting views from the Opposition on what should be done about education and about how much should be spent. On the one hand, the honourable member for Deakin was decrying the fact that we had not continued to increase rapidly our allocation for education, which has been a feature of the first few years of this Government's term in office. 
On the other hand, the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Hyde)  put forward the proposition that the increase in expenditure on education had been far too rapid and that we should be cutting back our education expenditure. Just what would the Opposition do if it were in government? Would it increase the expenditure on education? Would it retain the expenditure at the levels to which we have raised it, or would it further increase that expenditure? I suggest that the silence of its spokesman on education indicates that it is tacitly admitting that it would cut back expenditure on education but that it does not have the audacity or the courage of its convictions to admit it, because it knows full well that if it were to admit what its real actions would be it would be shown up as being the Party of privilege which it is.  (Quorum formed.) 
I think the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Viner)  was so impressed by the standard of my arguments that he thought more honourable members should benefit from hearing what I had to say. I was pointing out that the Opposition has been very silent on what it would do in regard to education expenditure if it were in government. I think we might get some indication of what it might do if we have a look at the proposals in the field of education contained in the Budget recently brought down by the Victorian Government. Whereas it has increased its recurrent expenditure on government schools in the Budget by just over 17 per cent, it has increased its per capita grants to non-government schools in the primary area by 62% per cent and in the secondary area by 58'/z per cent. That represents an increase of approximately 60 per cent in the per capita grants to non-government schools, while the increase in recurrent expenditure on government schools is only just over 1 7 per cent. 
The honourable member for Deakin was complaining about money misspent by governments. I would suggest that much of the expenditure of the Victorian Government could also be looked at in terms of where the money is actually going and to whom it is going, because we must remember that these per capita grants to nongovernment schools are not made on a needs basis as are the Australian Government grants to non-government schools. Rather they are made across the board regardless of the needs of the schools. We should also ask why the money was allocated in that way to the non-government schools while, as the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Oldmeadow)  has already commented, the Victorian Government is reducing its expenditure in the area of technical education. I would also suggest that before  Mr Thompson  cries poor mouth and complains about having to reduce the number of capital works which he can put forward he should ask a question of his own Public Works Department. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Innes)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Has the attention of the Minister for Urban and Regional Development been drawn to recent reports that the Victorian Minister for Conservation attaches great importance to the elimination of the sewerage backlog in Melbourne as a means of reducing pollution in Port Phillip Bay? In view of this, can the Minister say what assistance he intends to give to the Victorian Government in this program? 
-Is the Minister for Defence aware of allegations of bias in the official publications of the Defence Department? In particular is he aware of a description in the  West Australian  of 9 October of the  Defence Report 1975  as 'a politically biased Defence Department report? Is there any truth in these allegations? Has the Department provided neutral, unbiased views to the public? 
I am amazed by the hypocrisy of the speakers from the other side on this motion. They purport to be concerned about the state of the lower income categories and the pensioners in our society. Yet it was one of their State colleagues who instituted a challenge in the High Court of Australia to one of the programs which the Australian Government instituted to provide funds to help these people. I am referring, of course, to the Australian Assistance Plan, which only last Friday was upheld by the High Court after a challenge put in by the Victorian" Attorney-General. Under this program the Australian Government has already made nearly $5m available to the community to the poorer groups in the community, the people who need it, and is planning through this year"s Budget to make another $7.4~m available. 
We ought also to think about the present attitude of the Opposition to our Appropriation Bill? and compare that with its attitude and supposed concern for the aged people. Let us look at just a few of the things which it is refusing to pass in the other place. In the Department of Social Security they include the Australian Assistance Plan funds, which I have already mentioned: the grants to organisations under the Disabled Persons Homes Act, the Handicapped Persons As:sistance Act and the Aged Persons Hostels Act: and funds for various community welfare organisations such as the Australian Council for Social Service and the Australian Council for Rehabilitation of Disabled. These are just a few of the funds which appear in Appropriation Bill (No. 1 ) under the Department of Social Security to which the Opposition in another place is refusing to agree. 
What about another group of disadvantaged people in our community who need very great assistance from government sources both in the way of guidance and in the way of funds who have been neglected in the past by previous Liberal-Country Party governments? I am referring to our Aboriginal community. What is to happen to the funds that were going to be made available to them under the Appropriation Bill? What about the money to fund the special works projects, to provide employment and training for Aboriginal people, so they can go out into the community and find jobs in their own right? What about the money for the support of Aboriginal hostels, the funding of accommodation for Aboriginal people, land acquisition for Aboriginal use, and the Aboriginal housing and personal loans money? The Opposition is refusing to pass all this besides the money to run the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. Yet the Opposition claims to be concerned about the welfare of the disadvantaged groups in our community. I ask  honourable members to consider how genuine the Opposition really is in its concern about these people and to look at the amendment which has been moved to the motion and to support that amendment. 
I would like to reply to a few of the comments by the Opposition spokesman on aboriginal affairs, the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott),  in relation to clause 21. He seems to have the impression, not only from what he has just said but also from what he said in his speech in the second reading debate yesterday, that the 2 land councils to be set up under this legislation are to have an overall say in what goes on in the Northern Territory, not only on a global basis but on a day to day basis, and that this is the be all and end all of the situation. He mentioned only very briefly the fact that the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Les Johnson)  can set up further land councils if the suggestion is put up to him and if he considers that they are appropriate. This is covered in this clause. It is precisely because of the importance of the legislation that the best step forward in making provision for the Aboriginal people is that, while the 2 land councils are to be set up now, it is recognised by the Government that it may well be necessary and desirable in the future to set up further land councils. This provision has been inserted since  Mr Justice  Woodward brought down his report. It is one of the amendments that he recommended to the draft Bill. 
I suggest also that the purpose of the land councils is not, as the honourable member suggested, to make day to day decisions for the people in the area but to make decisions of a global nature as to which group should be recommended to and recognised by the commission as owners of particular land. Their job is to make fairly general registers of the land and its usage. A great deal of the decision making process in a particular community would still go on at that local level. The people at Yirrkala would still be able to make decisions. In fact in other clauses in this Bill it is stated it will be incumbent upon the land councils not to make a decision contrary to the wishes of the people in the particular area. It will not be a case of a land council dictating to a local community and saying that it shall do this, that and the other. Power will not be taken away from the community; rather, the land council shall have a general overseeing function dealing mainly with the ownership and acquisition of land. This matter is dealt with in a later clause. A land council will have a general function and will leave day to day decisions to the local community. It will go to the local community to ascertain its wishes in any particular case about which the land council may have to make a decision and it will see that the wishes of the local community are carried out. 
I urge the Committee to pass this clause and the rest of the Bill without too much further delay. For that reason I do not wish to take the full time at my disposal. I only wanted to point out that the situation is the reverse of what was suggested by the honourable member and that in fact it will be the role of the land councils to see that the wishes of the local community, where the real decisions will be made, are implemented. 
I fail to see why the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder),  the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  and Opposition members generally are so concerned and upset about the wording in this clause 29. 1 agree with much of what the honourable member for Mackellar has said about the need for the Aboriginal people themselves to make the choice as to who their representatives should be and for us, who have the administration of this legislation, to go and sit with them and talk with them about the method of choice which they wish to use to select their representatives on the land councils. But there is nothing in this clause which prevents that happening. In fact, as the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Les Johnson)  has already indicated, this clause was worded in such a way as to enable that to happen. 
As honourable members opposite will be only too well aware from experience in this area, there are many different Aboriginal groups in each of the land council areas, each with their own particular social and spiritual ways and their own structures within their societies. Each of these may well want to use a different method of choice for their representatives. It is because of this likely wide variation within the Aboriginal community and in the ways in which they may wish to make their choices that the legislation has been worded in this way. I do not believe that it would be feasible in a piece of legislation which is already a fairly substantial document with some 80 clauses all-told to incorporate details of each of the methods which each individual Aboriginal community may wish to use to select its representatives. Honourable members opposite seem to be concerned about the possibility of part-Aboriginal people- even full-blood Aborigines who are not following the traditional Aboriginal ways of their forefathers- getting control of these councils. I see no possibilities of incorporating within this legislation methods of preventing such people getting a say in the councils and taking, if they wish, an active part in them. As the honourable member for Mackellar pointed out, many of the Aboriginal people living in Darwin, although they are urbanised Aboriginal people, are still full-bloods so that any argument - 
-Yes, many of them would be but, as I have said, many of them may well not be traditionally orientated even though they are full-bloods. So any alteration in our definition of Aboriginal to indicate the proportion of Aboriginal blood necessary would still not overcome all these objections. Is it necessarily desirable that Aboriginal people who are not completely fullbloods should not participate in some way in these land councils and be given some land rights. I do not believe that we should be ruling this out completely at this stage. We must leave open the method of choice at this time. Whatever we were to incorporate in the legislation by way of directions as to how the selection of the representatives on the land councils is to be made, inevitably the more vocal members of the Aboriginal communities would be the ones most likely to be selected by their people. But if, as the honourable member for Mackellar has suggested, the non-Aboriginals or, as he puts it, the carpetbaggers from down south were to try to take over these land councils, surely by allowing a method of choice decided on by the Aboriginal people in the area if they did not like these partAboriginals from outside coming into their area they would be able to reject their attempts to be selected. Only by allowing the Aboriginals to make the choice of their method of selection will we enable them to choose the people whom they want to choose. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 30 to 38- by leave- taken together. 

 Mr ELLICOTT (Wentworth) ^.^Subclauses (1) and (2) of clause 31 seem to raise a curious situation. Sub-clause ( 1 ) reads: 
The  Chairman  shall convene such meetings of a Land Council as are, in his opinion, necessary for the efficient conduct of its affairs and, at such a meeting, the  Chairman  shall preside if he is present and, if he is not present, the  Deputy Chairman  shall preside. 
That is all right. Sub-clause (2) says: 
At the request of at least 6 members of a Land Council, the Deputy Chairman may convene a meeting of the Land Council and, if he does so, shall preside at that meeting. 
That seems to me to be a little divisive. I can understand a provision which says that the  Chairman  shall convene such meetings as he thinks fit and, if at least 6 members of the Land Council request it, he shall do so. It seems to me that the whole Land Council could be thrown into confusion because the sub-clauses suggest in advance that there may be disputation between the  Chairman  and the  Deputy Chairman.  Supposing the  Chairman  turns up at the  Deputy  Chairman's convocation and the  Chairman  says: 'Move over, old fellow, I want to run this meeting'. The statute says that the  Deputy Chairman  shall preside. I may have missed something. If I have, I hope that the Committee will forgive me, but I find those 2 sub-clauses rather odd. 
I turn now to clause 35. I have received a representation from an Aboriginal group suggesting that the moneys that are paid should be distributed  per capita  amongst the various communities. They felt that this was the proper basis on which to do it. I mention that so that the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Les Johnson)  may be aware of it and also, if the clause receives further consideration, it may be taken into account either by the Minister or by some committee which may be looking at the matter. 
