My question is directed to the Minister for the Media. Can the Minister say what increase, if any, there has been in sales of Film Australia productions to Australian networks and to networks overseas? Does this commercial distribution of Australian Government film productions provide any return to revenue and are they likely to be further increased? 
Is the Attorney-General aware of Press reports this morning that 5 police officers from the Australian contingent serving in Cyprus are stationed in the fishing village of Paphos on the island and that fighting is taking place near the village? Has he taken any steps to make further inquiries about the safety of" the Australian contingent? 
-Has the Minister representing the Minister for Transport seen recent Press reports on the hearing of an injunction sought by Foremost International Tours against the Australian airline Qantas Airways Ltd in the United States District Court in Honolulu? As the suit brought by Foremost International Tours alleges that Qantas copied certain of Foremost 's ideas and brochures and conspired with Canadian Pacific Air Limited, can the Minister advise the Senate what action, if any, the Australian Government has taken in this matter? 
Is the Minister for Customs and Excise aware that motor vehicle tyres, rated only to 100 kilometers per hour, are being imported into and sold in Australia? Does he consider that such tyres may be potentially dangerous? If so, what action does he intend to take in the interests of consumer protection and the safety of road users? 
-Can the AttorneyGeneral inform the Senate of the progress which has been made towards the establishment of an Australian government legal aid office in Launceston, Tasmania, and when the services of this office are likely to be available? 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Agriculture and refers to recent Press reports that China has bought another large amount of wheat from Australia. Could the Minister provide the Senate with details of this transaction? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Will the Government table, for the information of honourable senators, all official Australian Government documents relating to the decision of the Tasmanian Government to cease to be a claimant State for Grants Commission purposes? 

 -Mr President, I thank you for your remarks but having regard to the speech of  Senator Greenwood,  the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, who has just preceded me in this debate, I feel constrained to make certain submissions to the Senate, In those circumstances I do not think it would be proper for me to take advantage of an offer of immunity from objections. However, it is proper that with the indulgence of the Senate I should record my strong feeling of appreciation at my election as a member of this House of the national Parliament. The transition from the Parliament of a small State serves only to underscore the ever-widening gulf between Australian Government activity on the one hand and the legitimate areas of State government involvement on the other hand. 
The Bill before the House contains a national approach to a national problem which affects everyone in Australia. In recent years I have often said publicly in various forums that there are many areas in which national legislation and administration are essential in the public interest. I have instanced company law, the law of defamation, shipping and navigation, legislative controls with respect to pornography, criminal law and family law. There are many others. This measure is another instance. I expect that the debate on this Bill will be a classic illustration of the conclusion which the Constitutional Review Committee reached in 1959 with regard to the role of the Senate. I do not overlook the dissenting report of  Senator Wright  on that occasion. I refer in particular to paragraphs 77 and 98, without quoting them because of the time factor. 
In the 1 5 years since the report was made public the position expressed in the first extract to which I have referred has crystallised. It is just not true to say that the role of the Senate is on either of the bases on which it was originally put by the framers of the Constitution. The Senate is dominated by party political considerations and the description 'independent' in relation to some members of the Senate in the past and one member of the Senate today is completely spurious. Earlier this afternoon we witnessed a shameful example of that. By the time the vital votes on this Bill are taken it will be apparent, in view of the expressed attitude of the Liberal-Country Party Opposition to the Bill, whether party political ideology purportedly masked under the guise of self-professed independence will prevail or whether the interests of all Australians as consumers will be safeguarded by a joinder of certain forces with the Government to destroy the reactionary and conservative opposition to the Bill. 
This is the third occasion in less that 12 months on which legislation of the type embodied in the Bill has been before one or other of the Houses of this national Parliament. The present measure is significantly different from the original Bill, but I observe at this stage that in my view it is to the credit of the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  that in a field in which there are such far-reaching personal consequences for individuals he has been willing to accept amendments designed to improve the legislation. A government which does so, in my view, deserves credit, not criticism, for such a constructive approach. It is therefore to be hoped that in this area of supreme importance to the individual, especially the less affluent, the majority of the Senate will proclaim itself in favour of the beneficial provisions of this Bill despite the declared love-hate attitude of the Liberal-Country Party coalition. If it were not to do so, the Australian people could well regard themselves as having been sold out by a majority of the Senate on the altar of vested business and commercial interests. 
It is of interest and of value, when determining the need for legislation of this type, to consider its history. We are all aware that the first germ of the idea that some national legislation was necessary in relation at least to monopolies is to be found in the Australian Industries Preservation Act of 1906. We are all aware that very quickly that Act became virtually a dead letter and that it lay moribund for decades. So it is that it falls to a Labor government to bring before the Australian Parliament, I assert for the first time in nearly three-quarters of a century, really effective legislation designed to achieve 2 basic objectives: Firstly, to outlaw objectionable restrictive trade practices; and, secondly, to give protection against the unfair practices which have made unsuspecting consumers the victims of misleading and deceptive conduct to the extent that without doubt it has blotted the Australian business and commercial scene for so long. 
I say that it is the first really effective legislation of its ty pe in nearly three-quarters of a century because it is demonstrable that the previous Liberal-Country Party Government paid no more than hp service to the basic purpose of its legislation and thereby itself was misleading and deceptive. Its first weak attempt was the Trade Practices Act of 1965 which finally emerged after it had been officially proposed by the then 
Government some 6 years before. Surely that must be one of the longest periods of legislative gestation on record. This afternoon we have been told by the Opposition that it wants another inquiry. Of course, we all know the problems within the Liberal and Country Parties which that weak and inept legislation of 1965 produced. It must have been obvious to the then Government, as the years went by, that its legislation was nothing more than an idle sop to the clamour for real protection of the public against the practices which have disgraced many trading and commercial transactions to the detriment of the consumer. 
It is now 1974. Ten years ago the Tasmanian Government commissioned Professor Grant of the University of Tasmania to conduct a royal commission into, amongst other things, restrictive trade practices. It did so in a realisation that Tasmania, because of its size, obviously was not the most appropriate State in which such an investigation should be carried out. But one of the prime reasons which actuated the Tasmanian Government 10 years ago to commission the report was to try to flush out of the then LiberalCountry Party Government the legislation that had been promised as long ago as 1959. Within the naturally restricted sphere in which he was inquiring Professor Grant, at page 131 of his report, said: 
Examination of the activities of about seventy Tasmanian trade associations, the majority of which covered firms engaged in wholesale and retail trade, reveals that approximately two-thirds of the associations were involved in restrictive trade practices. The restrictive trade practices which were identified included horizontal agreements between supposedly competing firms, involving the fixing of prices and/or detailed conditions of sale, the snaring of markets (particularly on a State basis) and the restriction of entry to the trade. There were also many arrangements and agreements between trade associations whose member firms were engaged in successive stages of the production and distribution process. These vertical arrangements also restricted competition by establishing either resale price maintenance, exclusive dealing, collective boycotts, exclusionary dealing or price discrimination. Evidence was also presented relating to mergers, which may reduce competition. 
Professor Grant went on to make certain recommendations with respect to what could and should be done in Tasmania. He expressed his faith in the professed intention of the then Liberal-Country Party coalition Government to introduce effective legislation, and somewhat piously, as history has shown, suggested that that might be sufficient. 
The speech that we have just heard from  Senator Greenwood,  who is the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, is extreme in its reactionary, conservative approach. He suggested that there really is no problem. We do not want, however, to wake up one day and find that we have gone even a fraction of the way along the path that has beset America for so long, even though so far as Western democracies are concerned it could be said, through the Sherman Act and other statutes, to have pioneered- I put the words very much in inverted commas- anti-trust' legislation. The well known watchdog of consumers Ralph Nader, quite recently organised a study group to report on anti-trust enforcement in America. The group found that, if monopoly industries were broken up in America, prices would fall by 25 per cent or more- and that was according to Government figures- that monopoly and oligopoly cost the American economy between 48 billion dollars a year and 60 billion dollars a year in lost output of goods and services; that, in the 80 years that America had had anti-trust laws, businessmen have gone to gaol for criminal price fixing on only 3 occasions; that already only 200 companies control two-thirds of all American manufacturing assets; and that the situation is rapidly worsening. 
I underscore these words: 
That timidity, political influence-peddling, apathy, and Congressional miserliness have so debilitated antitrust enforcers as to make a mockery of the ' free enterprise system '. 
No one would suggest for a moment that the Australian situation is, or in the foreseeable future is likely to be, anything nearly as bad as that in America, but equally, we would be fools and would be burying our heads in the sand if we did not recognise that we are in the incipient stages of an analogous problem and that unless positive, strong action is taken on the admitted defects within the consumer system Australia will head along the road that America has trodden for a long time and eventually will find itself in that same shameful position that Ralph Nader's study group exposed in America. Yet despite the fact that in another place the Liberal Party-Country Party Opposition said it supported the trade practices legislation in principle, and despite the fact that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Greenwood)  has said in the Senate this afternoon that the Opposition will vote for the second reading of this Bill, the attitude of the Opposition parties clearly is one of love-hate. They hate this legislation but they have not got the courage to vote against it on the second reading. Their rejoinder may be 'We have still got the third reading stage'. We will wait to see whether there are to be 2 shameful legislative performances in this so-called independent House of review on the same afternoon. 
The Opposition attitude continues to ignore the legitimate interests of consumers who under its government when in power and under its current attitude comprise a forgotten race. The Opposition attitude, in my view, illustrates  President  Roosevelt's definition of the common man whom he once described as 'the forgotten man at the bottom of the economic pyramid.' And, albeit unwittingly, the Opposition attitude as expressed this afternoon also supports the pragmatic comment of the Russian leader whom they would despise- Nikita Krushchev- when he said: 'When you are skinning your customers you should leave some skin on to grow again so that you can skin them again'. That seems to me to sum up the Opposition attitude. 
The title of the Bill is deceptive by its mere simplicity, but its breadth and scope, on detailed examination, are seen to be sufficiently comprehensive to give the Australian consumer confidence that his chances of being robbed- and that is not too harsh a term- by some persons who engage in trade and commerce will be dramatically minimised, while the heavy penalties prescribed by clauses 76 and 79 will be a deterrent to the less scrupulous traders. The Bill has 2 essential streams. The first consists of the powers contained in sections 45 to 50 dealing with contracts, arrangements and understandings in restraint of trade or commerce, monopolisation, exclusive dealing, resale price maintenance and mergers. When the Opposition attitude in this matter really is examined, what has it against the provisions on all those 6 grounds other than the bleat that we hear so constantly in public from their supporters and in this chamber and in another place, namely 'We want an inquiry. Our society is not yet geared to the changes which this dreadful Government is proposing '. 
The second stream contained within the Bill relates to consumer protection, a part of the Bill that has been described as a Bill of Rights for Australian consumers. In that Bill of Rights are enshrined 4 basic principles. The first is the right to be protected from harmful or dangerous products. It is a novel approach in this nation that clause 62 of this Bill should provide for product safety standards in the form of regulations with respect to many matters affecting consumers. 
The second basic right is the right to know the truth and to be protected against false and misleading packaging and advertising. That is achieved by clause 63 which deals with product information standards. Again, this is a novel approach by the Government. The third basic right of the consumer is the right in competitive markets to get value for money. The fourth right is the right to speak and be heard in relation to his own interest. The provisions of the Bill in relation to those 4 basic rights are being, and have been, supplemented by Government administrative action designed to protect consumers in an area, or in areas, in which for so many decades they have lacked effective protection despite the passage of the 1965 legislation. 
One would wish to deal with a number of criticisms which have been levelled against this Bill in another place, in this Senate and outside. But at least until the Committee stage 1 have time to deal only with one of them, that is, the suggestion which was made in another place that the Bill will lead to constitutional legal wrangles on a large scale. The fact is that this measure has been carefully framed to ensure that it falls within the limits of the constitutional power of the Australian Parliament. Regrettably the restrictive trade practices provisions have had to be confined to corporations pursuant to the Australian Parliament's corporations power. But 1 want to emphasise that there is no reason whatsoever, if the State governments are sincere in their professed desire to protect consumers, why there should not be a referral of power so that firms and individuals can be embraced within that part of the legislation and also to set at rest any constitutional doubts there may be in respect of its validity. 
There is a precedent for this. In 1966, following the passage of the 1965 legislation, the Tasmanian Government passed a Bill referring power in this area to the Australian Parliament, and pursuant to that reference the 1965 Act was amended in 1967 to give extended operation, so far as Tasmania was concerned, to the provisions of the 1965 legislation. I would hope that the States would be invited to refer power in this area. If they did so they would at least be seen to be sincere and it would be apparent that there were at least some areas in which they were prepared to take a national approach and the criticism based on any alleged constitutional invalidity would completely disappear. 
I think that I can deal very briefly with one other criticism that has been made, that is, that the Bill is unnecessary because of the existence of various State laws. But a brief examination only of existing State laws in this area- at least the laws which are relied on for this argumentshows that the efforts of the States have not produced effective legislation. The State laws are weak. Their range is restricted. They lack uniformity. Anyone who believes that in areas such as this uniformity and strong legislation at State level are likely to be achieved is deluding himself. The history of recent matters involving the Australian Government and State governments illustrates that. There was a fiasco in Perth in July 1972 at the meeting of the Standing Committee of Attorneys-General when the efforts of the then Australian Attorney-General to persuade the States to adopt a uniform approach in relation to company law failed. I saw and heard the then Australian Attorney-General on that occasion insulted, provoked and vilified. 
-No, it was not  Senator Greenwood. Senator Greenwood  was not at that time entitled to a seat at the table, if I remember correctly. That vilification and provocation took place at a time when the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange had been taking evidence for some 3 years and it was perfectly apparent to any person, whether or not he was a member of that Committee, that the die was cast for a national approach to company law. 
The second occasion was in relation to pornography. The Australian Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  will remember the 2 efforts that were made last year to adopt a national approach in regard to pornography. At the second conference, 5 States agreed with the Australian Government that they would adopt a national approach tailored to the express policy of the Australian Labor Party in this area. It does not take much imagination to guess which was the sixth State which would not do anything about it. Of course it was the politically benighted State of Queensland, the government of which has seen fit in this area to proscribe a publication which it apparently regards as the quintessence of pornographic evil, namely, the magazine 'Playboy'. In the climate of State politics today bold and decisive action at State level in an area of such public importance as is dealt with by this Bill is a vain hope and it is just not on. 
One of the most beneficial clauses in this Bill is the specific provision for legal aid which is contained in clause 169. 1 believe that this Government has a proud record in relation to legal aid. Its record demonstrates the depth of sincerity in the Labor Party's platform in respect of the equality of individuals. It throws up starkly the lack of concern of previous Liberal-Country Party administrations for the pursuit of justice regardless of the limited or non-existent means of the individual concerned. It is by policies such as this that history will judge the worth of the present Labor administration. 
I conclude my remarks by summarising the main reasons for my enthusiastic support of this Bill. Firstly, it has strength and teeth and it spells an end to pussyfooting in this area. Secondly, it recognises for the first time that all consumers have legitimate interests and that they are entitled to have those interests protected. Thirdly, it outlaws certain trade practices which even the Opposition, despite its love-hate attitude, has conceded should be outlawed. Fourthly, it contains a clear message to State governments that in the area of restrictive trade practices and consumer protection there should be a referral of power in the national interest. Fifthly, it must lead to a reduction in prices and in course of time be anti-inflationary. Finally, it illustrates Labor's policy of concern that there should be more evenhanded treatment of all citizens. For those reasons I support the Bill, and I thank the Senate for its indulgence. 
That  Senator Everett  table the document from which he quoted. 
This was a report of Professor Grant relating to restrictive trade practices and price control in Tasmania. In so moving, I expressly wish to make it clear that I do so not by way of suggesting that there has been a misquoting but rather because the document is in short supply and I think there are some people who may gain something from an opportunity to peruse it. 
-I do not mind its being tabled. If anyone wants to borrow the report, he may do so. It is a public document. It has all been paid for. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I preface it by referring to a meeting which was eld in Perth yesterday afternoon by persons alleged to have an interest in the case of the Russian violinist,  Mr Ermolenko,  and which included  Mr Garland,  the Liberal Party member for Curtin, and  Mr Ian  Medcalf, representing the Liberal Party Minister for Immigration in Western Australia. I ask: Is the Leader of the Government aware of reports that this meeting agreed that  Mr Ermolenko  should not be allowed to leave Australia until the Minister for Foreign Affairs,  Senator Willesee,  had flown to Perth and spoken to him? Further, does he believe that the Minister for Foreign Affairs might best assist the situation by remaining in Canberra, where he is able to consult with officers of his own Department and the Russian Embassy? 
Listening to this debate, it seems to me that the Opposition is making a mountain out of a molehill and is grossly exaggerating the effect of clause 29. It also, I suggest, distorts the true position of the Commission under the legislation because to describe it as an independent public corporation and to refer in the same breath to the Australian Broadcasting Commission seems to me to distort the position. 
Under the Bill the Commission has 2 types of functions. The first is a quasi judicial function which is provided in Part VII and other provisions in the Bill which are in aid of the execution of its powers under Part VII. Those powers, not just those in Part VII, aid the functions of the Commission under Part VII. All those powers are excluded from this provision. No question of direction arises. Therefore, what is left in the Bill on which the terms of clause 29 can operate? I suggest that with very odd exceptions that would have to be found in the Bill by going through it word for word, the provisions on which clause 29 can act are those contained in clause 28. 
Clause 28 sets out5 powers which are essentially of an administrative character which could be said to be functions which an ordinary government department would normally carry out. If they were not specifically consigned to the Commission or entrusted to the Commission under clause 28 they would be functions which the executive government, through the AttorneyGeneral 's Department, would, I believe, be expected to carry out. As I have said, clause 29 is provided essentially in relation to those powers. When Parliament sees fit- it has already passed clause 28 and therefore it can be assumed that both sides consider it proper that those5 special functions should be entrusted to the Commissiondoes Parliament want to be able to say to the executive government of the day: 'Hands off', in relation for instance to such matters as priority? Take clause 28 ( 1 ) (c), which states:  the Commission has the . . . function- to conduct research in relation to matters affecting the interest of consumers, being matters with respect to which the Parliament has power to make laws; 
As I have said, normally that would be an executive government function. Surely it is proper that the Attorney-General should, in relation to that matter which 1 take as an example, be able to say to the Commission: 'I have had complaints from many areas in the past few weeks concerning this aspect of consumer interest. You have not so far done any research on that matter. Would you please do so and give it priority. ' Is there anything wrong with that? As I have said, if the Opposition really examines this and appreciated that Part VII and anything related to Part VII is excluded from the power, it will see there is virtually nothing left on which the power can operate except the functions contained in clause 28. 
I would have thought that the Opposition rather than opposing this provision would have welcomed the fact that as a parliament there will be a greater right to examine the activities of the executive government if this clause stays in the legislation than if the Opposition's is agreed to. Any Attorney-General who did give a direction under clause 29 would, by virtue of sub-clause (2), be extremely careful to see that what he was doing would enhance him before the Parliament and not be a subject of criticism of him. By preserving this the Parliament is enhancing its position vis-a-vis the executive government. By agreeing to the amendment of the Opposition the Parliament is cutting itself off and is saying that this Commission should be left completely alone even in relation to ordinary administrative matters which normally would be the ordinary task of executive government but which for special reasons, because of the expertise of this Commission, are entrusted by clause 28 to the Commission, and Parliament has, without a word of dissent, approved of clause 28. 
I would have thought that the Opposition amendment is misconceived, that Parliament would be better served by this provision being left in and that it is untrue to say that it is some sinister attempt by the executive government to get its claws into an independently created statutory body. It is quite innocent, I am convinced, in its conception and it will be innocently executed. If innocence becomes guilt then it will be exposed under sub-clause (2) of clause 29. 
I listened to  Senator Wright  and the example that he cited in support of the proposition that in his view some such word as 'wilfully' had to be inserted in sub-clause ( 1 ) of clause 46. It seemed to me that he was completely distorting the proper construction of the sub-clause. I go so far as to say that if the word 'wilfully', or any word like it, were inserted in this clause the whole clause might just as well be struck out of the Bill because it would be completely purposeless, useless and ineffective. In the first place it must be appreciated that, so far as offence provisions are concerned, the element of wilfulness, if it were inserted in this clause, would have to be proved beyond all reasonable doubt. 
Let us take the case of a corporate decision, which is the area with which we are dealing. How on earth could it be proved, having regard to the 2 elements which it would be necessary to consider for the purpose of determining whether there had been an offence under this proposed section, that the corporate decision was a wilful one? The 2 elements in this clause which would have to be proved in any prosecution- I take it to the stage of prosecution because it is easier to discuss on that basis- are, firstly, the taking advantage by a corporation of its market power and, secondly, that there was a purpose behind the taking of that advantage; for example, to eliminate a competitor. 
-Simply by reading them in a common sense way. I shall read with emphasis the words contained in clause 46. Sub-clause ( 1 ) states: 
A corporation - 
I shall leave out the next few words which are descriptive- 
. shall not take advantage of the power in relation to that market that it has by virtue of being in that position -  for the purpose of eliminating - 
-No, I am construing the word 'to'. 
I am construing the word 'to'. That is obviously what it is designed for. I take  Senator Wright's  point on this. How is it to be proved that there was a corporate wilfulness in relation to such a matter? 
-We all know about conspiracies and we all know about tapes. But I am dealing with a corporate decision which is made, firstly, to take advantage of market power and, secondly, to produce a certain result. 
I do not understand the relevance of that interjection. 
I am still none the wiser as to the relevance of the interjection and I therefore agree with the Attorney-General that it has none. The simple position Ls that you could never prove wilfulness in relation to a corporation in this matter. If you cannot prove it, what is the use of having the word 'wilful' in the legislation? I simply ask the Opposition whether it is endeavouring to emasculate this provision of the Trade Practices Bill. If it says no, we will accept the answer and say that it just does not understand. 
I do not wish to become legalistic in this matter, but briefly I do wish to rejoin to what  Senator Wright  has said with regard to 2 matters which he described as elementary. Of course, section 78 excludes criminal proceedings as such in relation to contraventions of Part IV. But clause 76 provides that both persons and corporations who contravene a provision of Part IV are liable to pay to Australia a pecuniary penalty which may be as high as $250,000. Clause 77 merely establishes the procedure whereby action can be taken in order to recover that penalty. Proceedings may be taken by the Attorney-General or by the Commission. So clause 77 establishes a very special right so far as contraventions of clause 46 are concerned. Without wishing to argue the matter at any greater length or to cite authorities, I simply say that it is grotesque to contemplate that, if the word 'wilfully' were inserted in clause 46 as a separate and definite element, it would be sufficient to establish that wilfulness on a mere balance of probabilities when proceedings were being taken to recover a pecuniary penalty. 
With respect to the second point that  Senator Wright  raised, it seemed to me that he saw in clause 84 some comfort for his argument against the arguments put from this side of the chamberthat is, that it would be extremely difficult, if a requirement of wilfulness were imported into clause 46, to establish that against a corporation. My rejoinder to him is simply this: Sub-clause ( 1 ) of clause 84 has nothing whatsoever to do with the matter we are discussing because it relates only to Part V. 
I realise that the honourable senator pointed it out after dinner, not before. Sub-clause (2) goes very little along the way to meeting our argument because it is simply an agency provision. Does anyone imagine that the conduct that will lead to proceedings for contravention of clause 46 will not be basically as a result of decisions taken at the board table where directors will vote on the action to be taken and those directors will have different ideas in their respective minds? I simply wish to set the record straight on 2 matters which were described by  Senator Wright  as elementary. 
-The public must be puzzled at the attitude of the Opposition in this important sphere. The Opposition, in another place, here and publicly, has professed its support for this Bill. It has said that the provisions contained in Part V are sound.  Senator Missen,  when he spoke late on Tuesday night, extolled the provisions of the Bill generally. That is one attitude of the Opposition. The other attitude- it is the Opposition's practical attitude to this Bill with which we are concerned -is that it opposes every provision in Part V. As I understand the speeches that have been made, the Opposition bases its latter attitude mainly on the ground that there are State laws which deal with some of these matters. The simple fact is that the State and Territory laws are fragmented, lack uniformity and very obviously are the result of the response of State governments to ad hoc political pressures. They lack the essential thing in this area, that is, a national approach. 
Reference has been made to some of the State laws. I suggest that if all the State laws, together with the laws of the Territories, were added together and examined, and if the strongest provisions in relation to every area of consumer protection were distilled out of those laws, it would be found that they would contain only a fraction of the strength of the protection that is afforded by this Bill. To illustrate that proposition one has only to look at clause 52 of the Bdi. I suggest that this is a provision which is not found in any existing State or Territory law. It is a provision which is completely general in its content, and it is a provision which would ensure in a general way protection for the consumer far beyond the protection that is afforded to him by the law of any State or Territory. It is stated in clause 52: 
1 ) A corporation shall not, in trade or commerce, engage in conduct that is misleading or deceptive. 
Nothing in the succeeding provisions of this Division shall be taken as limiting by implication the generality of sub-section ( 1 ). 
In effect, that is a provision which outlaws practices which are inimical to the interests of consumers whether they are presently being practised or whenever they may be practised. No State has any such provision. 
I turn to clause 55 which applies, because of the constitutional power of the Australian Parliament, to persons as well as to corporations. Clause 55 states: 
A person shall not, in trade or commerce, engage in conduct that is liable to mislead the public as to the nature, the manufacturing process, the characteristics, the suitability for their purpose or the quantity of any goods. 
I suggest that that clause transcends what is contained in any existing State or Territory legislation. I go further and say that many of the provisions contained in Part V, all of which the Opposition seeks to delete from the Bill, have no counterpart whatsoever in State or Territory legislation. Two outstanding examples of that proposition are to be found in clauses 62 and 63. Clause 62 deals with product safety standardsthis is a novel approach in Australia- and clause 63 deals with product information standards. One might have understood the Opposition's attitude if it had sought to delete some of the provisions of Part V but to retain provisions which were unique so far as Australian State and Territorial legislation were concerned. Those are 2 supreme examples. But the Opposition has not done that. 

 Senator Greenwood referred this morning to consumer protection bodies. I think that Victoria, the State which  Senator Greenwood  represents, was one of the first States to have a consumer protection body- its precise name escapes mewhich, I think, was established in 1964. But if honourable senators look at the reports of the various State consumer protection bodies they will see that over the years the complaint of the heads of those bodies has been the lack of effective power to take action. Essentially, they had been advisory bodies. The State Parliaments, for reasons that may have appeared good to them, have seen fit to withhold from the consumer protection bodies any grant of power that would permit them to function strongly and effectively in the interests of consumers. As I have said, basically they are advisory bodies. They appear just as children against the strong body of law that is created by Part V of this Bill which the Opposition seeks to delete. 
I wish to repeat very briefly the call that I made on Tuesday for a reference of powers in this area from the States to the Australian Parliament. This call applies especially to matters which so importantly affect all Australians. It is not always the Australian Government which should take the initiative in these matters. Statesmanship equally should emanate from the State governments as well as from the Australian Government. I see tremendous advantages in a reference of powers which I believe would mean that there is no validity whatsoever in the Opposition criticism. In the first place, it would permit this legislation, by subsequent amendment, to be extended to firms and to individuals and to make it completely comprehensive, including, of course, corporations as the Australian Parliament may now legislate. Secondly, it would produce uniformity. Where is the logic for a particular act to be an offence in one State but not an offence in another. Surely manufacturers, retailers and wholesalers would be advantaged throughout Australia if their obligations were the same irrespective of the State or Territory in which they carried on business. Thirdly, the advantage of a reference of powers would be to obviate any legal constitutional difficulties which, as has been indicated, may arise. 
It could be said: 'Why does the Australian Government not take the initiative?' The simple fact is that the Australian Government has taken the initiative in many areas to endeavour to get a national approach to a national problem. I have already referred to what I termed the fiasco which took place in Perth- and if I may correct the year I gave-on 2 July 1973, not 1972. That was an occasion when the present Australian Attorney-General was endeavouring to obtain the agreement of the States to a national approach to the administration of company law on a national basis. He was rebuffed. The Liberal States spent the next few months devising some way to circumvent the intention that the Australian Attorney-General then declared he had of bringing to this Parliament a national companies code. 
The result of that deliberation by the Liberal States was the emergence by January of this year of a very curious body indeed. It had the high sounding title of the Interstate Corporate Affairs Commission. It was a grouping of Liberal States to endeavour, as I have said, to circumvent national legislation. A perusal of its proposed charter shows how futile it would have been. It was to be non-executive in nature. Its principal functions were to consist of establishing the principles to be followed by existing administrations and supervising the standards of administration in the participating jurisdictions in a number of matters. In other words, it was a club constituted by State Liberal governments to perpetuate, so far as company law was concerned, the administrative scandals which were so quickly subsequently revealed by the report of the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange. There are other experiences which the Australian Government has had in a short time. I believe it is the obligation of State governments to offer a lead in this respect and offer the Commonwealth powers that would produce the beneficial results I have mentioned. 
The most curious aspect of this amendment whereby the Opposition seeks to delete in toto the consumer protection provisions of this Bill is what is its motivation. I would like to know from the Opposition who is clamouring for the deletion of this Part because the Opposition concedes that it is good law. I spoke in the lobbies of this place yesterday afternoon with a leading representative of a quite large Australian manufacturing company which I will not name. The company, apart from being a substantial employer of labour, conducts business in all States and also overseas. The comment of that gentleman to me was: 'Why can we not have the Bill? Industry wants this Bill as it is. We want it'. There is no doubt as to what is the attitude of the consumers. I am perplexed as to the principles upon which the Opposition seeks to delete these provisions and I am also perplexed by its motivation. It appears to me that the Opposition has no base on this issue and that it is opposing Government legislation for the sake of opposing it. In doing so, the Opposition once again demonstrates its passion to obstruct and to deny the people of Australia beneficial legislation. I would finally observe that it appears to me that the Opposition has become drowned by its own hidebound conservatism. 
I should like to submit to the Senate that the amendment is misconceived for the following reasons. In the first place sub-clause (1) gives an unqualified right to each State to payment in accordance with the Schedule 'subject only to this Act'. In other words the right cannot be affected except by sub-clause (2). If the words 'only to the extent that the Treasurer is satisfied that they are required by the State' are taken out as the amendment seeks to do, it would mean that each year a State could be entitled to the moneys set out in the Schedule whether or not it had spent 40 per cent, 70 per cent or 90 per cent of the value of the approved programs. The contention of the Minister is that this is not a responsible way of looking at the matter. It is unfair to the rest of the States. The third point I make is that it would not be right to say that the Treasurer could capriciously say that he was not satisfied.  His  powers under sub-clause (2) are statutory and would have to be exercised bona fide for the purposes of the Act. 
I ask the Minister for the Media: Has the Department of the Media completed its survey of television and audio visual equipment available in schools throughout Australia? If so, can the Minister indicate the results of this survey? Will these results be made public? When does the Minister anticipate that he and his colleague the Minister for Education will be able to meet State Ministers for Education to discuss plans for the development of television and audio visual systems in Australian schools? 
It is a distressing fact of political life, as revealed by the contribution we have just heard from the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers),  that the Opposition appears to be so bankrupt of any constructive contribution to the government of this country that all it can debate on a motion relating to the Constitutional Convention is the question of representation inter partes. The fact is that the second session of the Constitutional Convention, set down for the first week in November, will be a landmark for the Australian nation. No one disputes that the Constitution is in need of urgent revision. For the past 12 months scores of persons throughout Australia, including members of Parliament of all political persuasions, have been engaged on the task of endeavouring to get before that second session of the Constitutional Convention proper proposals for the amendment of the Constitution. 
One would have thought that tonight, especially after the defeat of the last 2 Bills, the Opposition in this chamber would have been anxious to demonstrate that it is ready for that Convention, that it has a proper contribution to make and that it is hopeful that unanimity in some respects will be achieved. But nothing of that sort came from the Opposition tonight. All we heard was a discussion about who should have a guernsey at that Convention. Despite the Opposition's denial that its attitude as reflected in its motion is directed at  Senator Hall  personally, there can be not the slightest doubt that it is directed at  Senator Hall  politically. 
One remembers, of course, the atmosphere in this chamber when the motion now put by  Senator Withers  was proposed originally. The atmosphere was one in which  Senator Hall  was demonstrating his true independence as distinct from the independence that goes under a masquerade. I propose to deal with that matter because the attitude of the Opposition tonight is one of complete hypocrisy. It would deny  Senator Hall,  who represents a party which has representation not only in this chamber but also in another chamber, representation at the Constitutional Convention; yet on the other hand it would, with complete inconsistency, harbour within its own ranks a person whom I have no hesitation in describing tonight as a complete imposter. I wish he were in this chamber at this moment. It may well be that he will come into the chamber and defend what must appear to every right thinking Australian to be a pose of complete hypocrisy. I refer to  Senator Townley  and the recent statements that have been made in connection with his political future. 
I link this matter with that which is being debated by the Senate on the basis that the Opposition, whilst maintaining an attitude of hostility towards  Senator Hall,  reflected in its opposition to his being a representative of this chamber at the Constitutional Convention, nevertheless seeks to embrace within its own ranks a person who has masqueraded for far too long as an Independent. I say that because, since  Senator Townley  's first election over 2 years ago and his representation in this chamber over that period, he has proclaimed that he is an Independent when everyone knows that he never was an Independent, that he is not an Independent and that he is never likely to be an Independent. 
By way of proof, look at his history. In about 1970 he ostensibly severed his connection with the Liberal Party in Tasmania- but for what reason? Did he do so on some great ideological difference with that Party? Of course not. He did so simply on the basis that he did not get a vote of endorsement. That was the great issue on which he broke with the Liberal Party. But, of course, he left the Party dangling a little bit and simply refused to pay his subscription. That has now been paid. We on the Government side of the chamber would say that if that had been all that was the trouble with  Senator Townley  we gladly would have contributed his subscription in order that he could have been legitimated. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Devitt)-  The point of order is not upheld. I think the comments being made are germane to the motions before the Senate. I certainly shall watch the tenor of the debate. For the moment, I think  Senator Everett  is in order. 
I regret the absence of the honourable senator in question; but I cannot command, any more than anyone else can, his attendance in this chamber. In the extremely brief time that I have been here - 
-No, of course I did not; any more than anyone else is notified when it is proposed that he or she be attacked.  Mr Acting Deputy President,  I said that some 4 years ago the honourable senator in question severed his connection with the Liberal Party. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- 
Order! What is the point of order? 
What  Senator Everett  has done is to bring in the name of  Senator Townley,  not just by way of a passing reference but, as it appears to me, having listened to him for the past S minutes, as the subject matter or vehicle of his contribution. I ask you,  Mr Acting Deputy  President: What relevance has  Senator Townley  's conduct in 1970, before a constitutional convention was ever thought of, to the motions which are before the chamber at the present time? If it were sought to explore  Senator Hall's  background, that might be a different matter. Even then I would have thought that there would be dubious justification for going back into history when referring to whether the Leader of the Liberal Movement  (Senator Hall)  should be a member of the Convention. On the other hand, that might be the best and only justification which could be raised. All I am saying is that  Senator Hall  is not the person to whom  Senator Everett  is referring.  Senator Everett  is referring to  Senator Townley. Mr Acting Deputy President,  the standing order about digression, the standing order about relevancy, with all respect, ought to have meaning given to it.  Senator Everett  is not just mentioning this matter in passing; he is developing a case. I ask you,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  to consider the matter in that light. Standing order 419 provides:. 
No  Senator shall  digress from the subject-matter of any Question under discussion; nor anticipate the discussion of any subject which appears on the Notice Paper. 
The subject matter of the question under discussion is the Constitutional Convention, who shall attend it, what may be done at it and what are its purposes, hopes and aspirations. The subject matter is tremendously wide, but I say that  Senator Townley  's history is not part of the subject matter comprehended by the expression  Constitutional Convention ' or the matters raised in the motion. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Are you speaking to the point of order? 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- 
Order! My ruling comes within the area of a subjective judgment on the basis of what has been put to me,.and on the basis of the standing order, which is the primary consideration. The standing order provides that no senator shall digress from the subject matter of any question under discussion. I am asked to rule on whether what has been said has relevance to the subject matter under discussion. The subject matter under discussion is representation, as I take it, on the basis of some alignment or some party affiliation. Having said that, however, I suggest that  Senator Everett  should connect his remarks with the subject matter before the Chair. I hope that that will be done. 
I am obliged to you,  Mr Acting Deputy President.  When I began speaking on this matter I pointed out that there was a patent inconsistency in the attitude of the Opposition. Despite what the Opposition said, it was obviously endeavouring to exclude  Senator Hall  as a representative of this Senate at the Constitutional Convention. I drew a distinction between the Opposition's attitude in that respect, that is, to  Senator Hall  as a representative of a political group that could be fairly said to be independent of both the Government and the Liberal-Country Party Opposition, and the Opposition's attitude in embracing a person with the record of masquerading that  Senator Townley  has acquired over the years. I believe that the point has been made. If the Opposition is touchy about this matter, and since  Senator Townley  has not seen fit to be present in the chamber during any of the time that this matter has been under debate, I will not labour the matter any further except to say that I am convinced that the majority of Tasmanian electors are quite certain that they have as a representative in Canberra in  Senator Townley  a person who flies under false colours. The Opposition embraces that sort of a person, and the sooner the embrace becomes complete and the act of legitimation is completed, the better it will be for everyone. I oppose the amendment. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Customs and Excise. I draw the Minister's attention to recent Press reports that a ban has been placed on the export of historical documents relating to arrangements made between Aborigines and explorers or early settlers. My question is whether the Minister's action was directed at any particular document and, if so, what is proposed to be done about the possible loss of other articles which are of great historical significance to Australia? 
-I do not think that it would be proper for this motion to be agreed to without someone from Tasmania putting the speech of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Greenwood)  in true perspective. It was not made on behalf of Tasmania at all; it was made as part of a vendetta against  Senator Hall  of South Australia. I do not believe that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition cares 2 hoots about Tasmania so long as he can pursue a personal vendetta. If  Senator Greenwood  has paid any attention to the debate today he will realise that the simple fact is that as to the first part of the amendment, the total grants for Tasmania in the current financial years are nearly double those made during the last full year of his Party's administration. As to the second part of the amendment, the Liberals have just copied  Mr Whitlam  's policy speech. After 23 years of non-action the simple fact is that very shortly after the Federal election in December 1972 the Nimmo commission was appointed to deal with every issue of freight rates to Tasmania. 
-Are you criticising  Mr Nimmo? 
-Of course, we now have an expert on transport from Tasmania, and that is  Senator Marriott.  He was so expert that in the period of nearly 20 years as a Liberal senator he failed to persuade his Party to do one thing in relation to the very matters of which he complains tonight. That puts his interjection in proper perspective. I did not want to speak at length on the third reading because I had already spoken on the second reading, but I did wish to draw the Senate's attention to the very obvious reason why  Senator Greenwood  rose to speak tonight. He cannot bury his dislike of  Senator Hall. 
It is a remarkable but sad reflection on the objectivity of the Liberal-Country Party Opposition that in a debate on a measure which generously ensures the future governmental financial viability of the State of Tasmania it should, through its principal  speaker  in the debate, confine itself to vilifying the Australian Government and hardly mentioning the name of the measure being debated.  Senator Rae  certainly failed to refer to any of the terms of the measure or to attempt to explain to the Senate what it is all about. The pattern that was followed by  Senator Rae  is similar to that which was followed in the House of Representatives when this Bill was debated in that chamber. For  Senator Rae  to organise his emotional approach by relying on editorial headings in the newspaper of his own city shows how bankrupt he is of any real arguments with which to attack the Australian Government. Since he did not deign to explain what this Bill is about, I suppose the first  speaker  in the debate on this side of the chamber today ought to do so. It is a Bill which has 3 basic objectives. 
-The honourable senator has already spoken for half an hour. If he cannot take a little criticism such as that then he is not learning very fast. There are 3 points that I would make as to what this Bill does. Firstly, it increases by $ 15m the amount of financial assistance to Tasmania in the current financial year. Secondly, it writes into the States Grants Act 1973 the sum of $ 15m as part of the base upon which future grants under that Act to the State of Tasmania will be determined. In other words, it provides a permanent extra growth factor of $15m. Thirdly, it is clearly the means whereby Tasmania was able to escape from the Grants Commission system to which it had been tied for some 41 years and, so far as smokers in Tasmania were concerned, it was the means whereby they did not, following the judgment of the High Court of Australia early this year, have to continue to pay the tax which had been imposed despite the opinion of the High Court. 
All that is of the essence of this Bill, and  Senator Rae  did not make one syllable of reference to it. I thought that we could have done without his reliance upon the editorials of the 'Examiner'. The uncontroverted fact- this ought to be stated in view of the irrelevant remarks of  Senator Rae-  is that as a result of this Bill the total grants to Tasmania in the current financial year are nearly double the total of those grants in the last full year of Liberal-Country Party administration, namely 1971-72. When I refer to the total grants, I include all general purpose grants and all special purpose grants, both capital and income. The figures, which I have taken from official documents, are these: In 1971-72, which was the last full year of Liberal-Country Party administration, the total of those grants was, in round figures, $122m. In 1972-73, during which period both major parties were in government, the figure was $ 140m. In 1973-74, which was the first full year of Labor administration, the figure was $164m. In 1974-75, which is the current financial year, the total is $2 1 5 m. So the total has been increased to $2 15m in a space of 3 years. 
Yet the debate on the Bill which provides for that amount is used by  Senator Rae  as the vehicle for a vilification of the Australian Government, that told us nothing new, that was largely unsubstantiated, that was not particularised and which, I suggest, was simply a product of his anti-Labor attitude. But, of course, he is not consistent in his anti-Labor attitude because for some little time he has been flirting with the unions in Tasmania. He was away from the Senate for a time yesterday flirting with the unions on a matter which he said was of such importance that the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  should have laid aside what he was doing in Canberra and travelled to Tasmania to attend this epoch making rally. Even Tasmania's anti-Labor Press gave it the heading: 'North Snubs Union Rally'. That is the mighty meeting that this senator, who flirts with the unions when he thinks it might advantage him, suggests presumably that all members of Parliament and senators from Tasmania should have attended. 
Let me return to the measure that is before the Senate. An important factor in this Bill is that the specific increase of $ 15m in the grant for Tasmania for the current financial year will be written into the base figure for calculating on an escalating basis the grants for future years. This means that in perpetuity, so long as this legislation remains, Tasmania will receive an added growth factor. It was the absence of a growth factor that for almost the whole of the period of Liberal administration- between 1949 and 1972-held Tasmania back. That fact was asserted time after time in my hearing by the Premier of Tasmania,  Mr Bethune,  between 1969 and 1972. That has been remedied by a Labor Government. 
I will confine myself for the time being at least to the contents of this Bill. The legislation is historic because, as I have said, it is the practical vehicle whereby Tasmania can get out of the clutches of the Grants Commission. The disadvantages of being in the clutches of the Grants Commission, quite apart from the actual grants that are made, are matters that I will refer to later. I have said that as a result of this Bill and other measures the total grants to Tasmania for the current financial year are nearly double those for the last full year of the Liberal Administration. But quite apart from that general statement, the simple fact is- contrary to the impression that  Senator Rae  would seek to create- that many areas in Tasmania have been completely revitalised by the new initiatives of the Australian Government in less than 2 years. 
-The honourable senator, who has spoken for a full half hour and still wants to continue his speech from his seat, .will not divert me from quoting from proper documents and from illustrating the point I am making. I have said that large areas have been opened up in Tasmania as a result of the initiatives of the present Government. I refer to expenditure on new areas, expenditure on areas which had been left financially arid over a period of nearly a quarter of a century. They are set out in an extremely convenient form on pages 4 and 5 of the document headed 'Grants to Tasmania' which was part of the Tasmanian Budget papers which were tabled in the House of Assembly in Tasmania a few weeks ago in relation to the present Budget. It is a document that I would commend to  Senator Rae.  Since last time I referred to a document he asked whether he could borrow it by my tabling it, I offer to do the same thing in relation to this one if he is interested at all. But I doubt whether he is interested. 
I just mention a few of the areas that, by virtue of Australian Government initiative, have been made fertile in a period of less than 2 years. I use the same words as are used in the document to which I have referred. These areas are as follows: Dental therapy assistance, pre-school education, community recreation complexes, the State Strategy Plan, urban public transport, community health, community mental health and the National Estate. I will not pause to read them all as there are 2 pages of them. But it is because of what the present Government has done that that situation is possible. It is a gross distortion of the truth for  Senator Rae  to use this measure as a vehicle for a general condemnation of a Government which has shown more interest in Tasmania, both when in Opposition and in the past period of nearly 2 years, than was shown by the Liberal-Country Party Administration for nearly a quarter of a century. 
As you no doubt know,  Mr President,  before 1972 it was a rarity to see a Liberal Minister in Tasmania. The children in the streets used to stare at them and ask 'Who are they?' as if they were men from the moon. What a contrast even then with the attitude of the present Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  who, as Leader of the Opposition, made himself familiar with Tasmania's problems. I well remember the occasion when he responded to an invitation to go to a tiny placeMount Nelson- near Hobart and open a school dental clinic on a Saturday morning. That is the measure of the interest that the present Prime Minister had in Tasmania. The measure of the interest that the Liberal Party had in Tasmania is that its members were hardly ever seen, except at election time. I do not wonder that, according to Press reports, the Liberal Party has decided to introduce a special platform into its policy called the Tasmanian platform. I can understand that after its clean-sweep defeat in 1972 in the House of Representatives and after its clean-sweep defeat in 1974 in the House of Representatives it would take heed from the Labor Party and say to itself 'It's time; we must think again', because 10 ducks and 10 innings is a pretty poor political record. 
If he was supported by some of his union friends maybe he would get a game, but it was not a very promising performance yesterday, was it? The Labor Party is not at all concerned that at long last, after 25 weary years, the Liberal Party has at last decided that Tasmania is of sufficient importance to merit some special policy considerations. The Government welcomes it. It would be delighted. But it knows of course from past experience that for a quarter of a century the Liberal Party was not interested and it wonders what has caused this sudden interest in Tasmania. What is it? 
-No, I do not believe that it is related at all to  Senator Townley.  I believe that it is a question of trying to impress the selectors after 10 ducks in succession. Reverting to the Bill - 
-At least the honourable senator who interjects now knows that it is customary at times in a speech on a Bill to refer to its terms. I come back for the third or fourth time to the Bill. I imagine that the honourable senator is rather sorry that he did not refer to it in at least one sentence. I have said that, as a result of this Bill and other measures, the total grants for Tasmania of all kinds for the current financial year will be a little more than $2 1 5m. The significance of that, I suggest, is seen more clearly when the Tasmanian Budget is analysed. This is of extreme importance when the general, unparticularised charge of neglect has been made as it has been this afternoon. According to the Budget figures- again for  Senator Rae's  benefit I will let him see the official papers if he wishes- the estimated total Consolidated Revenue for Tasmania this financial year will be $247.9m. The estimated Loan Fund expenditure will be $86. 5m, making a total of $334.4m. So when one considers that $2 15m of that revenue and capital expenditure is being found from Australian Government sources one realises that the simple arithmetical fact is that about two-thirds of the total funds available for Tasmania come directly from the Australian Government. That I suggest is a record that the Liberal Party never got near in nearly a quarter of a century. I suggest that its new Tasmanian platform will not go within a bull 's roar of it, if I can put it that way. 
How many goes does  Senator Rae  want? He speaks on the adjournment, he speaks on Bills but does not refer to them and he continually interjects. We know he is making a ploy and I propose to ignore him. I pass on to the third aspect of this Bill which I mention and that is the fact that it permits Tasmania to leave the Grants Commission system. The announcement that was made on 1 1 June this year by the Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  and the Premier of Tasmania,  Mr Reece,  ended, I would remind the Senate, a continuous association between Tasmania and the Grants Commission for a period of 41 years dating back to the inception of the Grants Commission in the early 1930s. The announcement also ended Tasmania's association with section 96 of the Constitution because even long before the Grants Commission was established Tasmania had, going back to 1912-13, received section 96 grants from the national Government. 
It is important that the Senate should appreciate from one who has had some experience of the operation of the system just what the advantages of this legislation are, particularly in the context of the Grants Commission that I have just mentioned. The first advantage is that starting with this financial year and continuing so long as the legislation remains, and escalating, Tasmania  will  receive an extra $15m. Compare that with the grants that it received in the past 3 years through the Grants Commission: 1970-71 $9.6m; 1971-72 9.65m; 1972-73 $10m; and 1 973-74 $ 10m. I point out in relation to those last 2 years that because of the arrangements made in June of this year between the Australian Government and the Tasmanian Government there were no completion grants, but unfortunately in recent years they had been running in the negative. So that was a fortuitous thing for Tasmania. As I have said, that extra amount is written in and, together with increases in population, increases in the average national wage and the betterment factor of 1 .8 per cent, ensures for Tasmania continuing governmental financial viability so long as the State is managed properly. 
The second important aspect is that no matter what the Grants Commission said- and it kept saying it for over 40 years- as a matter of practical consideration it did influence Tasmanian Government policy. The Grants Commission was always careful to say: 'We are not directing you as to what your policy on any particular issue should be. All we say is that if you do a particular thing then, depending upon the position in the standard States of Victoria and New South Wales, you may be financially prejudicially affected'. A supreme example of that is in relation to poker machines which have been verboten on Tasmania for a very long time but which seem to grow from strength to strength in New South Wales. As a result of Tasmania not having poker machines and one of the standard States having them, Tasmania has for a very long time been penalised approximately Sim per annum. So the Grants Commission has been able indirectly and in effect to influence policy. Those days, so long as Tasmania does not have to go back to the Grants Commission have ended. 
The third thing I mention simply for the sake of completeness but make no comment on is that the arrangement made between the Australian and Tasmanian Governments which has resulted in this legislation enabled the Tasmanian Government to put in mothballs the somewhat ill-fated tobacco tax legislation which caused so much controversy, at least after the High Court decision was given in February or March this year. That is what this legislation does for Tasmania. It has been said by  Senator Rae  that there is complete disinterest by the Australian Government in Tasmania. I have already indicated how, in contrast with the attitude of the LiberalCountry Party Government, the present Government has in effect saturated Tasmania with visits displaying its interest. I have had the welcome opportunity of being associated with a number of Ministers in my very brief time in the Senate on their visits to Tasmania. Dealing with the merits of this Bill I want to quote from what was said by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  when it was debated in another place because I want to get back to the fundamentals of this Bill to indicate that Tasmania is receiving very just treatment indeed. As recorded at page 2009 of Hansard on 1 October,  Mr Barnard  said, speaking of the Bill: 
It arose because we believed that the Tasmanian Government was entitled to some improvement in its financial affairs. When we are debating a Bill which involves an amount of $ 1 5m it should be remembered - 
This is the point-  that this is the amount that was asked for by the Premier of Tasmania- no more and no less. It was not reduced. The Treasury officials and I- at that time I was the Deputy Prime Minister- agreed that if this was the requirement of the Tasmanian Government it represented a fair proposal, and the $ 15m was granted. 
Can  Senator Rae  or any of his colleagues point to a case in which his Government, their Government, treated Tasmania as generously as is summed up in that sentence I have read from  Mr Barnard's  speech? I think that Seantor Rae ought to hang his head in shame because he lives close to the Bell Bay railway and he knows- it has been stated so often- that the deal that was done by the Liberal-Country Party Government led by  Mr McMahon  in relation to assistance to Tasmania to establish that railway was the worst in the history of Federation. Contrast that with a situation in which every cent that is asked for by the Premier of the State is granted. What a mockery that makes of  Senator Rae's  criticism, in the context of this Bill, of the Australian Government! 
I do not doubt that the honourable senator will use up my last two or three minutes with another inane interjection. He does not need to tell us he will reply. He speaks on the adjournment most nights on this subject. It has become a nightly affair. I am proud to be associated with this Bill. I do not agree personally with everything that is done by the Australian Government in relation to Tasmania or any other State. One would be a rather weak creature if one meekly agreed with everything. But by and large the Australian Government has shown a real and genuine interest in Tasmania and in this Bill which is what we are really concerned with at this moment. It has acted generously and, I believe, wisely and in a way for which future generations of Australians will come to thank the Australian Government and not vilify it in the manner in which  Senator Rae  chose to do so tonight. 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer and I ask: Will the Treasurer cause an investigation to be made into the extent to which manufacturers, wholesalers, distributors and retailers of essential commodities spent money on advertising on television, radio and in the Press, with the view to establishing (a) the effect of such advertising on the prices of essential consumer goods; (b) the extent to which the cost of such advertising has increased in the past 10 years; and (c) whether the imposition of a special tax on such advertisements is practicable and, if so, what effect it it likely to have on consumer prices? 
-Pursuant to standing order 408 I seek the leave of the Senate to explain a matter of a personal nature. 
I wish to speak to the amendment moved by  Senator Guilfoyle.  I make the observation that I have listened for some hours last night and today to the debate in the Committee stage on this Bill. I agree that it is an extremely important Bill. I think it would be a very great pity, in view of the spirit of compromise that at times has been observed in this debate, if at the very end of it, when considering the combined effect of clause 3, as it would read if this amendment were agreed to, and clause 10, one of the basic objectives of the Bill was frustrated by ultimately clause 10 not being agreed to in its amended form. 
I find it rather impossible to put to the Committee the suggestion I am about to make without considering clause 10 in conjunction with clause 3, because the amendment to clause 3 that is now before the Committee has as its main thrust clause 10. The purposes of the 2 clauses are intertwined. It seems to me that the Opposition would not wish it to be suggestedtherefore, I do not suggest it- that it would seek to do anything which would inhibit the widespread distribution of films which were made under the power contained in clause 5 (1) (b), which sets out the 3 categories of films that we are considering. As I say, the Opposition would not wish it to be suggested that it would not wish to see a wide dissemination of films which, in the words of clause 5 ( 1 ) (b) (i), (ii) and (iii) respectively, are films that serve the purpose of a department of state, films that deal with matters of national interest to Australia or films that are designed to illustrate or interpret aspects of Australia or of the life and activities of the Australian people. I am sure that, conceding for a moment the sincerity of  Senator Greenwood  's desire that private film distributors as he terms them should not find undue competition from films made by the Commission, nevertheless the public has to be considered in this matter. I suggest that it is in the public interest that there be the widest possible dissemination of films properly made pursuant to the power contained in clause 5 ( 1 ) (b) (i), (ii) and (iii). 
It seems to me that  Senator Guilfoyle's  amendment and the thrust of  Senator Greenwood's  speech which he delivered just before lunch were designed to ensure, as  Senator Greenwood  said, firstly, that there was not improper competition with private film distributors and, secondly, if I may use my own words to paraphrase his words, that films which might have some improper political bias were not included in the quota. Although the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland),  who is in charge of the Bill, sought to overcome the second of those objections by the offer that he made this morning, unfortunately it was rejected. Therefore, with the concurrence of the Minister, I put to honourable senators the suggestion that the difficulty would be overcome essentially if after the word 'films' last occurring in clause 10 (2) (b) (i) words to this effect were added:  and in the case of films of a kind referred to in paragraph 5 ( 1) (b) (i), (ii) and (iii)-- 
That is, the films that concern the members of the Opposition-  certified by the Commission to be films which are appropriate for inclusion in the proportion so specified. 
That puts on the matter a different thrust from that which was rejected by the Opposition this morning pursuant to the Minister's offer. In other words, there would be an additional requirement in relation to clause 10 that not only must the films which are the subject of a requirement under that clause be certified by the Commission to be Australian short films but additionally, I emphasise, in the case of films which were made under the power contained in clause 5 (1) (b) (i). (ii) and (iii) there would be a further certification by the Commission that they were appropriate to be included in a requirement given under clause 10. 1 suggest that that would remove any suggestion that, if ever a film came into existence which had some improper political overtones, it could be included in the quota system. The Commission- an independent statutory body- would have the additional duty of saying: That film is appropriate for inclusion in the specified proportion under clause 10 (2) (b) (i)'. I realise that I am speaking primarily to clause 10. But it is impossible to consider the effect of the Opposition's amendment to clause 3 without examining what is its purpose. Clearly, its purpose is related to clause 10. 1 am grateful for the opportunity to pursue the matter in this way. 
So I repeat what I have said in what may be a final effort to avoid a very desirable provision of this Bill being lost. With the approval of the Minister, I ask the Opposition whether it would consider withdrawing the amendment to clause 3 on the basis that when clause 10 is reconsidered by the Committee there will be inserted at the end of clause 10(2) (b) (i), after the word 'films', the requirement that I have mentioned, namely, that there be a further certification by the Commission, completely free of any ministerial control or direction in this matter- a requirement that the Commission should certify the film to be appropriate for inclusion in the films that would come into the quota system. I think I have made the position plain. Finally, I simply say that I believe it would be a sad day if, in the Committee's final consideration of a Bill to strengthen the Australian film industry, there should be deleted from the Bill a provision which is designed to buttress up the Austraiian film industry and, in particular, Film Australia and to ensure a wide dissemination on the public interest of films which are basically in the national interest and which portray national sentiment and associated matters. I put forward that suggestion. If it falls on favourable ears, the Government will know what the position will be when we come to deal with clause 10. 

 -Mr President, I speak for the first time in a debate on the adjournment. I say to  Senator Greenwood  that I have never heard such a contemptible speech as he uttered tonight, especially the last sentence of it in which the clear inference was made that legal process in the course of being instituted is for the purpose of stopping some political comment. That,  Sir, is  a lie. 
-The word is withdrawn and I substitute for it 'complete untruth'. If a first year law student had given the purported lecture on law given by  Senator Greenwood  tonight I doubt whether he would have got a rough pass. For it to have come from the hps of a former Australian Attorney-General indicates the complete bankruptcy of the Opposition. But what I resent more than anything else is that a former Attorney-General of Australia should deny to persons- in this case 5 members of this Senatethe right to issue legal process. 
You will have your chance to comment on advertisements, with which I suggest you are more familiar than most in this chamber, at a later stage and I think you know what I mean by that. It is perfectly clear,  Mr President,  that the announcement that was made in the Senate last night on behalf of 5 members of this chamber has touched the Opposition very much on the raw. 
Opposition Senators- Ha, ha! 
-The laugh that comes from a person who is very much involved in this matter, I suggest, indicates that the Opposition realises that that is so. I did not say last night that a writ had been issued. 
I did not imply it. The Hansard record of what I said is available. The newspapers in Tasmania faithfully reported what I said, and in no case could it be suggested that I implied that a writ had been issued. I said that a decision had been made by 5 senators to issue a writ; I said that instructions for its issue had been given that day. That is one thing. For  Senator Greenwood  to mouth words about democracy and at the same time deny the right of citizens, be they members of this Parliament or not, to issue a writ if they consider that they have been defamed is, I suggest, a complete inconsistency. I suggest that more important than so-called freedom of speech in this chamber- if what we have listened to for the last half hour is called freedom of speech, I will have to revise my definition of it- is that persons who consider that they have been wronged and who have a case at law to pursue should not be inhibited by such rantin as we have heard tonight from pressing their claims. 
It is perfectly obvious that what  Senator Greenwood  chose to do was to select the statement that I made last night as a vehicle for speaking on the adjournment in relation to Tasmanian affairs. I welcome  Senator Greenwood  's new found interest in Tasmania. I hope that he enjoys his forthcoming visit to that State. But when one gets on to the merits of the treatment of Tasmania- I have already canvassed that once in this chamber in recent days and 1 will not do it again- I point out that it is a Gilbertian situation that a person from New South Wales- like myself, a newcomer to this national Parliament -is, according to an announcement today, to be the new shadow Minister for the State of Tasmania. 
I simply state what has been published in the Press. It is  Mr Ellicott,  MHR. 
I said that it had been announced today. It was so announced in the Hobart 'Mercury' that  Mr Ellicott  had been appointed the shadow Minister for Tasmania. It is on the front page of the 'Mercury '. I can understand  Senator Rae's  consternation at that appointment, because the movement of  Senator Rae,  who is the chief protagonist in this matter that we are debating, is most significant. From shadow Minister for Education at the time of the last election, we have him emerging shortly afterwards as the shadow Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, and I pass no reflection on the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh).  I do point out that we do not have an Aboriginal population in Tasmania, as so called. I can imagine that  Senator Rae  was most anxious to get out of that somewhat invidious situation and become shadow Minister for Tasmania in this Parliament, but it was not to be, and New South Wales has obtained another plum in the shadow Ministry. 
Because this matter is one that I treat quite seriously, I should like  Senator Rae,  when he speaks on this matter tonight as I have no doubt he will, to inform the Senate of what knowledge he had of the advertisements that are complained of before he saw them published in the Press, or before they were published in the Press. I do not want to pause to read them, but the wording has a very familiar ring. These advertisements that were published in the 3 newspapers in Tasmania yesterday, as I said when I spoke last night, represent a continuation, in the view of 5 senators, of a campaign of untruths and misrepresentations of a defamatory character. Quite frankly, the 5 senators - 
-The 5 senators took that view, and we do not want  Senator Greenwood's  judgment as to the basis of the proceedings that have been referred to. 
I do not intend to be diverted by that nonsense.  Senator Greenwood  said tonight- and this came from a former Australian Attorney-General- that he questioned the basis for the proceedings. Any more impudent intrusion into a private legal case I have never heard. Do not say that Hansard will not record that,  Senator Greenwood,  because that was noted with clarity even here. He questioned the basis of it. I would think that a former Australian Attorney-General would have known that when a writ has been issued or is about to be issued, one thing that ought not to be said in this chamber under the cloak of privilege is any comment on the merits of the matter. 
Who was that? 
We have another champion of democracy, do we, from Victoria? I am challenging the statement that  Senator Greenwood  uttered tonight, the propriety of it, that he questioned the basis of the proceedings. Does  Senator Missen  suggest that it is proper in view of the situation that he knows exists that in this chamber under privilege utterances should be made as to the basis for legal proceedings? 
Absolute nonsense. I did not canvass the issues. I did not even read the advertisements yesterday and I do not pause to read them now. I have complained about the contemptible character of  Senator Greenwood's  utterances. I have pointed out - 
I recall that I used the expression 'contemptible utterances'. I do not indulge in personalities of the sort purportedly complained of. 
-The hollow laughter of  Senator Rae  does not affect the truth of that statement. 
I withdraw it, of course, but I wish to say that I do not believe that I used it in relation to an individual but only in respect of his utterances. That is what I thought I said. If it is thought that I used the word in relation to an individual I of course withdraw it. I summarise what I wish to say simply by repeating that it is perfectly obvious that the statement made in the Senate last night is a matter of some consternation to members of the Opposition. Otherwise why have they raised it? I assure  Senator Greenwood  that I will not have jack boots trampled on a court writ to which I am a party. Despite all that, I wish him a pleasant trip to Tasmania for the weekend. 
I think it is true to say that the attention of many thousands of people throughout Australia is focused on the Senate as it debates the Family Law Bill and that that attention will continue to be given to this debate until the Committee stage has been concluded. It is therefore to me pleasing to observe, if I may do so, that the debate on this Bill, which by now has extended over some hours, has been of an extremely high standard, free from the acrimony which is often associated with debates in this chamber and, I believe, indicative of the fact that it is the wish of all honourable senators to ensure that the best family law legislation can be enacted without undue delay. I certainly recognise that the Bill is an extremely important measure which potentially can affect a significant number of Australian citizens. I believe that it therefore merits the utmost attention of the Senate. Before I deal with some matters of detail I wish to place on record 2 facts; firstly that I was a member of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs which examined the detailed provisions of this Bill and, secondly, that over a long period I practised professionally in this jurisdiction in the State of Tasmania both at supreme court and lower court levels. 
When one examines the divorce laws which have existed over a long period in England and in Australia it is obvious that they reflect the social attitudes and the mores of their time. Specifically, it is clear that over the past 15 years there has been a significant transition from the law and practice of the ecclesiastical courts, as it was reflected in our law, towards a less rigid attitude, towards a desire that much of the acrimony that traditionally has been associated with proceedings in this jurisdiction should be abated. For many years, ever since the passage of the Matrimonial Causes Act 1959 and its coming into operation in early 1961, attention has been paid by politicians, lawyers, church groups and the like to whether the existing law measured up to the standards that were appropriate in these times. I simply mention that the former Liberal Party Attorney-General, the Honourable Nigel Bowen, as long ago as early 1968, in writing a foreword to a standard textbook on Australian divorce law and practice, used these words: 
Once again, only some 8 years after the passing of the Act, we are entering a further period of discussion and debate as to the adequacy of our divorce law, not because of faults in the legislation but because divorce law is so closely tied to social attitudes and conventions which are these days subjected to continual revaluation. 
Proposals of reform have ranged from the suggestion that marriage should be a 5 -year renewable contract, recently put forward by an American social worker,  Mrs Virginia  Satir, to more sophisticated proposals for including breakdown of marriage as a ground for divorce and the introduction of family courts and courts of domestic relations. 
I wish to refer now to what the authors of that standard textbook said in their introduction.' Writing as they were in relation to the new Federal Matrimonial Causes Act, I think it is significant that even then they cast their minds ahead as to whether the 1959 legislation had gone far enough. In their introduction the authors state: 
In order to obtain a decree of dissolution of marriage, one of the grounds set out in section 28 of the Act must be proved, but it is becoming increasingly clear that the facts which constitute the individual grounds are normally only manifestations of the breakdown of the marriage. Lawyers practising in this field now, to a greater extent than in previous generations, tend to investigate first whether there has been such a breakdown before they determine what particular ground is then available, or may become available, to the party seeking dissolution. . . . It is to be expected therefore that the next substantial legislative change to the grounds will be to add a ground which refers simply to the breakdown of a marriage rather than a ground which selects yet another of the various types of human conduct which might be thought to be a matrimonial offence. 
The proposal has already been made both in England and in Australia that a further ground to be added should be that, if the court is satisfied that the marriage has irreparably or irredeemably broken down that should be alone a sufficient ground for dissolving the marriage. 
I think that it is proper in considering whether this Bill should be read a second time and whether the Committee should proceed, to ask oneself the question: Do the existing laws, practice and procedure measure up to the standard that we consider is appropriate and proper in 1974? For that purpose it is necessary to consider what the existing law provides and the extent, if any, to which it has been proved to be deficient. So I proceed in the introductory part of my speech to the Senate to examine the case for change. The first point that I would stress is that the concepts and the procedure of the existing law are still rooted in the ecclesiastical past. The shadow of the ecclesiastical courts of England still hangs heavily over our divorce law, practice and procedure. The 1959 Act really did not achieve the reforms that perhaps some people believed it did achieve. I think that it is true to say that it affected only 2 significant reforms. It did certainly reform procedure- whether for better or for worse I will examine later- but there were really only 2 significant substantive provisions which emerged from that legislation. 
The first was the introduction on a national scale, for the first time, of 5 years separation as an additional ground for divorce. But, of course, separation for that period had already been the law in Western Australia since, I think, 1944, and for some time in New Zealand. The second set of provisions of a substantial kind which the 1959 legislation introduced was in relation to property settlements. The rigidity which had applied before 1959, or before 1961 when the Act became effective, was to some degree taken out of the law but- in a manner that I hope to examine later- only to some extent. Side by side with those merely 2 significant amendments of the law, the 1959 legislation still preserved the criminal nature- I emphasise the words 'criminal nature'- of the proceedings in the old ecclesiastical courts. Thus, the 1959 legislation still referred to jactitation of marriage and I doubt whether more than one in a thousand would know precisely what that was; damages against a co-respondent preserved the old action for criminal conversation, as is was called; discretion statements were made which seem to have been devised simply for the edification or enjoyment of the privileged class, the judges, who alone were entitled to read them; collusion was a bar although in a modified form; and there were other relics of an ecclesiastical past that was concentrated on the criminal aspect of these matrimonial matters. 
So the first point in considering whether or not there is a case for change is whether or not the concepts and procedures of the existing divorce law are such as improperly and unnecessarily to preserve an association with the attitudes of the old ecclesiastical courts. I think the second matter that is relevant in this consideration is the excessive legalism which has surrounded the divorce law and its practice. I believe that it is true to say that, even worse than the first point I have made, the 1959 legislation preserved the old procedure and the attitude of the courts to matrimonial causes. The result of that has been excessive legalism causing delay and expense in a jurisdiction which even then demanded the very opposite approach. I think it is true to say in this context that the traditional role of the courts has been based on the fallacious assumptionfallacious so I would argue- that to make divorce difficult, costly, degrading and certainly undignified would contribute to the so-called sanctity of marriage. I believe that that concept heavily lies over both our law and our practice during recent decades. I repeat that I consider it to be a fallacious assumption. The result has been that unnecessary humiliation and distress have been caused in a way which I do not think has particularly reflected credit on our legislators. 
By and large, the attitude of the courts has been a conservative one. I do not blame them for that because the pattern and the legislative framework were determined by Parliament. One only has to read some of the law reports to appreciate how formalistic the approach of the courts has been, despite the 1959 legislation, and still is. Let me give some examples. So far as the standard of proof of adultery is concerned Briginshaw's case- which perhaps is the most well known- and a number of other subsequent cases laid down that the standard, so the High Court determined, was to be that of the ordinary civil jurisdiction but subject to the rule of prudence, that a court should act with caution before finding such a ground established. That enunciation of the standard of proof has led to lengthy trials in which the evidence is based on association, on opportunity and on intimacy whilstthis is the point in relation to this Bill- the judge, the parties and their counsel all know that the marriage had finished before the acts complained of for other causes and that the alleged ground was the outcome rather than the cause of the breakdown. 
Secondly, so far as desertion is concerned, I say positively from experience that perfectly decent people have been obliged to distort the facts to accord with the law's requirement that one party, in order to establish desertion, must be found to have left the other party against the will of that other party; whereas those with experience in this jurisdiction know full well that in a very large number of desertion cases the leaving is consensual; but to prevent the other party defending the case and revealing the true position large sums are frequently paid or extorted from the petitioning party and are blessed by the court- because the court has no option to do otherwise- as a so-called property settlement. These farcical hearings have brought the courts and the administration of justice into disrepute and have been humiliating to judges and to legal practitioners alike. 
I mention a third so-called fault ground that is in our present law and that is, cruelty. The simple fact is that the anxiety of the courts in Australia to avoid divorce on the ground of mental cruelty or incompatibility has made the legal requirement to satisfy this ground increasingly difficult to meet, thus causing considerable hardship to wives who are regrettably ill-treated. The legal position is that until 1963 when the House of Lords made 2 decisions in this context, it was necessary for the petitioning party to prove that the other spouse intended to injure her by the cruel acts alleged. Similarly, in constructive desertion it has been necessary that the other spouse intended his expulsive conduct to drive a petitioner out of the home, that is, that an intention to cause those results had to be established. It is true that this position was rectified by section 29 of the present Matrimonial Causes Act. But, almost as if by a reflex action in reverse and in response to the legislature's amendment- this is well acknowledged in the legal profession- the courts toughened up the standard of conduct required to justify a spouse leaving the home to such an extent that in Tasmania constructive desertion has almost disappeared as a ground for divorce. 
Also, it is true in Tasmania and I believe in at least some other States, depending upon the particular judge before whom a particular matter comes, that in respect of the ground of cruelty although it is no longer necessary to prove an intention it is still necessary to establish what the courts have called 'grave and weighty misconduct' and, in addition, actual injury to the health of the complaining spouse or serious apprehension thereof. The simple fact is that continuous physical violence for 12 months and sexual perversity of an aggravated kind for the same period, so far as Tasmania is concerned and I do not imagine the position there is essentially different from that in other States, have become the only certain criteria for divorce based on the ground of cruelty. 
One can consider finally in this context the question of habitual drunkenness. I make the assertion that the standard of proof in relation to habitual drunkenness has been maintained at unrealistic standards by many judges. In a recent case in Tasmania a judge held that because there was no definition of 'habitual drunkenness' in the present legislation the proper course to take was to apply the common law rules, and that he could not grant a petition in the case of a person who was habitually drunk but was not violent in association with his drunkenness. This case is reported in the law reports; I do not mention the names of the parties involved. It was a case in which a man drank himself into a condition of complete stupor continually and habitually. He did this until he reached a stage where it was necessary to take him to hospital. He was there dried out and returned home, where the same procedure went on again until he was again back in hospital. The court, no doubt thinking that it was applying the law properly, took the view that because there was no actual violence or cruelty to the wife in the course of the drunken episodes the ground of habitual drunkenness had not been made out. 
Another respect in which I think it is necessary to examine whether or not the present law is in need of alteration is the procedure. This is because it is based on the adversary system of justice. That simply means that from the moment a party approaches a solicitor the conflict begins in a litigious form of a very complex kind. I do not doubt that most solicitors do their best to resolve matrimonial disputes short of divorce in an understanding way, in the hope of reconciliation or at least with a view to agreement rather than litigation between the parties. But the adversary system makes that very difficult and highly improbable in most cases. 
The present adversary system is, in my submission to the Senate, singularly unsuitable for the trial of matrimonial issues which under a fault system involve a meticulous examination of the most minute details of marital life to be conducted in an atmosphere of bitter recrimination, usually involving relatives and children and sometimes dividing families. As a supreme example of that, I cite a fairly recent Tasmanian case in which a woman in defended divorce proceedings was cross-examined so comprehensively in relation to the intimate personal details of her marital life that during the course of the case she committed suicide. Do we really wish to retain a system that can lead to those results? I suggest no. 
The procedural rules and the legal principles developed over centuries in relation to the application of the Matrimonial Causes Act to factual circumstances are extremely complex. They are choked with fine definitions and doctrines having little bearing on the reality of life as it exists today. The fact is that the standard text book on Australian matrimonial law, practice and procedure runs to over 1,000 pages, with already a supplement of over 200 pages. There are over 300 procedural rules. By the time all the prescribed steps have been taken, an ordinary undefended divorce usually occupies some months in preparation for hearing and then there is a wait of another period of months and at times years before a judge can be found to deal with the matter. 
Dealing with the complexity of the present rules, I hope I do not bore honourable senators when I read out to them what seems to me to be a supreme example of complexity that I hope will not be perpetuated in the new regulations under this legislation if it is passed. I refer to rule 20 sub-rule (2). If honourable senators who are listening cannot understand it, let me assure them that I have read this many times over many years and I do not know what it means. But let me see whether somebody else does. It is a rule relating to proceedings for default in payment of amounts assessed. It states: 
The last preceding sub-rule does not require the registrar to refer proceedings to the court unless the registrar is satisfied, by affidavit, that the total amount of the payments (including payments in respect of a period preceding the date of the assessment) that would have become due and payable on or before the date on which the request is filed if the assessment has been an order for the payment of maintenance in accordance with its tenor exceeds, by more than the amount of the weekly rate, or the sum of the weekly rates, specified in the assessment in pursuance of paragraph (a) of sub-rule (5.) of rule 204 of these Rules, the total amount paid by the spouse of the claimant for the maintenance of the claimant, of the child or of the claimant and the child, as the case may be, since the date of the assessment (excluding so much of any maintenance so paid as relates to a period preceding the date specified in the assessment in pursuance of paragraph (b) of that sub-rule). 
All that is stated almost without a comma, but with a few brackets apparently intended to make it a little more comprehensible. All I can say is that the draftsman has not made it comprehensible to me and I do not know what it means. 

 -As Senator Lawrie says, it is as clear as a dust storm. The next aspect with which I deal as indicating that the present law is inadequate relates to the property law provisions under the existing legislation. Without pausing to deal with it at any great length, I make the observation that one English judge- Lord Denningwhen he was a member of the Court of Appeal a long time ago endeavoured to ameliorate the position of a wife in this situation by holding that she had a right that transcended the ordinary legal position to an interest in the matrimonial home. But neither the House of Lords on appeal nor the High Court of Australia, in a case that went to that court, was willing to accept Lord Denning 's principle. So, as I have said, an endeavour to ameliorate the wife 's position failed. 
There are other respects in which the law relating to property matters is inadequate. One of them sees a situation in which, in order to prevent a particular piece of property, usually the matrimonial home, being dealt with by the courts in future divorce proceedings under the existing legislation, a husband will take action prematurely outside the divorce law in order to beat the wife's claims that he apprehends. I simply mention it now as the sort of thing which the Bill before the Senate makes impossible in the future. The detail of it I shall deal with later. 
The other area in which I feel there is considerable injustice now- injustice of a real characteris in relation to costs. I say without hesitation that a vast amount of the money that has been paid to lawyers over the years under the present system would have been far better spent in being applied to the proper purposes of the family, including the children. So long as the present system remains and so long as present procedure remains, the payment of sums that ought to be kept within the family or within one or more members of the family will go on. That also is one of the matters under this new Bill that I shall refer to later. 
Very briefly I have traversed a number of respects in which I believe it is true to say that the present law is inadequate and ineffective and there is a strong case for change. Once you reach the situation where you acknowledge that there is a strong case for change the question is: To what do you change the existing law? It was with that thought that I played my part as a member of the Senate Committee in making the report that has been distributed to the Senate. 
Although I do not know the precise form of the amendments to be moved, I understand that most of the recommendations of the Committee will be accepted by the Attorney-General. So it is proper that one should look at what is proposed to be substituted for the existing law. One should look at some of the detail of the Bill and of the Senate Committee's report. It would, of course, be true to say very simply that the 2 principal amendments that are proposed to the existing law are, firstly, with regard to the ground for dissolution of marriage and, secondly, with regard to the family court, and I propose to deal with each of those in turn. So far as the ground is concerned, I submit to the Senate that the experience of those who are familiar with the problems with which we are concerned- lawyers, sociologists and many other types of persons, including marriage guidance counsellors- is that the time has come to eliminate the fault concept so far as dissolution is concerned. In an endeavour to get what I hope would be regarded as an unbiased approach to this matter I quote a letter which I have no doubt all honourable senators have received from the Marriage Guidance Council of Australia, a Council with no vested interest in any respect in this matter. Its members have done considerable voluntary work in this context over a very long period and are persons who are able to see both sides of a deeply human problem. The letter, dated 24 September this year, reads as follows: 
Recently the Annual General Meeting of the National Marriage Guidance Council of Australia, comprising representatives of its Constituent Councils from all States, the Australian Capital Territory and Darwin, was held in Hoban. During its sessions a Resolution was carried in relation to the current Family Law Bill, August 1974. 
I have been instructed to write to you and your colleagues in both Houses of the Australian Parliament giving information concerning the terms of the Resolution. 
Resolution: 'That this National Marriage Guidance Council of Australia, in relation to the Family Law Bill, August 1974, welcomes the removal of" fault", and the introduction of "irretrievable breakdown" as the sole ground for dissolution of marriage. Far from viewing the change as a threat to the basis of marriage in Australia, it views the Bill as upholding the voluntary principle in marriage and thus enhances the marital relationship. It is also pleased to see the opportunity taken for the introduction in the Bill of a uniform Australian law concerning maintenance of spouses and children.' 
That, one would imagine, was the unanimous resolution of the Council and it is something that ought to be taken into account quite seriously by the Senate in determining whether or not clause 26 of this Bill expresses a proper attitude. 
I was interested in listening to the remarks of  Senator Baume  in relation to this matter and I would like to deal with two of the aspects with which he dealt. Although this is not necessarily the order in which  Senator Baume  presented them, first he said that he would like to see intolerable conduct introduced as an alternative basis of proof of irretrievable breakdown. I concede that superficially that is an attractive proposition. I want to be quite frank with the Senate and say that the Committee canvassed this quite considerably over a significant period and at one stage there was even an amendment prepared for consideration. But as the Committee's consideration went on, the view that I ultimately reached- albeit with some reservation- and that other members ultimately reached, I believe, and it is so recorded in the report, was that to introduce that alternative ground would be really putting the clock right back to a full maintenance of the concept of fault in our legislation.  Senator Baume,  I think rather charitably, did not refer in the context of having a fault ground retained, to the class of person- regrettably it exists and we have all had experience of itwhich will insist on complete vindictiveness in this situation. Where the alternative existed I concede that a lot of people would choose the easier path but there would be many persons, regrettably, who would choose the fault path. I believe that would destroy many of the good basic features of this legislation. 
Secondly, I am not certain that I was satisfied that  Senator Baume  was completely understanding what is meant in the technical sense by 'separation'. At one stage I thought he was and at another stage, perhaps because I missed some words, I thought he was not. But I want to make it perfectly plain that clause 26, as presented and in the form recommended by the Committee, requires that there be an actual separation followed by a period of continuous separation and living apart for 12 months. 'Separation' in this context is a well understood legal expression. It means an abandonment or repudiation if it is unilateral, or it could be bilateral, of the normal things that are involved in the marriage relationship. It is not a case of going to the Antarctic and having one's ship not turn up till 9 months after it should have. There must be a proven actual severing of the marriage relationship and a continuance of that for a period of 12 months before the ground could be established. Even so, there is in sub-clause 3 of clause 26 the saving provision so far as the court is concerned that it must not make a decree if it is satisfied that there is a reasonable likelihood of cohabitation being resumed. 
Let me say to  Senator Baume  that the experience of persons who have been involved, collectively, in thousands of cases- I will explain why I say that in a moment- is that after 12 months separation the chances of a resumption of the relationship are minimal in the extreme. I did not want to take my own professional experience as the only proof of that. I have taken pains in recent weeks to question my colleagues in the legal profession as to what their experience has been. Invariably, persons with 20, 30 or 40 years active experience in this jurisdiction have said: 'I find it hard to recollect a case in which, after separation of 12 months, the parties have come back again together in a normal matrimonial relationship'. I concede that that is not good proof. It is not the best proof, but perhaps it is the best proof that is available to me in this situation because I am not aware of statistics existing in relation to this matter. But that is the experience of those people. 
I say that in relation to the question whether the period should be 2 years or one year. As a member of the Committee, I supported one year because I felt that the very purpose of those who would seek to make it 2 years would be frustrated unwittingly if they did it. I will explain what I mean by that in a moment. In many cases in which a separation has begun there is association between one at least of the parties and someone else. If that situation is to continue legally for 2 years then I suggest that it would discourage the very moral desiderata that the proponents of 2 years had. I do not think there is any doubt whatsoever from actual cases that it could mean that a person who had been badly wronged- if I may continue to use that expression for the moment- matrimonially would have to wait for what could appear to that person to be an unconscionable period. 
I have in mind the young wife who is perhaps married to someone considerably older and a situation arises- the husband, let us say, leaves the matrimonial home. The wife is compelled to wait for a period of 2 years. The point is: Should she? Once we recognise that statutory provision for divorce is proper, and we have recognised it for a very long time, why should we impose an undue waiting period in those circumstances? The only reason, I feel, could be that it would preserve some marriages. But again I come back to the point that has been made by  Senator Missen  and  Senator James  McClelland this afternoon, that those with practical experience in these situations are convinced that it is not a case of saving marriages at all but that the breakdown has occurred before the parties seek advice and determine what they are going to do. The next thing I say to  Senator Baume  is that, under clause 90 of the present Bill, there is an immediate right of access to the courts in relation to matters other than dissolution. I would think from a practical point of view that clause 90 would be frequently availed of. Indeed, it would be necessary for some persons to avail themselves of clause 90 in that period after separation had begun and before any proceedings could be instituted under this legislation. 
Yes, they do, but I think that in that respect one has to remember that the procedure under this new legislation will be much quicker than under the existing legislation and that although one could immediately- let us say, in 3 months- institute proceedings now, in most States it would probably take another year before one could get to court, especially if there were any contest on the matter, because of the procedural requirements to which I have referred. I do not know whether anyone has the statistics on what is the average period from the time of the filing of a petition to the actual appearance in court. Even in Tasmania, where the numbers are not so great and the facilities to determine these matters exist, the period between the case being ready and the case being heard is now several months. That was not the position some few years ago. In other words, the delay is increasing. It has been said that in New South Wales in particular the delay is very great. I do not know precisely what it is. We may be told. 
But I just want to point out to  Senator Baume  that by this Bill there is not a full period of 12 months being withdrawn, as it were, from the party who wishes to avail himself or herself of the legislation because the simplified procedure will reduce the period that it will take in order to obtain a dissolution of marriage. I hope I have made that clear. So for those reasons I submit that the Committee's majority report is propernamely, that the period should be 12 months and not 2 years, as two of the members of the Committee urged. 
The second basic feature of the Committee's report which one understands will be accepted by the Government is the institution of the family court and the making of the family court the kernel of the administrative processes of the system established by this Bill.  Senator Missen  and 

 Senator James McClelland dealt with it in considerable detail. I will not pause to delay the Senate on that other than to say 2 things: Firstly, at the time of the Committee's deliberations the South Australian family court system was beginning to be regarded as the model on which the States could well base their systems. I know that in one State an investigation had been made and early this year legislation was about to be prepared for the establishment of a court on lines similar to that of South Australia. Secondly, and this is specifically in reply to  Senator Baume,  if the Committee's recommendation is adopted by the Senate there will be provision for reconciliation procedures without the filing of any papers whatsoever. Under the Act no application need be made if the Committee's recommendation is adopted before the counselling procedures of the family court can be set in train. That is something that may not be clear to some persons. I think it appears on page 22 of the report. 
The Committee certainly did not envisage, so far as I am aware, that the only source of counselling should be through the family court. It envisaged that twin streams of counselling procedures would be available. Those who chose to use the court's stream would have the right to do so irrespective of whether there was any application of any sort in contemplation or in actuality. On the other hand, if they preferred to use the stream of counselling procedures in what I might term the private sector they would be equally at liberty to do that. So it is not a case, if this was what  Senator Baume  had in his mind, where the family court counselling procedures would be in any way exclusive. The 2 streams would be available. I do not wish to detain the Senate on matters of detail at this stage because I imagine that it will be necessary to canvass many of them in the Committee stage. 
I refer to 2 aspects of the Bill and the Standing Committee 's report which I think are important from a practical point of view. One such aspect is legal aid and the recommendation of the Committee that it should be widely available. I do not hesitate to say that I am in no doubt that in the past there have been many cases in which the question of costs in relation to divorce and associated matters has been a complete scandal. I know of cases in which thousands of dollars has been expended on legal procedures which, as I said earlier, could much more properly have been put at the disposal of members of the family. Following the Committee's report I hope that the Australian Government in this area- I regard it as extremely important because it relates among other things to human happiness- will be generous in the degree of legal aid which it makes possible. That is not the present position. I understand that in some States legal aid is not available for matrimonial matters and in other States it is available but on a somewhat parsimonious scale. 
The remaining matter I want to mention relates to the Family Law Council which is dealt with on page 35 of the report of the Committee. Again I agree with  Senator Baume.  Even if this Bill is passed, I doubt whether we have seen the last of the efforts of the Australian Parliament to pass a completely proper family law Bill. I believe that that will occur only when the Council which is dealt with in clause 91 of the Bill- it is called a committee in the Bill as printed; but the Senate Committee recommended that it be termed a council- has embarked on its task in the expanded form which the Committee recommended. I think it is absolutely essential that that expansion take place. My personal comment on clause 91 as it stands is that it reads far too perfunctorily of a body which is set up to keep an eye on things and, maybe, to do something about them. I think the Family Law Council has to be brought into the on-going consideration of the propriety of our legislation in a very vital and very concerned way. I believe that out of its consideration of the effect of this legislation will ultimately come, together with some constitutional amendments- if they are possible- the ideal measure which  Senator Baume  has in mind. 
I wish to mention only 2 other matters. I see this Bill, if it is passed in substantially the form recommended by the Committee, as introducing for the first dme a benign, nationalistic approach to a matter which either affects or potentially can affect any family in the community. As such it must be regarded as an extremely important piece of legislation. Too often in the past we have had fragmented State approaches to these matters. I do not pause to go into them in detail. I can remember how clients used to ask about the blessedness of Western Australia as a place where they would like to live purely to enable them to establish a period of separation of 5 years when Western Australia was the only State in which that provision was the law. So, as I have said, this Bill is a nationalistic approach to a national problem. As such, in my submission, it should be accepted by the community. 
I conclude on a somewhat poignant note by giving the Senate the experience of a personal friend of mine who, unfortunately, at this moment is having to seek redress under the existing matrimonial law and whom I advised to write a full account of all the details of the matrimonial life for the benefit of his legal adviser. Only last Friday I was shown a copy of the document which runs to 43 pages. It concludes with these words: 
Writing this account of my life has given me no pleasure at all and it goes without saying that if I had my time all over again I would have gone about things very differently, lt is to be hoped that the new Family Law Bill will go a long way to eliminating this humiliating and degrading exercise and make settlements fairer and less traumatic. I hope that it also strengthens marriage. A marriage based on loyalty, faithfulness, stability, and security, without the need to always be looking over one 's shoulder, must really be bliss. One hopes that such marriages are possible. 
That was an unsolicited and spontaneous acceptance of the basic principles of the Bill by a person who is obviously in a traumatic state. If this Bill does not pass, one apprehends from what he writes that he will be subject to the indignities, the expense and all the other defects which a law, based essentially as it is on preserving the attitudes of ecclesiastical courts, has brought into our community. I would have supported the Bill in its original form. I even more enthusiastically support the Bill in the form in which I hope it will be when it leaves the Senate, namely, with the incorporation of most of the recommendations of the Senate Committee of which I was privileged to be a member. 
I conclude by paying a tribute, because I feel it ought to be paid, to the manner in which  Senator Missen, Senator Durack  and  Senator Chaney  combined with the 3 members of the Committee from the Government side to examine a matter of extreme social importance. I wish it to be recorded that at no stage during a very long series of deliberations were party political considerations intruded into the matter. I hope that, as far as that Committee is concerned, I will have the pleasure of working again on an important subject with persons who are as objective as were the 3 honourable senators opposite to whom I have referred. 

 -Mr President, I seek leave to move a motion for reference of the clauses of the National Compensation Bill 1974 to a Senate standing committee. 
-in reply- I join the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation  (Senator Wheeldon)  in thanking  Senator Drake-Brockman  for his co-operative attitude to this proposal. I believe that  Senator Drake-Brockman  uttered 2 fundamental truths. Firstly, he acknowledged the grave deficiencies in the present compensation system. I believe that was a fundamental and a true acknowledgment. If the present system has grave deficiencies, as the Government would assert and as  Senator Drake-Brockman  has acknowledged, it is the task of the Government and of the Parliament to substitute for such a gravely defective system a system which will not have those defects. It was with that thought in mind that the Government put forward this legislation. It was with that thought that I moved to refer the Bill to the appropriate committee. 
The second fundamental truth which I think  Senator Drake-Brockman  uttered was about the attitude of the insurance industry. As I recollect his words, he stated that there was a division in the ranks of the insurance industry in relation to this legislation. From discussions which I have had and from inquiries which I have made about this legislation, that is true. It will be the task of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs to probe this difference of opinion and to determine where the balance of judgment lies so far as the insurance industry is concerned. I do not think that  Senator DrakeBrockman  or the Senate need have any worries about the question of time. I do not doubt that the Committee will faithfully carry out the reference that is given it. If it needs more time beyond the end of next month, I do not imagine that it will hesitate to do what it did in relation to the Family Law Bill and seek an extension of time from the Senate. I repeat my thanks for the co-operation of the Opposition. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I preface it by referring the Minister to the statement he made during the sitting of Estimates Committee B on aid to African liberation movements. On that occasion he outlined possible uses of this aid and said that he had not yet decided on its distribution. Is the Minister yet in a position to inform the Senate of the proposed allocation of the sum of$ 150,000? 
-My question which is directed to the Postmaster-General results from statements made by  Mr Phillip  Lynch, the Opposition spokesman on Treasury matters, on the Australian Broadcasting Commission program Monday Conference' last Monday.  Mr Lynch  said that Government expenditure should be cut by 8 per cent. I ask the Minister: What effects would such a reduction have on the Australian Post Office in regard to employment, capital works and the provision of services to the public? 
-On behalf of  Senator James  McClelland I bring up the report of Estimates Committee A relating to the particulars of proposed expenditure for the year 1974-75, together with the Hansard report of the Committee's proceedings. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I direct a series of questions to the Attorney-General concerning the Australian Government's legal aid scheme. Has the Australian Government recently given special consideration to the question of the provision of legal aid in Tasmania? Has the Government been able to reach agreement with the Law Society of Tasmania with respect to the rationalisation of such services as are provided by the Australian Government and by the Law Society and, if so, what is the broad basis of such rationalisation? Does the Attorney-General agree that in the formative period of the Australian Legal Aid Office Tasmania provides a convenient area for the development of an ideal legal aid scheme and, if so, will he ensure that all practical steps are taken to produce this result? Will the sum of $3.7m provided this financial year on a national basis for payment to private practitioners through the Australian Legal Aid Office be made available as quickly as possible so that the public will obtain immediate benefit from the appropriation? 
I will speak briefly on this matter. I believe that I should not let go the revelation by  Senator Greenwood  tonight in raising this matter. Tents have always reminded me of circuses. It seemed to me, as I heard  Senator Greenwood  speaking, that he was rather resentful of the fact that the circus into which he has turned this chamber today was being rivalled by the tents across the road in front of Parliament House. He claims misrepresentation. He devoted some  20  minutes or so tonight to making the allegation that the Australian Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  was lacking in his public duty because he had not brought down the legal might of the Australian Government against the persons who are responsible for those couple of mini-tents that are across the road in front of Parliament House. 
The interjection of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition only confirms the impression that anyone listening to what he said tonight must have gained, and that is that even though he is a former Australian AttorneyGeneral he does not yet know that the wise administration of the law involves the exercise of a discretion by those charged by law to administer the laws that Parliament passes. What the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition has revealed tonight is that he is in favour of reactionary oppression under the guise of the enforcement of legal sanctions against the least privileged members of the community. I suggest that the worth of the contribution of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition can be gauged in this way: He is preoccupied in ensuring that, as I have said, the might of the Australian legal system is levelled against a few Aborigines. How does that assessment of the importance of the criminal law compare with the crime on an international basis that the Government of which he was a member condoned and to which it actively subscribed, namely, the involvement of Australians in Vietnam over a long period? That is the way in which his contribution tonight ought to be judged.  His  concern is with two or three or four Aboriginal persons who are responsible for the tents across the road in front of Parliament House. For years the person who makes that complaint subscribed, by his membership of the then 
Government and by his advocacy, to one of the greatest crimes in Australia's history. How does he stand on that? If I said at the beginning that he had made a circus of this chamber tonight, I suggest that the comparison I have made proves my point. 
-In view of certain remarks that were made by  Senator Greenwood  in the Senate just before it adjourned last night, I feel it is essential that the record be set straight. At least so far as I am concerned as a member of Estimates Committee A, what was said by  Senator Greenwood  last night is a misrepresentation of the true position. I refer to page 2360 of the Senate Hansard which records  Senator Greenwood  as having said: 
In the space of 2 years the Government is expending a sum in excess of $12m on the Australian Legal Aid Office, and I believe that the pattern of that expenditure is marked by waste, inefficiency and duplication. That is the view of Estimates Committee A. 
I want it to be known and wish it to be recorded that that certainly is not my view. 
Nor is it consistent with the report of the Committee to which  Senator Greenwood  referred this morning and which has to be underscored in this respect so that my point is clear. At page 6 of the report the Committee, and I understand that this section of the report was inspired and indeed penned- I am subject to correction on this - 
-Yes, and what it says is nothing like what  Senator Greenwood  claimed in the Senate last night that the Committee said. The report states: 
The Committee notes the increasing number of agencies dispersing legal aid and is concerned at the possible duplication, inefficiencies and waste that unco-ordinated development may produce. 
I suggest that that is a completely different view from that which  Senator Greenwood  claimed in the Senate last night was the unanimous view of Estimates Committee A. 
-Even if the Senate had sat all last night  Senator Greenwood's  ingenuity would not have been sufficient to extricate him from the effect of what he said before the adjournment. It is as plain as a pikestaff. Whatever  Senator Greenwood  may think, I want to say that he did not represent my view when he misquoted the effect of the Committee's report last night. 
On the substance of the matter under debate I want to say that, like  Senator Missen,  I played a part in the institution of a scheme in Tasmania at a time which now seems long ago. I was one of those in the profession who was willing to be on what was called the legal aid panel a long time ago and I remained on it I think it is true to say, and this has been acknowledged in many areas, that the Tasmanian legal aid scheme, due probably to the smallness of the State, has been one of the most effective in the western world. This was acknowledged as recently as some 1 1 days ago at a seminar in Hobert by  Mr Roy  Turner,  Chairman  of the Legal Aid Review Committee. The answers to the questions posed by  Senator Greenwood,  and to some degree supported by  Senator Missen  today, are to be found in an answer which the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  gave to a question I asked yesterday in the Senate. I asked what the situation was so far as the Australian Government and the Tasmanian Law Society were concerned with respect to a rationalisation of the 2 services which they conduct. 
The Attorney-General was able to state- and this is within only a few weeks of the conference in Canberra between the Australian AttorneyGeneral and representatives of law societies of all States- that complete agreement had been reached between the Law Society of Tasmania and the Australian Government with respect to the rationalisation of the services. The broad basis of that agreement was that the Australian Legal Aid Office now established in Tasmania, in Burnie and in Hobart and soon to be established in Launceston, would handle matters which arose under Federal law and also matters in which the Australian Government considered that it had a special responsibility, such as in relation to ex-servicemen, Aborigines and the like. If that agreement can be reached in Tasmania it can be reached between the Australian Government and any other State. It is a matter of goodwill and a desire to reach agreement. 
I wonder whether some States desire to reach agreement because when I read- I have seen no refutation of it and therefore regard it as correctthe recent article on the New South Wales scheme I can describe it only as a scandal that I hope would not be repeated anywhere. What do we find with respect to the New South Wales scheme? This legal aid scheme, the basic concept of which ought to be to help those who need it, is making a profit, a profit so great that the legal aid scheme has $2m invested. Fancy a legal aid scheme having money invested to that degree. 
Of that sum Sim is in short term deposits and the rest is in other investments. We find- this has not been refuted as yet- that a profit was made last year of over $lm. That is the State which, until last year at any rate- I am uncertain of the precise present position this year- would not give one cent under its scheme towards the resolution of those acute personal problems that arise in relation to matrimonial matters; not one cent. I wonder who is trying to kid whom in this situation? The Law Institutes or Law Societies of the mainland Australian States have the opportunity to follow the arrangement reached so far as Tasmania and the Australian Government are concerned. That rationalisation can be achieved. If it is not, I feel it is a safe assertion that the fault lies not with the Australian Government but with the Law Societies, some of those who run them and some of those with vested interests in them. 
The second point achieved so far as Tasmania and the Australian Government are concerned is that a figure has been agreed upon as the approximate proportion of the $1.3m by way of subvention to State legal assistance schemes that Tasmania will receive. The Law Society has said to the Australian Government, and acknowledged, that it is satisfied, that with the subvention it gets from the State Government plus its share of the $ 1.3m it can continue to run a highly efficient and satisfactory scheme within the rationalised areas of responsibility which have been agreed upon. If it can be done in Tasmania why can it not be done elsewhere? I take this opportunity to mention  Senator Missen  's criticism of the reduction in the sum of $2m which was granted from 1 July after the present Government came to office.  Senator Missen  complained of the reduction from $2m to $1.3m. I suggest, with respect, that he does not acknowledge in that criticism that for the first time there is an Australian Government subvention to the private profession, through the Australian Legal Aid Office, of $3.7m. 
I suggest that the definition of the terms was not the gravamen of  Senator Missen  's criticism in this respect.  His  complaint was that the $2m had been reduced to $1.3m. I suggest that that is not a valid criticism because so far as the totality of legal aid is concerned throughout the nation, the situation is infinitely better this financial year than it has been in the past. I found  Senator Greenwood  's strictures of the scheme, especially his reference to patronage and his other criticism that the scheme was calculated to undermine the private legal profession, strange indeed when it is remembered that year after year the previous Government refused requests through the Australian Law Council that it should even take an interest in the question of legal aid in this nation. 
I am not suggesting that they were made during  Senator Greenwood's  time as Attorney-General. They may have been. At the seminar in Hobart held 12 days ago a former  president  of the Law Council,  Mr J.  B. Piggott, strongly criticised the previous Federal Administration for not conceding to the Law Council's requests that it should involve itself to any degree in the provision of legal aid. The seminar was told that those requests were repeated many times during the period of office of the previous Government. How should any criticism from  Senator Greenwood  be interpreted in the light of the history of the Government of which he was a member? 
I believe that when the cameras of history are focused on the first 2 years of the present Labor Government, its attitude towards legal aid will stand out as one of the most compassionate achievements of its record. I believe that to be so. Whatever else the present Attorney-General may achieve, despite the Australian Senate, I believe that he will be able to look back- hopefully we will never turn the clock back- on the fact that this national Government recognised that if justice was to continue to have the connotation which it has had in the past it would have to go hand in hand with a liberal legal aid system. That was recognised in the Trade Practices Act. It is recognised in the amendments to the Family Law Bill that are before the Senate. I suggest to  Senator Greenwood,  with all the respect due to him because of his past office as AttorneyGeneral, that no criticism from him can obliterate the fact that the Government of which he was a member had no interest in the question of legal aid. Further, his criticisms are of no validity because this Government has shown that it cares. I concede that there has to be rationalisation but it should not be unilateral rationalisation; it has to be bilateral rationalisation. The professions in the various States, other than Tasmania where it has been accomplished already, as I have said, will have to get round the table and ensure that the best rationalisation is achieved. 
-No. I am perplexed about that. I was surprised- I speak with frankness in reply to the interjection- when the extract that the honourable senator read today was given because I cannot see how legislation would achieve anything in this respect. I have tried to consider the form that the legislation would take. We do not want legislation simply to confer a high-sounding title by way of a statutory office on the existing administration. What would it do? I do not know. I have tried to draft the Bill in my mind but I have no idea what form it would take. I think there is a danger that we have legislation in many areas where probably it is not needed. 
I do not know whether there is any particular significance in the honourable senator's interjection.  Senator Greenwood  also referred to a comment in the 'Sun'- I think he said it was yesterday- by  Mr Dawson,  the  president  of the Law Institute of Victoria, if I remember his title correctly. He said that the profession wanted a clearer idea. I suggest that if the profession is unclear about this, the way to get rid of any obscurity it has is to get round the table with the Australian Government's officers who are implementing this scheme. That achieved success so far as Tasmania is concerned. From there it is only a question of degree. Consider the Victorian position. If Victoria were to do what has been done in Tasmania and say: 'Yes, let the Australian Legal Office'- this is on a broad basis -'take over responsibility for matters arising under Federal Law- ' 
-Senator Missen says that he hopes it will not do that. I do not know why we compartmentise our law in the manner apparently suggested by the honourable senator. If the Office took over responsibility for matters arising under Federal law, also Family Law matters, or Matrimonial Causes Act matters, as the title now stands, and matters in relation to persons for whom the Australian Governmet concedes it has a special responsibility, and if Victoria got a fair share of the cake so far as the $1.3m is concerned, where would there be any continuing basis for obscurity? Some people, especially lawyers, can create obscurity where it does not properly exist. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Has the Australian Government recently raised with State Governments the question of discrimination by the exclusion of males from those eligible to be trained as school dental therapists or nurses? Have any of the State Governments responded to the Australian Government's representations? Specifically, is there any indication of the prospects of an alteration of the position in Tasmania so that males will be able to be trained as school dental therapists or nurses? 

 -Mr President, I have a supplementary question. I ask the PostmasterGeneral: How frequently does the Regional Employment Development ministerial committee meet? Is he satisfied that an adequate share of the total funds available is being allocated to projects in Tasmania? Has the Australian Government yet decided for how long, as a minimum, the scheme will be continued? 

 - Senator Greenwood seems to be concerned as to the forum that would be resorted to by people who would be minded to argue that an assault by a husband on a wife or vice versa was a matrimonial cause. I understand that to be his principal concern. 
-They simply take some good legal advice, look at clause 18 (2) of the Bill and go to the nearest court of summary jurisdiction. What is so amazing about that? They trundle up their argument. They are told to go their thousand miles home and that is it. If such a matter were a matrimonial cause it would be within the jurisdiction of a court of summary i ur.isdiction to determine under clause 18 (2) of the 
Bill. I do not understand the concern about this matter. But I want it to be clearly understood that in saying that I do not concede that a matter of the sort we have been discussing would be a matrimonial cause as defined in the Bill. 
I suggest to the Committee that it is axiomatic that the short title of a Bill should be reasonably related to its long title. The long title of this Bill is A Bill for an Act relating to Marriage and to Divorce and Matrimonial Causes and, in Relation thereto Parental Rights and the Custody and Guardianship of Infants, and certain other Matters'. In other words, the long title simply recites the 2 constitutional heads of power pursuant to which this legislation is placed before the Parliament. To alter the short title, as suggested by  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson, would be to distort the true purpose of the Bill. 
The second point I make- my contribution is directed strongly to supporting  Senator Missen  in his initial approach to this matter- is that the whole gravamen of this legislation relates to matrimonial causes as denned in clause 4 of the Bill. In other words, without a matrimonial cause as defined, there would be no Bill. Put another way, this Bill is about matrimonial causes. The definition of 'matrimonial cause' in clause 4 is extremely wide. It is divided into 5 parts, only half of the first part of which is related to dissolution of marriage. 
Clause 4 states: 
Matrimonial cause' means- 
proceedings between the parties to a marriage for a decree of- 
dissolution of marriage; or 
nullity of marriage; 
I will not read the whole of the definition, but ( b) relates to certain declarations; (c) relates to maintenance of parties and custody, guardianship and maintenance of children; (d) relates to proceedings between the parties for approval by the court of a maintenance agreement; (e) relates to orders or injunctions arising out of a matrimonial relationship; and  (0  relates to any other proceedings. So it is only a small part of the totality of what is embraced within the expression 'matrimonial cause' that relates to dissolution of marriage. 
To give this Bill the title 'Marriage Dissolution Act' would be to distort the purposes of the Bill and to ignore many of the purposes of the Bill. Not only would it be cynical, as  Senator Missen  has suggested, but also it would be illogical and a masterpiece of distortion in which I suggest this Parliament should not engage. 
What  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson has just done requires that I make submissions to the Committee different from those I would have made a moment or so ago. It is quite clear that the original amendment proposed would have been a purposeless one which would have introduced into the Bill a completely mutually inconsistent position. I do not know how the courts would have dealt with the situation of dissolving marriages, which they have power to do, when those marriages are denned by the Act giving them that power as being indissoluble. Despite the intimation from  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson I state that again in my own words to indicate that it was misconceived that this definition should be in this Bill at all. In saying that I do not wish to be understood as being in any way critical of those who hold the view that this is an appropriate definition of marriage. I respect those views, acknowledging that others hold different views. 
It seems to me that, even with the most recent amendment foreshadowed by  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson, it would create an ugly situation to put into a statute which deals not only with dissolution of marriage but also with many of the other consequences- custody, maintenance, etc.- a conditional definition, if I may use that expression. All it seeks to do is to put into the definition clauses of the Bill a definition which has acceptance outside the provisions of the Bill, and to try to make it look right by using the words subject to the provisions of this Act or any other Act'. We cannot have a definition of this type in a vacuum. It has to be for the purposes of the Act and once we qualify the ecclesiastical definition, if I may use that term, by the words 'subject to the provisions of this Act or any other Act' we destroy that definition. It has no meaning from a practical point of view in the context of this legislation. I would agree with others that the proper place for the expression of this viewpoint, if it was the Senate's will, would be in the Marriage Act or possibly in a later provision of this Bill which sets out some of the duties of the court. I suggest to those who adhere to the viewpoint expressed in the definition that it would not be inappropriate to endeavour to set this concept out in the matters which the court is required to take into account. They are dealt with in a subsequent proposed amendment. Ideally I would have thought that this concept, if acceptable to the Senate, ought to be in the Act which deals specifically, and to the exclusion of other matters, with marriages. For that reason I oppose even the latest amendment indicated by  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson. 
-I think it ought to be emphasised to the Senate, because this proposed amendment is of extreme importance, that its effect would be that except in very rare cases there could never be a proceeding under this proposed Act unless there were also proceedings for dissolution of marriage. That is the effect of the amendment. The limited exceptions are those which involve cases in relation to nullity of marriage, which are extremely rare, and cases in respect of proceedings for a declaration as to the validity of a marriage or the validity of the dissolution or annulment of a marriage by decree or otherwise. So it is clear that except in less than 1 per cent of cases there could never be a proceeding under this legislation unless there were also proceedings for dissolution of marriage. That, surely, is counter to the whole spirit of the legislation. 

 Senator Missen has given one illustration of the extent to which the provisions of the Bill would be stultified if this amendment were agreed to and he referred to clause 90. 1 do not elaborate on what he said. Another example is clause 57 in respect of declaration of interests in property. A third example, of course, is the ordinary- what I will call the State Maintenance Act, as at present- proceeding in respect of maintenance for children. The broad and bold concept of this legislation is that at the appropriate time all such proceedings would come under the jurisdiction of the Family Court or any variant of the Family Court as it is at present conceived.  Senator Greenwood's  amendment means that concept would be destroyed and that persons would be driven to institute proceedings for dissolution of marriage simply to be able to bring themselves within the ancillary- I will use that expression- provisions of the law. That would be, I suggest, a foolish thing for this Senate to do at the outset of its consideration in Committee of the provisions of this Bill, and I oppose it. 
I want to reply briefly to  Senator Greenwood  by suggesting that if his proposition were accepted the authority of the court would not be enhanced but would be weakened for the simple reason that the clause is expressed to authorise a direction to attend upon a marriage counsellor. I emphasise the words 'to attend'. It is clear that that simply involves a physical appearance. It does not involve any question of co-operation with the counsellor. The person concerned could simply say: 'All right, the judge has directed me to attend upon a marriage counsellor and if I do not do so I could be in contempt of court. I will go but nothing will make me open my mouth and nothing will make me alter my present attitude to the other party.' If the person concerned does that he is not in contempt of court but he might just as well stay outside the door if that is the attitude he is going to take. 
I seriously suggest to  Senator Greenwood  that the authority of the court would be weakened by the proposition he advances and that the court would be put in an untenable position. It could be proved later, in proceedings for contempt of court, that he was not in contempt of court if he went to the marriage counsellor's room, gave the marriage counsellor a piece of his mind and told him what he thought of the judge for having made an order against him under clause 90. That would not be contempt of court. Over centuries the law as to contempt of court has been developed along common sense lines. In 1974 we ought not introduce a Gilbertian note into the doctrine of contempt of court. 
It seems to me that the lawyers are getting themselves enmeshed in a web of legalism. I thought this Bill, despite its title which came in for some criticism earlier in the day, was directed to buttressing marriage and, in this particular aspect of it, to effecting reconciliations. The effect of  Senator Missen's  amendment is to construct a boxing ring in the middle of it. After all, the procedure that he contemplates, that there should be contempt of court proceedings, commences with a fairly strong blow to the kidneys in the making of an order or the granting of an injunction under clause 90. That is not the sort of thing that is accepted with equanimity by most persons. Then the court, as if to add a little salt to the wounds, decides to give a direction or a piece of advice to go before a marriage counsellor. To a lot of persons that would not be the most acceptable piece of advice or direction to receive after an order against one. Then to make it worse there is the threat at the end of it that if one does not go one will end up in those proceedings that are aimed at preserving the dignity of the court. 
Yes- I know. One must add to that boxing ring atmosphere the fact that the only obligation is on the person to attend, that is as I would see it, to present himself at the appropriate place at the appropriate time. He can open the door and say: 'Good morning, sir. I have been directed to attend you. Goodbye. ' The whole thing is becoming completely Gilbertian. Cannot the lawyers cut this web and leave the matter as the Attorney-General has agreed to it and get on with the business of passing this Bill? I think we are just going round in circles and getting nowhere. 
I move: 
In proposed Clause 14a delete sub-clause (1) and insert the following: 
1) a party to a marriage may file in the Family Court a notice stating that he or she intends to seek the assistance of the counselling facilities of the Family Court'. 
I simply wish to make these brief observations. Firstly, as the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  has said, the amendment is in accordance with the general view of the Standing Committee that the counselling services of the Family Court should be available at as early a stage as possible and- this is most important- without necessarily invoking the jurisdiction of the court in respect of any particular proceeding. I think the amendment therefore speaks for itself. It says that a party to a marriage may file in the Family Court a notice stating that he or she intends to seek the assistance of the counselling facilities of the Family Court. 
The second point I make is that the Committee considered that amendment was desirable in order to increase the constitutional strength of the power contained in the proposed new clause 14a- in other words, that the availability of the counselling facilities should be pursuant to a formal filing of a document invoking those facilities in the Family Court. Since the amendment will be accepted, I do not think it is necessary to labour the point any further. 
It seems to me that, in a mutual desire to help, a problem is being created which will be regretted in the future. I agreed, as a member of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs, to amendment No. 32 which appears on page 8 of the document titled 'List of Amendments proposed to be moved during the 
Committee stage', but I certainly did not do so on the basis of linking it with amendment No. 33. I want to make it quite plain that despite what has been said this afternoon, I will oppose amendment No. 33 which the Chair has permitted to be discussed together with amendment No. 32, and I presume that I am in order in continuing to do that,  Mr Chairman. 
I am referring to this new document titled 'List of Amendments proposed to be moved during the Committee stage' that I received only this morning. It consolidates all the amendments and consists of 37 pages. It is amendment No. 32, in an amended form, which is now being discussed. I see a situation in which it may be necessary to appoint an additional judge of the Family Court at fairly short notice. It seems to me that 6 judges- it is only one per State- would be a completely bare minimum, so far as the Family Court is concerned if it is to achieve the purposes that the Attorney-General has conceived for it. If the situation arises, as it must arise, I suggest, during the evolution of this Court, in which let us say, in the middle of December it is decided as a matter of administrative policy that there ought to be a second judge in New South Wales, this would mean, if amendment No. 32 is taken in conjunction with amendment No. 33, that it would be approximately April or May of the following year before an appointment could be made. That would be the practical situation. 
I have said that a decision is made, let us say, on 15 December. It would be 10 weeks before the Senate meets, and if it were 7 sitting days, that would be into the third week. At any rate, we are getting a period of 4 months or so. It would seem to me that it would be undesirable for Parliament to put such an administrative restriction on the implementation of this Bill, and I want to make it perfectly plain that I will oppose amendment No. 33. As regards the limitation to 6 judges in amendment No. 32, it is invidious for me, if the AttorneyGeneral concedes that that is sufficient, to argue against it, but I remind the Committee of what it is doing by this amendment. I suggest that it is putting the Government into a strait-jacket from which it can escape only by an amendment of this proposed new section at a subsequent time. 
-As far as  Senator Greenwood  's amendment is concerned, I am at a loss to understand what has happened compared with the situation which existed in the 1959 Matrimonial Causes Act. Reference has been made to the Act briefly before but I think that the section ought to be read in full. Section 127 of the existing Act states:  ( 1.) The Governor-General may make rules, not inconsistent with this Act, for or in relation to the practice and procedure of the courts having jurisdiction under this Act . . . 
I am not aware that any complaint was ever made over 15 years in relation to the rules under section 127. Indeed, without checking one imagines that  Senator Greenwood  when he was Attorney-General was the author, no doubt on advice, of documents signed by the GovernorGeneral which prescribes rules under the very power which he now says ought not to reside in the executive. 
-Yes. I am at a loss to understand what has happened since 1959 in relation to this matter. Secondly, in respect of leaving this to judges, I well remember the trouble that was caused by some judges, admittedly at Supreme Court level, in early 1973 when the Attorney-General had taken certain steps by regulations in relation to costs and other matters and a struggle emerged in one State as to whether certain proceedings were to take place in private chambers or in public chambers. The absurd position prevailed where some judges interpreted their powers as authorising proceedings in private chambers and some took the other view and held them in public chambers. That happened and this is a clear-cut provision whereby these matters have the force of regulation and where they are so germane to be actual legislation, as many of them are, what is wrong with following the precedent of the previous Liberal-Country Party Government and leaving this to the Executive. 
I agree with  Senator Missen  that this proposed amendment is an important one; indeed it is a fundamental one. But so that it can be fully understood it is necessary, I believe, to analyse what the Committee has already determined that the law should be, because of votes earlier this afternoon the Committee has established the Family Court of Australia. Clause 17b does that. Clause 1 7c provides certain criteria with respect to the appointment, removal and resignation of judges. Clause 17d deals with seniority. Clause 1 7h deals with the place of sitting. Clauses 1 7j to 17n deal with the general jurisdiction of the Court. So there is a group of clauses, of which the Committee has already approved, which establishes a self-contained superior court of record at Federal level. 
The scheme of the Bill, as expressed in some of its provisions, is that the Family Court will gradually absorb the jurisdiction of the State Supreme Courts and of courts of summary jurisdiction. Yet in the light of that there is the proposal from  Senator Missen  to set up alongside the Family Court- not in lieu of it- a number of State courts with, in effect, concurrent jurisdiction. I emphasise the word 'concurrent' because nowhere does  Senator Missen  's amendment seek to oust the jurisdiction of the Federal Family Court which this Committee has agreed ought to be established. So there would be the situation of a Federal court side by side with a State court. Indeed,  Senator Missen  suggests that the courts ought to be in the same building, both exercising the same jurisdiction. I submit that that, on examination, is futile, wasteful and confusing. Yet because of constitutional limitations and other limitations which flow from the very provisions of this Bill, the State Family Courts must be inferior, they must be second class compared with the Federal Family Court. It is no use  Senator Missen  shaking his head. Inevitably they must be. I give 5 examples simply to illustrate my point. In the first place, judges of State family courts could never be members of the Full Bench of the Federal Family Court. They would always be sitting singly. They would always be sitting in isolation. Secondly, their salaries and allowances would not necessarily be the same as those of judges of the Federal Family Court. 
It may be part of the arrangments but a moment's glance at the various differences in the structure of judicial salaries throughout Australia would prove, I suggest to  Senator Durack,  that if State family court judges, other than the chief judge and the senior judge, were put on the same basis as Federal Family Court judges it would throw the financial structure as far as salaries were concerned out of kilter in the States. One just could not do it because one would reach a situation in which a judge of a State family court in some cases would be getting more than a Supreme Court judge. That is the sort of thing that this proposal will engender. 
The third illustration that the State family courts would be second class can be seen in the fact that under  Senator Missen  's proposal there would be 2 concurrent streams of appellate jurisdiction from courts of summary jurisdiction. In other words, one could go either way; one could go to the State court or one could go to the Federal court which would sit, as  Senator Missen  would say, in the same building. A fourth point is that judges of State family courts could not, because of constitutional limitations, exercise the jurisdiction which would be conferred on the Federal Family Court under proposed sections 17m(1), 17m(2), 17ma and 17n because those proposed sections deal with a jurisdiction which flows from the Marriage Act and that could not, except by the leave of this Parliament, be conferred on State courts. 

 - Senator Missen says that it would happen but he does not have the faintest idea, I suggest, of what would happen as far as the negotiations are concerned. Some States would be co-operative. Other States clearly, in view of their history, would not be co-operative. Let us face the facts of political life. Fifthly, I suggest that it is not likely that legal aid would be available in State family courts, as it is under this Bill. It could be said that that could be made the subject of arrangement. Why intrude into the system that is being created by this legislation the additional side by side concurrent jurisdiction of inferior second class courts, because that is what we are doing by this amendment? 
I would advance the following political and practical arguments against the amendment: Firstly, there will inevitably be considerable delay. The history of State GovernmentAustralian Government negotiations on important matters is not such as to encourage a belief that the negotiations could be carried out speedily. The proposals would require State legislation which may or may not be passed. In the end what will happen? The 6 Family Court judgesthat is what we are limited to at the moment; there is no licence for any more by virtue by the vote of the Committee- will try to get this enlightened legislation off the ground. I suggest that this amendment is destroying this legislation. Secondly, most States have shown very little interest in family law matters. It was not until this year that even a limited right of legal aid appeared in the most populous State in Australia, New South Wales. Thirdly, I would submit that the Family Court needs single direction. It needs a unified concept of helping out. It needs to develop team work between judges and ancillary staff, including counsellors and welfare officers. Under  Senator Missen  's proposal State judges would not be answerable to the chief judge of the Family Court, nor would they form part of the directorate. There could not be a coherent approach to practice matters or to administrative problems because there would be separate courts. The height of absurdity is reached, I suggest, when I point out that  Senator Missen  's amendment would mean that matters resulting from the breakdown of one marriage could be split between 2 sets of courts. 
-Only to the extent that the philosophy of the Bill is that certain courts should not deal with all matrimonial causes as they are defined. I suggest that courts of summary jurisdiction cannot deal with matters of principal relief and they cannot deal with certain other matters in relation to property above $ 1 ,000 without consent. I suggest that there is no point in  Senator Baume  's interjection.  Senator Missen  's amendment means that in relation to matters arising out of the same breakdown one can have a ball. One can invoke the same jurisdiction through 2 separate courts. One can have custody dealt with in one court and property matters in another. That is the effect of it. As a national Parliament we ought not to be encouraging that sort of nonsense. Fourthly I would suggest that it is invidious that judges should need to be concurrently approved and appointed by State and Federal governments, many of which will often be of different political philosophies.  Senator Missen  's amendment forces a situation in which a State government would have to propose a particular judge and the Australian Government might say, for various reasons or for no reasons at all: 'No, we will not appoint him '. This is an ugly situation. I do not know whether it was in relation to this point that  Senator Greenwood  interjected- my attention was diverted at the time. To say that it is without precedent does not damn it. It is damned by its own terms. It is an untenable situation. 
I say that a State family court would be a second class court also for the reason that the best judges would not be attracted to State family courts. They would naturally seek Federal Family Court appointments.  Senator Chaney  shakes his head, but it is in the nature of human beings to do this. They will do it, and the State court will be a second class court. There is no doubt about it. What will happen to the poor public in whose alleged interest this legislation is being passed? How confused they will be. They will go to their legal advisers and, perhaps in a form of words which will become fairly garbled as the years pass, they will be asked: 'Do you wish to go to the Federal court or will you go to the State court?' It is a bit like going to a public hospital or a private hospital. The public will not have a clue what the advantages or the disadvantages are. 
I would think I put the words in their appropriate order when I gave the example. Undoubtedly the public would come to regard the situation which would be created under this beneficial legislation as one in which there were 2 sets of justice- one Federal and superior and one State and inferior or second class.  Senator Missen  's amendment would involve also the proposition that we would get general unanimity among 7 Attorneys-General. I know that all seven do not need to be signatories to the same agreement. Of course they do not. But generally one would want that situation. A moment's glance at the endeavours during recent years to reach unanimity amongst 7 AttorneysGeneral would indicate that that proposition is not tenable. 
I submit to the Senate for all those reasons, which 1 expressed as quickly as I could, that this amendment is unnecessary, lt is calculated to establish a second class system of State courts. It undoubtedly will lead to disputes between the State governments and the Australian Government as to the terms of the proposed agreement. To argue that it is made necessary by the fact that geriatric judges will be appointed or that judges will be appointed who will become geriatric I suggest is like taking a sledge-hammer to crack a nut. 
The solution comes not from me but from  Senator Greenwood,  as recorded at page 2685 of Hansard when last Thursday night he, speaking with all the authority of his position as  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, said that he would support an amendment to the Constitution. 
-No. I would say it would be passed with a sweeping majority, as the referendum relating to Aborigines was passed, with a majority of 95 per cent. The situation is untenable. I do not for a moment imagine that the Attorney-General will appoint judges geriatric ab initio, if there is such a breed of animals. So there would be a few years in which they could pursue the transition from their present state to one of being geriatric. If in that time we could not achieve an amendment to the Constitution then both parties ought to resign. I strongly oppose this amendment, which 1 would not be so churlish as to suggest was dictated or motivated by any thought of centralism, State rights or anything like that. I think that it was purely conceived, but it is being mutilated in the course of its gestation and it will produce not a robust child but a very second rate child, in the shape of State family courts that will be only a shadow of the national court which the Senate has already agreed should be established. 
I direct a question to the Attorney-General relating to a national law for so-called pornographic material. I preface my question by referring to the conferences organised in 1973, on the initiative of the Australian Government, between representatives of the Australian Government and of the State governments and which were aimed at producing a uniform legal approach throughout Australia to questions relating to so-called pornographic material. Following the last conference, which I think was in November 1973, has any progress been made towards a national adoption of the Australian Labor Party policy in respect of pornographic material? As far as the State of Queensland is specifically concerned, is there any prospect that it will soon be relieved of the repressive legislation under which it suffers in this context? 
-I am prompted to speak very briefly in this debate because earlier today  Senator Baume  referred to some questions which as a member of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs I had asked during the course of the Committee's investigation of this matter. I believe that he also referred to paragraph 59 ofthe report of the Committee, the first sentence of which reads: 
The Committee gave deep consideration to the question of whether or not an alternative mode of proof of irretrievable breakdown should be included in Clause 26 to cover cases in which, for example, a wife is subject to intolerable conduct, but because of practical considerations is unable to establish an actual state of separation. 
My recollection is that the Standing Committee began its consideration of this matter, which it said in its report became deep consideration, because one of the members of the Committee suggested that there could be a small percentage of cases in which, because of practical considerations, it was impossible for, let us say, a wife or it may be a husband to prove ultimately to a court that a state of actual separation in the legal sense had occurred. It was at first thought, I think by all members of the Committee, that in those circumstances it might be desirable to include an alternative mode of proof of irretrievable breakdown. But the more the Committee considered this matter the more convinced it became that clause 90 of the Bill took care of the particular circumstances which at first had given rise to this situation. The terms of clause 90 are wide and will be even wider under the terms of an amendment to be proposed by the Attorney-General. Bearing in mind the fact that the situation which had given rise to the Committee's consideration would have to come within the clear words of clause 90 in respect of either an order or an injunction, the Committee, as its report says, ultimately came to the conclusion that it was not necessary to include any alternative mode of proof of irretrievable breakdown. 1 make that explanation in view of the fact that  Senator Baume,  as I have said, referred to questions I asked during the Committee's investigations. I hope that explains to him why paragraph 59 of the Committee's report is couched in the terms in which it is. 
Having addressed my mind to that matter I feel that as a member of the Committee I should briefly state the reasons why I came to the view that 12 months was an appropriate period. The fact is that the Committee of the Whole by its vote last night adopted the legislative principle that dissolution of marriage should be only on proof of irretrievable breakdown. The matter that the Committee is now debating is simply the period which is appropriate. It would be idle to suggest that this is not a matter on which there can be room for honest differences of opinion between individuals. But this Committee has the responsibility of determining in the public interest- I emphasise the words 'in the public interest'- and not on the basis of any sectional view one way or the other what is an appropriate period, bearing in mind the fact that obviously it has to be an arbitrary period. 
I think some of the earlier speakers may have overlooked the fact that if the proposals of the Attorney-General are agreed to by the Committee and the Senate the law will not be a virtual automatic divorce at the end of 12 months, because a period of at least 12 months must elapse before any application for dissolution can bc filed. It by no means follows that within a very short time after than there will necessarily be a dissolution. The bars to that happening are several. Firstly, sub-clause (3) of clause 26 provides that the court shall not make a decree if it is satisfied that there is a reasonable likelihood of cohabitation being resumed. The court is forbidden to make a decree if the evidence before it satisfies it that there is a reasonable likelihoodnot by any means a certainty or a probability- of cohabitation being resumed. One would expect that, bearing in mind the duties of the court as they are set out in new clause 21 A, the court would err on the side of safety in exercising that jurisdiction. That is the first point I make. 
-The petition will not be a joint one; the petition will be by one party. It may well be that the other party asserts facts that satisfy the court that there is a reasonable likelihood of cohabitation being resumed. Maybe it is unlikely, but the matter is for the court. It will not make this decision in vacuo. It will make it on the material placed before it. 
The second point is that under a subsequent clause of the Bill- clause 42- it is provided that a decree nisi cannot become absolute unless the court is satisfied in relation to the children in the terms of clause 42. Further- this is the result of the recommendation of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs -if the court is in doubt as to whether proper arrangments have been made in relation to the children, it may adjourn the proceedings until a report regarding those arrangements has been obtained from a welfare officer. Then, of course, there is the question of the normal delays in the hearing of these matters. 
The main point which influenced me was that as a member ofthe Senate Standing Committee I conceived it my duty to inquire from as many persons as possible who had had experience with the practical aspect of this matter- namely, members of the legal profession, members of marriage guidance counselling organisations and members of the church- how many cases there had been within their experience, expressed on a percentage basis, in which there had been separation in the true legal sense for more than 12 months and in which reconciliation had occurred. The answer accords very much with what  Senator Missen  attributed to a Victorian church leader earlier today. The answer is that they are very rare indeed. If the true criterion, as I submit it is, is what in the public interest is the appropriate period, bearing in mind that it must be arbitrary, one has to set alongside the potential interest of a rare number of cases the much more numerous number of cases in which there is no hope of reconciliation. That has been proved over many years by persons experienced in all fields who come into contact with these situations. 
Perhaps I should have added when I was speaking earlier that it by no means follows that simply because an application for dissolution under this legislation is filed there will be a decree because, as has been recognised by all members of the Committee, this Bill contains realistic provisions aimed at effecting reconciliations in appropriate cases. So it could well be that after a 12 months period has elapsed and an application for dissolution is filed, the counselling procedures of the Family Court would ensure that a reconciliation did take place, and if it did take place in some cases that would be all to the good. I simply wish to say that, in determining in my own mind what from the public interest point of view was the appropriate period, I weighed the interests of the rare number of cases- I think that that is not an exaggeration- in which there was after a 12 months period a subsequent reconciliation with the overwhelming majority of cases in which there was not a subsequent reconciliation. For obvious reasons, looking at it numerically, the public interest lies with the latter group. 1 ask myself the question: What would be the disadvantages to that overwhelmingly predominating group if the period were extended beyond 12 months? It would seem to me that in some cases there would be further opportunity for recriminations and for difficulties to arise, especially in relation to children; that the general moral public interest would not be enhanced by a longer period of the parties being legally married but being de facto not married; and that when one looked at the balance of public interest and public convenience then, admittedly in an arbitrary situation, a period of 12 months was an appropriate period. No one could really say that the period was too short, and I do not think that anyone could say realistically that the period was too long. It would be the appropriate period for this Committee to determine in relation to a matter which the Committee has already decided, namely, irretrievable breakdown. 
I move: 
Insert at the end of sub-clause ( 1 ) the following: or which, irrespective of intention, is likely to defeat any such order'. 
I also move: 
In sub-clause ( I ) delete the words 'if it' and substitute the word 'which'. 
Sub-clause 64 ( 1 ) as amended would read: 
In proceedings under this Part, the court may set aside or restrain the making of an instrument or disposition by or on behalf or. or by direction or in the interest of, a party, which is made or proposed to be made to defeat an existing or anticipated order in those proceedings for costs, maintenance or the declaration or alteration of any interests in property or which, irrespective of intention, is likely to defeat any such order. 
Clause 64 as printed is in terms similar to Section 120 of the existing Act and the general purpose of it is to give the court power to set aside instruments or dispositions which are made with the intention of defeating orders or claims pursuant to the statute. 
The courts have interpreted that section in the existing Act as necessarily involving an intention on the part of the person making the instrument or disposition to produce that effect. There are a number of decisions on those lines. So the section at the moment is ineffective unless an intention to defeat claims can be proved and that is often extremely difficult. The Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs considered that the words which I seek to add at the end of subclause ( 1 ) were desirable; in other words, that irrespective of intention, if the making of the instrument or disposition had the effect of defeating claims then it was liable to be set aside by the court. I simply add that since the power is discretionary the court would always have the power to protect bona fide purchasers for value. 
I move: 
Leave out the clause, insert the following clauses: 65 ( I ) A subsisting maintenance agreement other than an agreement to which section 65a applies may be registered, as prescribed, in any court having jurisdiction under this Act. 
Where a maintenance agreement is so registered in a court, the court may, in relation to the agreement, exercise any of the powers conferred on the court under section 62 as if the agreement were an order of the court. 
The court in which a subsisting maintenance agreement is registered under sub-section ( I ) may set aside the agreement if. and only if. the court is satisfied that the concurrence of a party was obtained by fraud or undue influence or that the parties desire the agreement to be set aside. 
Subject to section 66, this section does not apply to overseas maintenance agreements. 65a ( I ) Subject to this section, a maintenance agreement may make provision to the effect that the agreement shall opcrate, in relation to the financial matters dealt with in the agreement, in substitution for any rights ofthe parties to the agreement under this Part. 
A maintenance agreement that makes provision as mentioned in sub-section ( I ) does not have an effect unless it has been approved by the court. (3)ir- 
a maintenance agreement makes provision as mentioned in sub-section ( 1 ); and 
the agreement has been approved by the court and the approval has not been revoked, any order having effect under this Part or any order made under Part VIII ofthe repealed Act and continued in effect by virtue of paragraph 3 (2 ) (c) ceases to have effect in so far as it relates to the financial matters dealt with in the agreement and, subject to sub-section (9), no court having jurisdiction under this Act may make an order with respect to those financial matters. 
In proceedings for the approval of a maintenance agreement, if the court is satisfied that the provisions of the agreement with respect to financial matters are proper, the court shall approve the agreement, but, if the court is not so satisfied, it shall refuse to approve the agreement. 
A maintenance agreement that has been approved by a court ceases to bc in force upon the death of a party to the agreement unless the agreement otherwise provides. 
A court may revoke its approval of a subsisting maintenance agreement if. and only if, it is satisfied "that the approval of the court was obtained by fraud, that the concurrence of a party was obtained by fraud or undue influence or that the parties to the agreement desire the revocation of the approval and, where an approval is so revoked, the agreement ceases to be in force. 
Where a court has approved a maintenance agreement, the agreement shall bc deemed to bc registered in that court. 
An agreement that is by virtue of sub-section (7) deemed to bc registered in a court may be registered, as prescribed, in another court having jurisdiction under this Act. 
Where the court is satisfied that the arrangements in a subsisting maintenance agreement that has been approved by the court relating to a child ofthe marriage who has not attained the agc of 18 years are no longer proper, it may make an order under this Pan. 
Nothing in this Act affects the operation of an agree-  ment sanctioned under paragraph 87 ( 1 ) (k) ofthe repealed Act or the rights and obligations of a person under such an agreement. 
Subject to section 66, this section does not apply to overseas maintenance agreements. 65b A subsisting maintenance agreement that has been registered, or is deemed to have been registered, in a court may be enforced as if it were an order of that court. '. 
In explanation 1 point out that as printed the Bill provides that a maintenance agreement as defined in clause 4 is not enforceable unless it has been approved by the court. That is in clause 65 ( 1 ) as printed. I invite the Committee's attention to paragraph 76 of the Standing Committee's report in which it expressed the view that there was some conflict in clause 65(1) as printed and the expressed purpose given in the explanatory memorandum to the Bill. That led to further discussion as a result of which it was thought desirable to split clause 65 as printed into 2 sections which now appear in the amendments as clause 65 and clause 65a. Those 2 amendments provide for 2 alternative approaches. In the first place, proposed new clause 65 provides for the registration of subsisting maintenance agreements; 'subsisting' means an agreement which still remains in force. As I have said the proposed new clause provides for registration of maintenance agreements and where they have been registered the court can exercise the powers of variation which are conferred on it by clause 62. 
I invite attention to proposed new clause 65 (3) whereby the court in which a subsisting maintenance agreement is registered may set aside that agreement only if it is satisfied that the concurrence of a party was obtained by fraud or undue influence or that the parties desire the agreement to be set aside. That is the first section of the agreement dealt with by the amendment. Proposed new clause 65a contains the second alternative approach to the question of maintenance agreements and it provides that an agreement can operate in substitution for any rights under the Act provided it is approved by the court. As such the principle is very similar to that which is contained in section 87 (1) (k) of the existing Act. 1 invite the attention of the Committee to the safeguards which are contained in proposed new sub-clauses 4 and 6. 
-Yes. Proposed new subclause 4 provides that the court shall refuse to approve an agreement unless it is satisfied that the financial matters with which it deals are proper. 
Sub-clause 6 relates to revocation of a court's approval in cases of fraud or undue influence. It seems to the members of the Standing Committeeand 1 think I am speaking on their behalf in relation to this latest proposed amendment- that these new proposed amendments provide a more systematic approach to the question of maintenance agreements. There would really be a 3-tier scheme because the amendments do not interfere with the recognition at common law of an agreement provided it is not contrary to public policy by attempting to oust the jurisdiction of the court. It then provides for a second tier of registered agreements. Thirdly, it provides for an agreement to be approved in proposed new clause 65a very-much in the same manner as an agreement is now sanctioned under section 87 ( 1 ) (k) of the Matrimonial Causes Act. 
-I believe that few measures which have come before this Parliament in recent years have been the subject of such public misrepresentation and false comment as has the Broadcasting and Television Bill (No. 2). Significantly, most of that has come from certain vested interests. Perhaps that misrepresentation reached its height in an article in the Melbourne 'Age' on 16 October of this year, the heading of which was: 'Juggernaut to decide TV Wrongs and Reichs'. That has been the theme of a lot of the Press and general media treatment of this legislation. I believe that it has affected the Opposition's attitude to a Bill which I suggest- and I will endeavour to show by examining the existing provisions of the present law- only has essentially a clarifying role from a legal point of view. 
As the Minister explained in his second reading speech, it has 2 basic purposes, the first of which is to give the new authority the legal power to perform a function which this Parliament- with the 1946-49 Government, through 23 years of Liberal-Country Party rule and now through this Government- has always believed was a proper function of the broadcasting and television control authority irrespective of its name. That function is expressed, as  Senator Guilfoyle  has said- and I will examine it in detail later- in existing section 16(l)(c). The second purpose of the Bill- I do not suggest this is by any means the really important purpose of the Bill- is to alter the period for which licences may be renewed. We are at issue only to the extent of 6 months on that and I will come to that point later. Despite its comparatively simple objects I do not believe that the importance of this Bill should be overlooked. It applies to radio. We are now 5 1 years from the time the first radio station was opened in Australia- in New South Wales in November 1923. It applies to television. We have now had some 16 years of television in this nation. In that time, television has developed in this country as indeed it has in all other parts of the world, into the most effective, the most important and in some respects the most devastating medium of mass communication that the world has ever known. That being so, I suggest that it behoves this Parliament to ensure that the public interest is properly served by the type and extent of control that is exercised over that medium in the public interest. 
The second reason I suggest this legislation is important and that the whole review of the control of radio and television is important is that there has been no diminution, as I understand it, from the trend that was apparent 20 years ago, prior to the introduction of television, to combine in the one hand the ownership and control of Press, radio and television media. The fact is that throughout this nation there is a tight tripartite control over the media often by one man or by one company. That point was adverted to very forcibly by the then Leader of the Australian Labor Party,  Dr Evatt,  in 1956 when a significant amendment to the existing legislation was introduced and was debated. He sought, by an amendment, to direct attention to this matter and he used these words: 
The fact that all existing television licences in 2 States have been granted by the Government to corporations constituting, in effect, combines of newspaper, radio broadcasting and associated interests which already monopolise to a large extent mass communication of information to the people of Australia . . . 

 Dr Evatt directed attention in his motion to the danger to the public interest and true freedom of expression being caused by newspaper concerns further extending their control over mass communication, including radio broadcasting and television. I suggest that the words that he used and which were embraced within his motion nearly 20 years ago are just as true today as they were then. It is a fact, I suggest, that this Senate ought to bear in mind when it is considering the totality of the control which it is appropriate to exercise over these 2 particular media. It may well be that the provisions of the Trade Practices Act relating to monopolisation, which came into force on 1 October of this year, ought to be very seriously considered in relation to those combines of which  Dr Evatt  spoke and which, as I have said, are still a cause of real concern today. The tendency for particular proprietors to extend their sphere of influence- I am not referring in any way to profit now but to their sphere of influence- over all 3 media is a tendency which, I believe, is growing but which certainly has not been abated and which, I suggest, is of real concern to the people of this nation. 
The Opposition's attitude to this Bill, as expressed in another place and as expressed in this place today by  Senator Guilfoyle,  is to me difficult to understand when the history of this legislation, going back over more than a quarter of a century, is considered. It seems to me that the Opposition has 2 standards in relation to this matter and that its attitude expresses 2 standards. It has one standard when in Opposition and another standard when it is in Government. I think that is proved by the fact that in 1948 when the Broadcasting Control Board was established by amending legislation in that year, the cry of nationalisation was raised by the then Liberal-Country Party Opposition. That word was specifically used in the debates. In the 1956 Bill, however, a different attitude was expressed because the present Opposition was then in government. The need for control was very clearly recognised by the Postmaster-General of that day. I think that his speech is worth quoting from for the purpose of showing that that is so. In dealing with the 1956 Bill, he said: 
Clause 40 also prescribed in Division 4 of Part III, the conditions to be observed by the licensees of commercial stationsboth television and broadcasting- in relation to their programs. I invite the attention of the House especially to the latter provisions because ever since there has been talk of the introduction of television into Australia, genuine fear has been expressed by large sections of the community that the introduction of television would have unfortunate effects on some sections of the population, particularly on children. 
The Royal Commission on Television considered that selfregulation would not be sufficient to secure that commercial television programs would be of suitable standards to satisfy the public. 
I pause there to say that the Opposition has obviously changed its mind. The Postmaster-General in 1956 continued: 
The Commission recommended a reserve of authority to ensure 'that commercial programs will, in the broadest sense, serve the public interest'. With those considerations in mind, the Government proposes, . . . that a licensee should bc required to provide programs which comply with standards determined by the Board and to vary his programs,  if so  directed by the Board, so that they shall conform with those standards . . . it is essential to ensure that television programs are of a proper standard. I do not want to leave any possibility of misunderstanding here. The responsibility for ensuring that television programs are of a proper standard is being imposed on the Australian Broadcasting Control Board, which recently was strengthened with this objective in mind. The Government expects the Board to discharge its duties in this field fearlessly. 1 wish to make it clear that the Government will stand behind the Board in its administration and will not tolerate any abuse of the new medium by licensees or advertisers or anyone else. This is a matter of vital importance which I know has caused considerable public concern. I give an unqualified assurance that every effort will bc made to ensure not only that television will not cause any harm to the people of Australia but that it will as far as practicable be a positive benefit. 
Those words have been rejected today by the Liberal-Country Party Opposition. Yet they were the words of those parties in 1956. I ask why it is that the Opposition has changed its attitude from that expressed in the extract from the speech that I have just read. Following that line, the curious thing is that for more than a quarter of a century one of the prime functions of the Board as expressed in section 16(1) (c) of the present Act has been, and the words are important, 'to ensure that adequate and comprehensive programs are provided to serve the best interests of the general public'. The emphasis has been placed on 'the best interests of the general public'. The words to qualify the noun 'programs' are extremely wide- 'adequate and comprehensive'- and although in 1948 the then Liberal-Country Party Opposition opposed the establishment of the Board that was set up by the legislation of that year, in 23 years of government it did nothing whatsoever to alter the power that was given by the 1948 Act. During that period of 23 years it introduced 21 amendments to the legislation, and one can search the record of debates in relation to those 2 1 Bills and one will not find, I suggest, any assertion that the powers conferred by the 1948 legislation had been abused or were not necessary. So 1 feel 1 am justified in saying that the Opposition has double standards, one when it is in opposition and one when it is in government. 
I would suggest in a broad approach to this legislation that the Opposition's attitude is based on a misconception. It is interesting to note that when the Opposition's attitude to this legislation was being stated in another place the gravamen of the attack on it was that the powers that were given by section 16, as it would read if these amendments were agreed to, were not subject to parliamentary scrutiny. That was the beginning of the attack by the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen).  It was repeated more than once in the course of his speech. Now when the Government yields on that matter and proposes, as the Minister for the Media has said will be done, that in committee, if this Bill reaches the committee stage, to insert a provision that the basic regulatory powers of the authority be subject to scrutiny by Parliament in the same manner as regulations are, the Opposition virtually dismisses that by a reference of a few words and ignores it. It seeks to put its opposition on a much broader basis and in doing so I suggest that it is succumbing to the hysterical outbursts of some vested interests a few months ago who thought they saw in this legislation a means for the Government, not for the Authority, to exercise improper control over, in particular, the television medium. 
Are we by this legislation doing anything more than other countries have found to be desirable? I suggest not and one only has to look at the position in England and in Canada to see that the powers given by this legislation, which are really powers to clarify legal doubts that have arisen, are in no way different from what is considered proper elsewhere. I refer to the English Act which imposes a duty on the authority in Great Britain in these terms:   . . to ensure that the programs broadcast by the authority in each area maintain a high general standard in all respects and, in particular, in respect of their content and quality and a proper balance and wide range in their subject matter, having regard both to the programs as a whole and also to the days of the week on which and the times of the week at which the programs are broadcast. 
Without going into the detail of the situation in Canada, I simply quote one section from the Canadian Broadcasting Act 1968 which states: 
The programming provided by the Canadian broadcasting system should be varied and comprehensive and should provide reasonable balanced opportunity for the expression of different views on matters of public concern and the programming provided by each broadcaster should be of high standard using predominantly Canadian creative and other resources. 
I ask the Opposition: In what way does section 1 6, as it would be amended if these amendments were agreed to, go beyond powers which in those  2  countries at least have been considered appropriate? ls the Opposition's attitude consistent, having regard to the existing provisions of the Act?  Senator Guilfoyle  referred to section 1 7 of the Act which gives the Board power in these terms: In exercising its powers and functions under the Act to make such orders, give such directions and do all such things as it thinks fit. That has been the position since 1948. It is true, as I understand it, that section 17 has seldom been used but it does seem to me that if the Opposition succeeds in defeating the second reading of this Bill it will be necessary for the Board, as it would remain, to consider exercising those powers. I also ask the Opposition: Why does it ignore section 99 of the present Act which states: 
A licensee shall provide programmes and shall supervise the broadcasting or televising of programmes from his station in such manner as to ensure, as far as practicable, that the programmes are in accordance with standards determined by the Board. 
Of course, it is pursuant to that power that certain standards have been laid down. I regret to have to say this, but the Opposition does not appear to me to be sincere in its attitude in relation to this measure because when it was in government in 1972 it was advised that there were legal difficulties and doubts in relation to the exercise of its functions. There can be no doubt that it was given such advice, and as a result of that advice  Senator Cotton,  in the Ministerial office that he then occupied, made public statements to the effect that the then Governmentthat is, in 1972- would rectify that position. He made 2 such statements, the first on 8 December 197 1 in answer to a question by  Senator Douglas  McClelland. Following difficulties with one station, he made a second statement on 7 April 1972 that the then government would introduce legislation to overcome the legal difficulties that had arisen. He made a similar statement on 28 April 1972.  Senator Douglas  McClelland directed a question on 16 May 1972 in this Senate to the Minister representing the Postmaster-General and the same answer was given. I quote from  Senator Greenwood  's reply: 
My colleague,  Senator Cotton,  when Acting PostmasterGeneral, indicated that it was the Government's intention to bring down legislation to clarify the law. 
If- I say 'if; I should perhaps say 'since'- the Government by a number of clear pronouncements in late 1971 and early 1972 stated its intention to legislate to obviate the legal difficulties that had arisen, is the Opposition now suggesting that it would have done so in a way which fell short of the method that is provided for in this Bill especially if one adds to it in accordance with the Minister's undertaking the inclusion of a provision that determinations of the Authority in a very wide area would be subject to parliamentary scrutiny as are regulations. I question therefore the sincerity of the Opposition because- I think this is absolutely vital to judging its attitude- for over a quarter of a century the Board has had power and it has had the statutory function of ensuring that adequate and comprehensive programs are provided to serve the best interests of the general public. It has had power to make orders to give effect to those powers and functions and, under section 99, it has had a direct control over standards. If you add all those together where is the room for the public criticism that this was going to become controlled by a juggernaut- I earlier referred to the newspaper headline in which that description was used- and where is the room for the Opposition 's criticism which enabled  Senator Guilfoyle  when she spoke earlier today to use such emotive expressions as 'an outrage' so far as the public and the mass media were concerned? Another of her expressions was 'total control, unlimited and undefined'. A third expression was infringement of freedom of the Press'. A fourth expression was 'intrusion into every function of radio and television media'. I suggest that the Opposition cannot be judged to be genuine in its decision to oppose the second reading of this Bill because when in Opposition before 1949 and while in government for 23 years and now, it is faced with a situation in which whatever protestations it made against the so-called nationalisation- I have referred to the speech of the Postmaster-General in 1956- it has accepted a situation in which there ought to be pretty strict control over such an important medium as television. The Opposition's attitude as expressed by  Senator Guilfoyle  this afternoon just does not bear up to any logical scrutiny. 

 Senator Guilfoyle also dismissed, I thought somewhat ungraciously, the attitude of the Australian Children's Television Action Committee. I will quote from one of its publications of which most honourable members will be aware. In the issue of October 1974 it pointed out something that I believe it is appropriate should be borne in mind specifically when it is realised that the Opposition is about to kill this Bill. It said: 
Society has recognised that its most precious resource is its children and that it has a responsibility for undertaking a positive program of environment directed to meet the particular needs and interests of children. It is hardly necessary for us to point out that in the case of television this has not happened. The Broadcasting Control Board has excellent standards, but because it has no power to enforce them they are tragically largely ignored. There is more than sufficient evidence to show that television plays a large part in the lives and development of Australian children, that the entertainment programs provided now and any time during the 18 years of Australian television have not, except in rare and isolated cases, been of a quality to advantageously influence children's development in any area. Children are not only continually exploited by seductive and misleading advertising, but are bombarded with a massive amount of violence which increasing amounts of research show to be detrimental to a child 's mental health. 
One would ask the Opposition: Does it dispute that general proposition? If not, why is it not more anxious to ensure that the principle which it recognised for 23 years in government is given practical effect by the amendments which are sought in this Bill before the Senate? I have said that the essential purpose of this Bill is to clothe the Authority with a power commensurate with its functions. I have referred to section 17 of the existing Act. Why is the Opposition not prepared to have the Authority given the broad general power which is contained in paragraph (a) of clause 6 of the Bill before the Senate? That clause was criticised in another place and it is worth reading to see what validity the criticism has. It says:   . . The Authority shall have power to do all such things as are necessary for the effective exercise of the functions of the Authority and, in particular, but without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Authority shall have power; 
Various paragraphs then set out the scheme of the present Act. The matter has been treated publicly and in another place on the basis that that provision which I have just read confers some magic power, some stealthy power to use an expression used earlier this afternoon by  Senator Guilfoyle,  to do something that it was never intended the Board should have power to do. I point out that when it is analysed it is simply an enabling provision which has its counterpart in numerous statutes of this Parliament. It is usual when an Authority is given certain functions to give it a power to carry out those functions. If not, why should the Parliament impose the function or state the function or declare the function in the first place? To mention examples of statutes in which a similar power is contained in order to permit the function to be carried out, I need mention only the Australian National Airlines Act, the Australian Tourist Commission Act, the Australian Shipping Commission Act and the Australian Wool Corporation Act, all of which have general powers identical with that contained in clause 6 (a) of this Bill and none of which has ever been suggested as an unnecessary or an excessive power. I submit to the Senate that there is just no substance in the claim that that power is an unnecessary power or an excessively wide power. The proposal in the Bill before the Senate to remedy the defect which the present 
Opposition when in government in 1972 was formally and legally advised did exist, is a proposal which really can be split into 4 parts. Firstly- I have already dealt with this-that contained in clause 6 (a); secondly, that contained in clause 6 (b) which simply adds to the existing function of the Board the words 'or programs containing matter of any class or character specified in the determination'. I do not doubt that violence would be a matter which would attract the attention of the Authority primarily hi relation to that power. Is the Opposition prepared to be judged on the basis that it rejects to the Authority the power to control violence in a proper way? That is the effect of the Opposition's attitude. The third provision, designed to remedy the existing defects, is contained in clause 6 (d). I shall read that clause because I feel that the failure to read and to understand it probably is the reason why there has been so much misinformed comment on this Bill. It inserts the following new paragraph to section 16(3): 
to determine rules and standards to be observed by licensees - 
This is in relation to broadcasting and television programs- 
. including rules or standards with respect to the nature and content of programs; 
Apart from the fact that that provision puts in proper legal perspective the powers of the Authority to carry out its functions, I ask: Wherein does it differ from the existing power in section 99 of the present Act? As I have said, that section gives a power to the Board to determine standards and to require those standards to be observed by the proprietors of broadcasting and television stations and an ultimate power of direction by the Board. Wherein is there a difference? If there is no difference wherein lies the justification for the Opposition's attitude to this Bill? 
I said that there were 4 basic ways in which the present defects were sought to be remedied. I have dealt with three of them. The point I wish to make is that in none of those three new provisions is there any question of ministerial interference. This Bill has been presented by some members of the media, pursuing their 'right' to have freedom to write what they like, as a Bill which was brimful of ministerial control- 'the Juggernaut', as the 'Age' writer described it. In none of the 3 provisions so far that I have considered is there any question of ministerial control. It is a gratuitous insult to the Authority which the Bill proposes to set up in place of the present Board to suggest that it would permit itself to be subject to any ministerial dictation or control. 
I ask members of the Opposition whether they will also answer this question: In the 23 years in which the Opposition parties were in government was there any instance in which it could fairly be claimed, and perhaps the Government blamed for it, that there had been an improper exercise of the powers of the Board as those powers were spelled out in the 1948 legislation? The second question I ask the Opposition is: Is there any instance in the past quarter of a century or more, since the 1948 Act right up to the present, in which it can be suggested that there has been any improper ministerial attempt to influence the Board? If the answer to each of those 2 questions is no, and I believe that would be the truthful answer, wherein is there any place for the Opposition's criticism of this Bill? It is simply, in my submission to the Senate, a case of the Opposition's parroting the attitude that it took in 1948 when, in the debates in the House of Representatives, the word 'nationalisation' was intruded to a nauseous degree. It is not a question of nationalisation. It was not a question of nationalisation in 1948. The suggestion that it is, as I have said, does an extreme disservice to a board which I suggest has been an adornment to the radio and television industries for a very long period. I should have thought that the Opposition, knowing that its attitude may result in the destruction of this legislation at the second reading stage, would have been at pains in fairness to mention at least some of the safeguards in relation to the exercise of these newly arranged powers of the Authority. But it did not do so. 
I have not overlooked the fourth manner in which the defects are proposed to be remedied. I will come to that later. I want to mention the question of safeguards now. In the first place the Government has met the main objection of the Opposition in another place, namely that the powers of the Authority would not be subject to parliamentary scrutiny. As I have said that concession received scant mention in  Senator Guilfoyle  's speech on behalf of the Opposition. Secondly, proposed new sub-section (3b) which is contained in clause 6 (e) meets another Opposition objection in another place because it provides 
Rules and standards determined by the Authority under paragraph (e) of sub-section (3) shall be of general application and shall not be expressed to apply to a particular commercial broadcasting station ... or particular commercial television station . . . 
There is no question of any station being singled out for some special treatment of an adverse or prejudicial character to its programming. The Authority, when it made a determination of this sort, would know that its determination would be subject to the scrutiny of this Parliament and to disallowance by either House in the same way as a regulation is subject to disallowance. 
Again I suggest that it would be a complete insult to the Authority to suggest that it would capriciously, arbitrarily or wrongly exercise a power which will be expressed, if the Minister's amendment had a chance to be considered and passed by this Senate, so carefully by this proposed amendment. In other words every determination of the Authority of the type of which we are speaking can come before this Parliament and be openly debated and if the Parliament considers it wrong it is disallowed. That, I suggest, is a completely democratic approach. Indeed, reading the speeches made in the House of Representatives on this Bill reveals that it was really a basic amendment which the Opposition then wanted. It has got its amendment and now it shifts its ground. By that it ought to be judged. 
I said that there were 4 prime ways in which the present difficulties were sought to be rectified. I have dealt with three of them. I have emphasised that with respect to those three, there is no question of any ministerial power or control over the Authority. The fourth is contained in proposed new sub-section (3 a) which is inserted by clause 6 (e). It deals with programs of Australian origin. I point out 2 things because I think they are important in judging the Opposition's stance. The first is that for the first time in these amendments the Minister is mentioned so far as powers are concerned. But the approval of the Minister can only be an approval of requirements which have been considered and thought desirable by the Authority. The Minister has no power of unilateral action. He can only, under the clear words of proposed new subsection (3a), give his approval to or withhold it from proposals which are made by the Authority itself. It is not a question of the Minister's suddenly emerging one day and for some ulterior, stealthy motive deciding that he will act under proposed new sub-section (3a). He cannot do so. 
The second point I want to make is that even if this Bill is defeated and even if proposed new sub-section (3a) therefore does not become law it would still in my submission be the very clear duty of the Minister to take every possible step to ensure that there was a proper content of programs of Australian origin. That, as I have said, is specifically written into the Canadian legislation. Any Minister who permitted a situation to arise in which, in particular, television stations could ignore the present points system and the principle which is contained in proposed new sub-section (3a) would be in dereliction of his duty. Otherwise, the public would be exposed to a situation in which some channels- I do not say all- would saturate the public with nonAustralian origin material acquired cheaply and, I suggest, not to the edification of the Australian public. 
When I mention the Australian public I return to the fact that for over a quarter of a century the present Opposition, which was in government for a very large part of that period, and the present Government have accepted it as proper that a prime function of the Board should be to control programs, from the point of view of their adequacy and comprehensiveness, to serve the best interests of the general public. It is the public interest which is the test, and I was therefore surprised to hear  Senator Guilfoyle  say this afternoon that the Opposition even opposed the extension of the duty of consultation which is contained in section 16 (4) of the Act. She suggested that it was sufficient for the Board to consult representatives of the stations- to use the expression used in section 16 (4). Surely that Opposition attitude is ignoring the fact that the persons with the principal interest in ensuring adequate and comprehensive programs are the members of the public themselves. This is not a matter to be decided over a glass of sherry by members of the Board and the television stations; this is a matter in which- and I go as far as to say this- trade unions, and certainly the whole mass of the public, have a very pertinent interest. For the Opposition to deny consultation so that that interest can find expression is to me incomprehensible. I have referred to the safeguards which the Opposition virtually ignored, and I have referred to the fact that the only personal ministerial power contained in these amendments relates to the approval of requirements in relation to Australian content, as it is briefly termed. Surely any person who has as open mind would say that that was a proper approach. 
The second matter that is dealt with in this Bill, and which also attracted the Opposition's disapproval, relates to the period for which licences may be renewed. The Minister in his second reading speech explained the position with respect to the period. The Government has gone as far as to accept a change from 3 months to 6 months as the minimum period, yet the Opposition is not satisfied with that. One wonders, if all of the amendments proposed by the Opposition in another place had been accepted, what other argument would have been used by the Opposition to destroy this legislation- legislation which at least in principle I have explained to the Senate was in its contemplation as long ago as late 1971 and early 1972. Unless the independence of Tasmania's so-called independent senator asserts itself this afternoon in a manner which has not been very noticeable in recent months, it seems that this Bill is probably doomed. It is regrettable and it is a rather black day because I believe that the Opposition's attitude in this matter has been dictated by an emotional, hysterical and illogical response to this legislation by vested interests, and I believe that that is not the way in which this Parliament ought to consider legisation of a type such as this which has such an important bearing on the interests of the public. 
It is noticeable that in almost parrot fashion the Opposition mouths such expressions as 'freedom of the Press', 'nationalisation' and other similar expressions. I say that the Opposition mouths these expressions because they come in this context originally from the interests that see in this legislation- but I suggest see falsely- a means whereby the Government, by some sleight of hand which does not appear in the legislation but which is attributed to it, will act in a manner which will stop the perpetuation of the empires of some of the media representatives. It is those representatives who wish to deny proper control, especially in the area of television, a control which has been considered appropriate, I repeat, for over a quarter of a century. It is those representatives who would deny to a responsible authority- I emphasise that it is a responsible authority- the right to scrutinise their programs. I believe that the media representatives who initiated the opposition to this legislation simply wish to bestride the communications industry and will not brook any interference in their licence, which I suggest is not just the statutory licence but a licence to do what they like. 
Simply to bring the matter up to date, I believe from what has been said by members of the Labor Party over more than a quarter of a centuryand it was accepted by the Opposition when it was in government for nearly 23 yearsthat this Senate ought not tolerate that emotive and self-interested approach to legislation which is designed to give legal efficacy to provisions which have been considered proper for so long and to legislation which, if it is refused, will, I believe, lead to a renewal of the defiance which some of the stations have adopted towards the Board over a long period, a defiance which was recognised so clearly that when  Senator Cotton  and  Senator Greenwood  were in government they were able to say that the then Government would legislate in order to prevent that defiance. If the Opposition wishes it to go out to the public- and I believe that it cannot blame anyone but itself- that it is opposed to giving appropriate legal clothing to functions which have been accepted as proper for so long, the Opposition has no one but itself to blame if it is misunderstood. It is still not too late for the Opposition to invite sensible amendments to this legislation rather than to reject it out of hand, as  Senator Guilfoyle  has intimated is the present intention of the Opposition. I support the measure. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. As a preface I invite his attention to the fact that it is reported, not with dissent, that the Tasmanian Government's revenue funds by the end of this month will be depleted to a mere $2m. That represents the total of funds in the Consolidated Revenue Fund, the Trust Fund and the Loan Fund whereas the Trust Fund alone at this time of the year, it is alleged, should be approximately $12m. The situation apparently is so serious that teachers will not be able to receive their holiday pay in one sum before they commence their holidays but will have to be paid over the holiday period. In view of the fact that an extreme shortage of liquidity appears to exist in the Tasmanian Government will the Minister request the Treasurer to consider going into the situation with the Tasmanian Treasury with a view to determining whether it is possible to expedite Australian Government payments to Tasmania which have been approved during the current financial year- in other words, payments properly approved which may not be due for actual payment until, let us say, the middle of February- in order to relieve what appears to be a chronic liquidity shortage? 
I direct a question to the Minister for the Media in relation to the network of publication and inquiry centres throughout Australia. Do the Department of the Media and the Government have plans for an extension of that network? Approximately how many centres are in operation at present throughout the nation? What is the volume of the inquiries those centres have received? Generally, does the Minister regard this initiative of the Government as one which could be said to be successful? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation. I preface it by drawing attention to the fact that extensive alterations to the repatriation hospital in Hobart are in the course of construction, and that fact prompts my question. Will the Minister indicate what provision is made by the Department of Repatriation and Compensation for staff training? How many of the Department's general hospitals are teaching hospitals for medical undergraduates? How many such undergraduates were taught at these hospitals last year or this year? Specifically, what is the position with regard to medical undergraduate training in relation to the repatriation hospital in Hobart? 
After  Senator Bessell  had been speaking on this Bill for a few minutes tonight I thought that the Opposition has at last realised that the people of King Island are utterly sick of the political football antics of  Senator Rae  and some other members of the Opposition in relation to this shipping service. Unfortunately,  Senator Bessell  was led astray by  Senator Rae  by way of an interjection.  Senator Rae  has indulged in personal abuse of the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  and has indulged in a political apologia which has become very common with him so far as Tasmanian shipping services are concerned. I had hoped that, following  Senator Bessell,  I could have very briefly said that as a result of this measure and as a result of other actions taken by the Australian Government shipping problems of King Island which have bedevilled it for so long appeared likely to be solved in the immediate future. Unfortunately, in view of  Senator Rae's  remarks tonight, I cannot leave it like that because the Government of which he was a supporter went out of office in December 1972 with a record so far as the King Island shipping service is concerned that was one of utter disgrace. I say that for 2 reasons. There was no effective King Island service when the Liberal-Country Party Government went out of office. There had not been an effective service for some 6 months, and in the period between June 1972 and December 1972 when the 'Straitsman' was not operating the Australian Government - 
Will you just leave your apologia to another day. We have had enough of it tonight. The Australian Government refused every request from the Tasmanian Government for even temporary assistance to alleviate the situation and would not even guarantee, give or lend $300,000 which the Tasmanian Government requested in that period in order to solve temporarily the liquidity problems of the owner of the 'Straitsman'. The Minister at the time was  Mr Peter  Nixon. If  Senator Rae  wants to apologise to the people of Tasmania on the air tonight let him say, when he gets the opportunity, what he did in that 6 months in order to get a change in the attitude of the then Australian Government. 
Whatever he did, it was not effective, and the then Australian Government made it perfectly plain that it regarded the Tasmanian Government as responsible so far as government help was needed for the maintaining of an effective shipping service to King Island. The then Australian Government washed its hands of the matter. If it had still been in office its hands would still have been washed of the matter, but they would not have been very clean. 
Whenever  Senator Rae  interjects in that characteristic manner of his we can always be sure that he has been touched on the raw. He is very good at resorting to offensive expressions such as 'liar' against a person who is not here- I refer to the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)-  but when his own conduct is called in question one notices that he has resort to persistent interjections. They will not deter me. 
The second respect in which the record of the previous Government is appalling is the conspiracy that was entered into- a political conspiracy- between the Government of which  Senator Rae  was a supporter and the Liberal Government of Tasmania to deprive the people of King Island of the benefit of a subsidy. This was the astute and devious way in which that was achieved. It was realised- and this was perfectly true, of course- that substantial improvements were necessary to the port facilities at King Island and it was decided while those 2 respective Liberal Governments were in power that extensive work should be done following a feasibility study. At that time there was a subsidy of $3.35 a ton which had been granted by the Australian Government in 1965 and which was worth approximately $150,000 a year. So in order to get rid of that subsidy the Tasmanian Liberal Government was bought off with a grant of $677,000 as half the cost of the construction of the new port facilities. That was done as recently as about 3 years ago and the Australian Government, of which  Senator Rae  was a supporter, capitalised an annual contribution of something like $ 1 50,000 over a 416-year period by making a grant of $677,000. That was done by a government which now in opposition through  Senator Rae  and through the spokesman for Tasmania in another place when the matter was debated there urges that subsidies be reintroduced. I say to  Senator Rae  in the concluding stages of this debate tonight: Let the Opposition tell us, not next week, not next year, but now, before the debate on this Bill concludes, specifically what it will promise for the King Island shipping services if it is elected to government. And let it be specific. 
Debate interrupted. 
I address my question to the Minister for Agriculture in his capacity as representative of the Treasurer. I draw attention to the continuing spate of publicity in the Tasmanian media with respect to the financial difficulties currently, and temporarily I understand, of the Tasmanian Government which are of such an extent that, as I indicated in a similar question last week, teachers will not receive their holiday pay when they leave work before Christmas. I ask the Minister Has any request been made by the Tasmanian Government to the Australian Government for temporary assistance in its liquidity difficulty. If so, what is the position? If not, does the Australian Government stand ready to enter into discussions with the Tasmanian Government to see whether there is any proper way in which it can assist that State Government? 
-The Senate is debating the King Island Shipping Service Agreement Bill, the purpose of which is to approve an agreement between the Australian Government and the Government of Tasmania for the provision of $ 1.45 m by way of loan from the Australian Government to Tasmania in order to finance the purchase on behalf of the Transport Commission of Tasmania of the motor vessel 'Straitsman'. In the few minutes before the Senate adjourned last night I had deplored the fact that the Opposition had deliberately chosen to turn the debate on this beneficent measure into a low standard party political brawl. That fact was the more to be deplored because of the record of the Liberal-Country Party Opposition when in government in 2 respects. I briefly restate them. In the last 6 months of the LiberalCountry Party Government in 1 972 that is, between June and December, the 'Straitsman' in fact was not operating that service because it had encountered economic difficulties. The then Liberal-Country Party Government deliberately chose to allow the King Island service to remain virtually non-existent, apart from what little relief could be afforded. Its attitude was expressed in a letter dated 30 August 1972 written by the then Prime Minister,  Mr McMahon,  to the Premier of Tasmania. I have the authority of the Premier to quote from that letter. In order to save time, I seek leave of the Senate to have the letter incorporated in Hansard. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The letter read as follows)- 
Prime Minister 
CANBERRA 
30 August 1972 
Dear  Mr Reece, 
I refer to the previous correspondence between us concerning the State's request for financial assistance for the shipping service to King Island, and the discussions that have been held between our officers on this matter. 
As the Commonwealth understands the position, the State is requesting either a grant of $300,000, or a loan of that amount on concessional terms as to interest, to enable the State to relieve R. H. Houfe &amp; Co. Pty Ltd of its financial problems so that the vessel the 'Straitsman' can resume its service to King Island forthwith. It would seem that the judgment has been made that the discharge of the Company's liabilities to an amount of $300,000 is sufficient to enable the resumption of the shipping service. 
The Commonwealth has noted that the State Parliament has passed the Bill introduced by your Government to guarantee the repayment of monies proposed to be borrowed by R. H. Houfe &amp; Co. Ltd up to $300,000 from any source approved by your Government, and the payment of interest thereon. It is also understood that the Company has been engaged in negotiations for a loan to be guaranteed under this legislation. 
This action by the State is of course consistent with its responsibility to see that its community on King Island has available to it an adequate shipping service. Having regard to the security involved in a guarantee from the State Government, it would not be unrealistic to expect that a loan should be forthcoming from commercial sources on reasonable terms. 
In these circumstances, and having regard to the provision for a loan to the shipping operator in the King Island Port Facilities Agreement (to which I referred in earlier correspondence), it seems clear that your Government does not now have to consider providing a loan to the Company. This means, in turn, that in the current circumstances the question of whether the $300,000 could be found from the State's Budget can be set aside, and that there is no need for the 
Commonwealth to consider as an alternative the provision of this amount to the State. 
You indicated in your telegram of 1 8 July that you saw the provision of Commonwealth assistance as a grant or lowinterest loan as a means of aiding the viability of the shipping service. This would, of course, amount to subsidisation, as well as the financing, of the shipping service. However, I am advised that the information supplied by the Company indicated that operations by the 'Straitsman' are estimated to show a small surplus for a year ahead, after allowing for the raising of a loan of $300,000, interest on the loan at 8 per cent per annum, and depreciation on the ship. If it eventuated that the Company could not carry the full rate of interest, on the above figures amounting to $24,000 per annum in the first year, any subsidy that may be necessary in this respect would be too small in relation to the State 's Budget to justify the Commonwealth giving consideration to providing assistance for it to the State. 
Moreover, the Commonwealth stated its attitude on the matter of subsidisation of the shipping service when it made its offer of financial assistance totalling $1,355,000 towards the development of the port at Grassy. Your predecessor, in his letter of 7 April 1 972, accepted this offer but he went on to say that the State could not unreservedly renounce the right to approach the Commonwealth at any time requesting a further subsidy arrangement. You indicated a similar view in your letter of 9 June 1972. 
On this matter the Commonwealth can understand the State wishing to reserve the right to approach it at any time concerning a further subsidy arrangement. The Commonwealth wished to make it clear that the shipping subsidy previously provided was to cease when the new ship commenced to operate, and that in the Commonwealth's view the State should carry full responsibility for any future subsidy it thought to be necessary. This is of course of some relevance to the present circumstances. It is noted that, as with the Commonwealth, the State has discontinued the subsidy it formerly paid in respect of the service. 
The Commonwealth Government plans to introduce legislation for the financial assistance towards the port development as soon as possible. 
Yours sincerely, 
William McMahon 
The Honourable E. E. Reece, M.H.A., 
Premier of Tasmania, 
HOBART, Tas. 7000 
-The crux of the letter, expressing the Commonwealth 's attitude at that time, is contained in these sentences: 
The Commonwealth wished to make it clear - 
This is  Mr McMahon  writing- that the shipping subsidy previously provided was to cease when the new ship - 
That is the 'Straitsman'- commenced to operate, and that in the Commonwealth's view the State should carry full responsibility for any future subsidy it thought to be necessary. 
That was the clear attitude of the LiberalCountry Party Government of the day. The second reason for which I deplore the attitude of the Opposition last night to this Bill is that it was the Opposition, when in government, which by a confidence trick practised on the Liberal Premier of Tasmania of the day,  Mr Bethune,  got itself out of the obligation that it had carried since 1965 of granting a subsidy of $3.35 a ton, originally $5 a ton. It got itself out of that obligation by the specious device of offering a grant of $677,000 to the Tasmanian Government to pay for half the cost of development of the new port facilities at Grassy- a very good business deal,  Mr Deputy President,  when you can liquidate an obligation to pay $150,000 a year and capitalise it over  4  years payments. Your nod and your business acumen is it, indicate that you agree with me. It was a very good deal for the Australian Government but not for the people of King Island. 
However, by contrast with that, the fact is that in 2 years the present Government has cooperated with the Tasmanian Government to create the basis for a regular and adequate shipping service for King Island, and it has done that in 2 ways. Firstly, the Australian Minister for Transport,  Mr Charles  Jones, approved the importation of the vessel 'Rah', and I am pleased to inform the Senate that the 'Rah', arrived in Australian waters yesterday and has berthed. I discussed her immediate future with the Tasmanian Minister for Transport,  Mr Chisholm,  by phone this morning and he informed me that it is expected that after necessary tests and trials which are to be carried out immediately the vessel will be in actual service before the end of the month. The second way in which the present Government has co-operated with the Tasmanian Government to ensure a regular and adequate service to King Island is in relation to the agreement which is the subject matter of this Bill. The position is that the Straitsman' will be back in service by approximately the middle of next year after extensive refitting and recommissioning have been carried out. It should be recorded that a contract for the work worth approximately $750,000 was let by the Tasmanian Government to the Port of Launceston Authority. So much for the contrasting attitudes of the 2 Governments. 
I want to pass briefly to a matter that was mentioned last night by  Senator Bessell-  and again I deplore this. He poured cold water on the capacity of the 'Rah' to operate a service from Grassy properly and he referred to so-called deficiencies. Again, in discussions this morning the Tasmanian Minister for Transport,  Mr Chisholm,  also deplored the fact that there have been many persons who have posed as knowledgeable critics who have no qualifications to be critics of the position regarding the 'Rah'. 
By spreading what are false stories, they continue to blight the King Island situation. 
The fact is that the 'Rah' was bought with the full knowledge that it would be necessary, in order to achieve completely efficient operations, for certain modifications to be made to the berthing facilities at Grassy. The vessel was inspected before its purchase by Captain Houfe, the most knowledgeable person there is in relation to the King Island shipping service.  His  experience contrasts very strongly with that of some of the illinformed critics who have sought to speak on this matter.  Mr Chisholm  has informed me that expert engineers on behalf of the Tasmanian Transport Commission have expressed the view that there is no doubt whatsoever that with the small modifications which it was foreseen would be necessary- they are mainly to the ramp facilitiesthe 'Rah' will operate a completely efficient service. 
In view of all the tribulation through which the King Islanders have passed over recent years, I feel that it is deplorable and it should not pass notice that even now, with the help of the present Australian Government, when the end is in sight with respect to the shipping difficulties pf King Island a continuing attempt is being made to throw cold water on what is being done. The evidence of that is to be found in what  Senator Bessell  said last night and the insinuation of  Senator Rae  by way of interjection that it was a case of bad management. Obviously this was an attempt to discredit the Tasmanian Government. 
This is how politics is being continually intruded into this situation; and I say that it is time that it stopped. The simple fact is that the people of King Island are tired of the political antics of the Opposition. This is an Opposition which has double standards- one standard when it is in office, as expressed in the letter of 30 August 1972 by  Mr McMahon,  and another standard when it is in Opposition as expressed in both the House of Representatives and the Senate by Opposition spokesmen on this Bill. If I can repeat an expression which seems to me to fit the bill and which has been used in relation to those Opposition spokesmen, they are very shallow water sailors. 
The people of King Island want the long era of inadequate and ill-fated shipping services to be ended. They do not seek charity and they despise the political antics of the Opposition in relation to this matter. I confidently expect that we are on the eve of a new era in relation to the King Island shipping service, an era in which I hope Party politics will give way to a true appreciation of the resilience of the people of King Island and a recognition that they are for the first time in many years about to have a regular and adequate shipping service. This is all the more necessary because it is pleasing to be able to inform the Senate that the Tasmanian Government is very hopeful of significant extensions to the mining operations on King Island- both the mineral sands undertaking and the PekoWallsend scheelite mines. If those significant projected developments take place, it will be essential that there should be a regular, adequate and reliable shipping service which, I believe, is about to be established for the first time. 
I mention one point only in conclusion. Both in another place and here, rather strangely it seemed to me, the question was asked by those who led for the Opposition in the debate on this Bill as to what the explanation was for the fact that the purchase of the 'Straitsman' was achieved at a cost of $1,000,070 whereas this Bill provides in the agreement for a loan to the Tasmanian Government of $1.4 15m. Those who ask that question obviously have not read the Agreement that is included in the Bill. The Schedule to the Bill, which sets out the Agreement in full, indicates quite clearly that it is not only the purchase of the 'Straitsman' that is being subsidised by way of this loan from the Australian Government, but it is- I quote from the Bill: 
. together with additional ship 's equipment and some fork lift trucks and has had the vessel surveyed and certain alterations made at an estimated total cost of $ 1 ,4 1 5,000; 
The explanation need never have been sought. It was to be found in the Bill itself, if the Opposition had been interested enough to read it. I enthusiastically support this Bill. 
I feel that today should be named  'Dr Cass's  day' because the Senate has already agreed to 3 measures, albeit with some amendments, dealing with conservation and we are now debating a fourth Bill which I think goes much farther than has ever before been attempted in Australia. The 4 Bills to which I refer represent the culmination of 2 years of extremely hard work and enlightened dedication by the Minister for the Environment and Conservation  (Dr Cass),  and their significance should not be overlooked. As I have said, this is the first time in Australia that there has been any statutory attempt to go nearly so far in relation to environmental impact statements as this Bill seeks to go. The measure deals not just with pollution, not just with aesthetics, not just with environmental matters in any narrow sense. In order that the true effect of the Bills can be understood I invite the attention of the Senate to the extremely embracing definition of the word environment' appearing in clause 3. It is defined as including 'all aspects of the surroundings of man, whether affecting him as an individual or in his social groupings'. It does seem to me that too many persons at least up to date, have taken the view that environmental matters are narrow in their concept. I believe that they are not and that they are are extremely wide. I invite the attention of the Senate to the first proclamation of the Declaration of the United Nations Conference on the Human Environment as to the scope of the environment as that proclamation saw it. It is defined in these words: 
Man is both creature and moulder of his environment, which gives him physical sustenance and affords him the opportunity for intellectual, moral, social and spiritual growth. In the long and tortuous evolution of the human race on this planet a stage has been reached when, through the rapid acceleration of science and technology, man has acquired the power to transform his environment in countless ways and on an unprecedented scale. Both aspects of man's environment, the natural and the man-made, are essential to his well-being and to the enjoyment of basic human rightseven the right to life itself. ' 
I would for myself add the further point that I do not think that in the ultimate any question of the environment in the true sense can be considered in isolation from the question of planning. In other words, environmental issues do not exist in a vacuum; they are related to the planned development of this earth and everything about it for the benefit of man. 
I want to pay a very brief tribute to the Minister for the Environment and Conservation,  Dr Cass,  because I know from extremely bitter personal experience how difficult it is at times for a Minister charged with this type of portfolio to be able to achieve ministerial co-operation, at least completely. Yet, in his quiet unassuming way,  Dr Cass,  with great respect to him if I may say so, has gone about his ministerial duties with extreme efficiency, so much so that he has been able to persuade his colleagues to insert in this Bill a provision that I believe to be unique so far as statutory provisions are concerned. I refer to clause 8 of the Bill which provides: 
Each Minister shall give all such directions and do all such things as, consistently with any relevant laws as affected by regulations under this Act, can be given or done by him- 
for ensuring that procedures for the time being approved under this Act are given effect to in and in connexion with matters dealt with by the Department administered by him and that any authority of Australia in relation to which he has ministerial  responsibilies  observes, and assists in giving effect to, those procedures; and 
There is a situation in which a statutory duty is cast by that clause on every Minister of the Australian Government. It has no parallel. I think it is unlikely that any government would have the vision and the courage to attempt any such parallel in the future, but that is what the Minister has been able to achieve. He also- and this I think is an indication of the extent of the burden which he is prepared to assume unto himself- has included in clause 10 a provision that any person, any member of the public whatsoever, may, by notice in writing, require the Minister to inform him in writing as to what action, if any, has been taken, or is proposed, for ensuring consideration of the environmental aspects of the matter, and the Minister shall promptly inform the person in writing accordingly. Not many Ministers would have been prepared to assume such a burden as is involved in complying with clause 10, but the present Minister has done so. 
I will be as brief as I can in dealing with what I regard as an extremely important measure. The Bill contains a dual approach to the problem with which it seeks to deal. The first is by clause 6 under a scheme of administrative procedures approved by the Governor-General. Both in another place and here this afternoon doubts were expressed as to whether there would not be some infringement of so-called States rights and some duplication. The simple answer to that is that the effect of the Bill and therefore the application of the administrative procedures cannot transcend the constitutional power of the Australian Government. That is why clause 5 of the Bill has been drafted with what obviously is extreme care. The matters relating to the question of possible duplication between the Australian Government and the State governments are matters in which there is a joint interest, created by the circumstances which are dealt with in clause 5 of the Bill. That being so, it would obviously be a matter of administrative good sense if both governments involved discussed the matter and decided whence the environmental impact study would come. I see no reason to fear any duplication. From my experience over recent years I would have thought that all States would have welcomed the existence of the scheme of administrative procedures which is set out in clause 6 of the Bill. 
The second approach which the Minister has included in this BUI is one of extreme importance to the public, and that is his discretionary power in clause 1 1 to require formal inquiries to be carried out by commissioners, with access by the public to those inquiries and with access to the results of those inquiries. This is something for which conservationists have been figting for a very long time. They have not had a great deal of success in the States in relation to that matter. One should mention what this Bill does not cover lest there be any public misunderstanding. It does not apply to any matters which are outside the constitutional powers of the Australian Government. Therefore, in a matter which is entirely a State matter this Federal law has no application. I regret very much- but I am bound to concede the legal accuracy of the advice that was tendered to the Australian Government- that the Bill will not cover any matters or projects which are the result of the allocation of loan funds to the States or to, the authorities. That was considered in a formal legal way to be outside the power of the Australian Parliament, and one must accept it. One can only hope that one day by constitutional referendum the powers of the Australian Parliament will be increased so that this measure can be a much more embracing one. 
I do not wish to labour the matter very much more execpt to say that this Bill gives me an opportunity to raise a matter that has been of considerable concern to me for some time. I refer to the danger to the nation of Australia of the unbridled export of woodchips, mainly to Japan. The situation has been reached at which we are now exporting close to 3 million tons of woodchips per annum. The value of those woodchips- I do not set a great deal of store on their actual value per se- is nearly $40m. Most of these wood chips come from Tasmania although the exports from New South Wales in the last financial year increased to a point at which they exceeded half a million tons. I do not believe it correct to say that anyone has ever made a proper assessment of the effect of the wood chip industry in relation to the whole ecology of Australia and to the general question of the environment. The attraction of quick money has drawn a curtain over the eyes of some governments to the extent that they are just content to accept money and not give a hang about the future. It is worse when one realises that, to my knowledge, no attempt has been made to impose any statutory obligation on private individuals and companies which in my view are indulging, together with State governments, in the rape and spoliation of part of our natural resource heritage. 
It is from that somewhat bitter experience,  Senator Hall,  that I speak. One could debate this matter at length but all I want to say is that if this Bill is passed the first thing I propose to do is to request the Minister for the Environment and Conservation to direct an inquiry on a national basis under clause 1 1 into all aspects of the wood chip industry so far as it affects Australia and our future. 
It is unfortunate, perhaps, that this Bill, for reasons that are beyond control, is being debated in the dying hours of this sitting. It is important in my view that governments realise that they are not the beneficial owners of the earth, the sea and the air of the jurisdictions in which they operate. They are trustees only, and those governments will be judged by the manner in which they carry out that trust. The Australian Labor Government and the Minister,  Dr Cass,  in particular, have grasped the nettle with this Bill and they have given the nation of Australia a basis for hoping that man will intelligently mould to his total environment, including his social groupings, to his advancement and happiness. In conclusion this is a day for which responsible environmentalists have hoped but their hopes, I suggest, would never have materialised without the enlightened policies of the Australian Government which now are in statutory form. I support the Bill. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Agriculture. I preface it by referring to the stability for rural producers that has been generated by the Government's decision to support a floor price for wool during the current wool selling season. Can he inform the Senate when an announcement may be expected on the Government's intentions in respect of wool marketing in the 1 975-76 wool selling season? 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I refer to the joint statement made in Hobart on 23 January last by the  Deputy  Prime Minister,  Dr Cairns,  and the Premier of Tasmania,  Mr Reece,  concerning a second bridge across the Derwent River. I remind the Minister that in that statement it was said that the Australian and Tasmanian Governments had agreed that a joint engineering force would be established to investigate and recommend the most suitable type and site for a second bridge. I ask the Minister: Firstly, has the joint engineering force yet been established? If not, when is it expected that its establishment will be complete? Secondly, if the force has been established, what is its constitution and when is it expected that it will commence its investigations? Thirdly, is it likely that private engineering expertise will be involved in the investigations of the force? Fourthly, how long is it expected that the investigations and report of the force will take? 
I support the Opposition's amendment which is before the Senate, but I do so with considerable misgivings. My misgivings arise from the fact that obviously this amendment represents an attempt by the Opposition to take off  Mr Lewis,  the Premier of New South Wales, some of the heat that his precipitate and almost infamous threat on Monday has drawn against him. I also support it with a feeling of sadness in that I look across at the Opposition benches and I see a number of honourable senators who, over a long period of years, have proclaimed their insistence on the observance of the Constitution and constitutional conventions; yet on this issue and in this context, purely to give some protective ointment to the Premier of New South Wales they retreat from those convictions that they have professed so strongly over such a long period. 
Last Monday, when the Premier of New South Wales first made the threat that is the subject of this debate, was a black day for parliamentary integrity; it was a black day for respect for constitutional convention throughout this nation. But it was also a black day for the Liberal Party in Australia and particularly in New South Wales. In 3 short days since then the Liberal Party, as  Senator Steele  Hall said earlier this morning, has attracted to itself condemnation for the politically motivated action which lies behind  Mr Lewis's  threat. Last night  Senator Guilfoyle  took exception to the description by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  of  Mr Lewis's  threat as one of sabotage. My only criticism of the Prime Minister's description is that I think that it was too kind and that it would have been for better if he had described it as an act of political rape, for that is what it is. However, we do not know what the final outcome of the threat will be. At least until after the Premiers Conference tomorrow  Mr Lewis  has given himself a let-out because he has appointed a sub-committee to consider the legal and constitutional implications of his threat. 
I am pleased that he has done so, because I do not doubt that in a consideration of this matter the sub-committee and its advisers will start with the authoritative work of Quick and Garran in their commentaries on the Constitution. If the members of the sub-committee take the trouble to read the commentary by Quick and Garran on section 16 of the Constitution they will learn, if they do not already know, that even before any question of proportional representation was involved in election to the Senate the procedure for filling a casual vacancy under section 1 5 of the Constitution was regarded- this is supported by the convention debates- as an extremely temporary measure until either the expiration of the term of office of the vacating senator or the next House of Representatives or Senate election. I refer honourable senators to page 436 of the work. I will read portion of what is contained on that page, because I think it is relevant in this context to indicate that it was never intendednever even contemplated- that section 15 of the Constitution could be used in this blatantly political way to upset in some cases at least the balance of power in the Senate. Quick and Garran state: 
The legislative selection is only operative until the expiration of the term or the election of a successor, whichever first happens; it: is merely an ad interim appointment, in order to save the State from being short of a senator, on the one hand, and to save the State the cost of a special election, on the other: the legislative  apppointee  is not a successor of the deceased, disqualified, or resigned, senator, but merely a temporary holder of office, pending the election of a successor by the people ofthe State. 
I suggest that it is not against me. I suggest that what that does is to indicate that the framers of the Constitution never comtemplated, even before proportional representation- I emphasise that- that the Premier of a State presumably without consultation with his colleagues or other members of parliament could blatantly state that he would take advantage of the accident that he was in power on the other side of politics and would appoint a successor who could alter in a practical way the voting situation in the Senate 
As  Senator Wright  has interjected, I remind him that he was a member of the Joint Committee on Constitutional Review which reported in 1959. Will that honourable senator, who so often has proclaimed respect for the complete upholding of the letter and the spirit of the Constitution, retreat from his endorsement of the report when it unanimously expressed the view that without exception- they are the words contained in the report- what  Mr Lewis  is threatening to do should never be done? How sincere can his protestations of respect for the Constitution, its letter and its spirit be when, after having been a party to that report- I refer to page 43 of it- he retreats and says, in effect: 'Let us water down the Government's motion; let us give  Mr Lewis  a little ointment that the public barbs seem to indicate he needs'? 
At this stage I want to go back and to explain, so that it can be recorded for history, why the Government is supporting this amendment. It is doing so only for practical reasons related to the voting strength in this chamber. It is perfectly obvious that the Opposition's amendment would be defeated because the question would be negatived 30 all if the Government opposed it. That would be an unsatisfactory situation when we consider the next position, that is, that if we can distil any logic from the speech of the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers)  last night the Opposition would then vote against the Government's motion. What would be the practical situation if this happened? It would be that therewould be no motion coming forward from the Senate. 
The interjection from  Senator Bessell  seems to indicate that he does not have much respect for the judgment of  Mr Lewis.  The honourable senator seems to be proclaiming him as a stubborn man. He has the advantage of knowing  Mr Lewis  personally; I know him only by reputation. 
I said that last Monday was a black day. Let us look very briefly at some of the consequences of this threat if it is carried out. In the first place, such action would set a precedent which any person with respect for the Constitution surely would not want set. That is what the Joint Committee on Constitutional Review said in 1959. Would anyone cast any doubt on the competency of that Committee? It was one of the strongest committees that this Parliament has ever known. Secondly, the threat of  Mr Lewis  makes a mockery of the words that were uttered by the Leader of the Opposition in this chamber as recently as Tuesday. I quote  Senator Withers'  words in the context ofthe granting of a pair following  Senator Murphy's  resignation. He said this:   no political group should take advantage of an unusual situation brought about by cither death or resignation. 
What would  Mr Lewis  be doing if he carried out his threat? In the words of  Senator Withers  he would be taking advantage of an unusual situation brought about by either death or resignation. 
The third result that execution of the threat would have is that it would deny the voters of New South Wales the party representation for which they voted in this chamber less than a year ago. I would describe that as political cynicism which has no parallel. It is more than an insult to a significant section of the New South Wales voters. It is a jack booted deprivation of their constitutional rights. It is an invitation to political anarchy, and maybe even worse. When I say that, I invite the attention of honourable senators to an article in the 'Australian' today by an academic from New South Wales who already is canvassing the counter move to  Mr Lewis  if he carries out his threat. 
The interjection directs attention to the Machiavellian mind of  Senator Wright. 
-Of course.  Senator Wright  is the great upholder of the Constitution and has been for a quarter of a century. Let it never be touched in its spirit or its letter, until a fellow Liberal is in trouble. The article by an academic in the 'Australian' today to which I have referred suggests, as I have said, the next counter move in this constitutional game of chess.  Mr President,  in case you have not had an opportunity to read it, I advise you that the serious suggestion is that this infamous act of  Mr Lewis,  if he carries it out, can be countered by your refusing to administer to the appointee the oath of allegiance. 
Opposition senators- Oh! 

 -Mr President, we hear the 'Ohs' of Opposition senators. This is what happens once people start to tinker with constitutional convention and constitutional practice. Where is there the obligation in a legal sense on you,  Mr President,  to administer an oath? That is the message in the article. I hope the day will never come when we have to consider the propriety of whether you should take that action. I have referred to the article to illustrate the point that if the Premier of New South Wales is going to be infamous he is inviting wrong conduct at least by his political opponents. I hope I never see the day- I would have thought that the professed upholders of the Constitution would never want to see the day- when matters of this nature will be the subject of chess moves of a constitutional character in order to gain political advantage. 
It is notable that when the Opposition is being exposed as being hypocritical in this matter it has to have resort to matters which lie in history and which have their counterparts in the actions of our opponents over a long period of 23 years. One could refer to other results which could follow, but I believe other speakers have adequately canvassed them. I pass now to the next point which concerns me deeply. I ask: What is the motivation of  Mr Lewis?  Is it spleen? Is it just grandstanding and the taking by this fledgling Premier of 5 weeks of the opportunity to show his strength? Is it to put pressure on the Australian Government in order to get some better treatment for New South Wales starting tomorrow at the Premiers Conference? Is it to divert attention from his own political ineptitude and that of his Government as illustrated by the handling of the recent power crisis in New South Wales? There may be other reasons, but whatever his motivation I would describe his threat, and I would describe the execution of that threat if it is carried out, as the most blatant, partisan political trickery since proportional representation was introduced in the Senate. I suggest that  Mr Lewis,  if he carries out his threat, stands condemned, the Liberal Party will stand condemned with him and the Senate to a degree will stand condemned for the mealymouthed, weak manner in which it has sought to express its views on this matter. If the issue had arisen in another context not involving a Liberal government and a Liberal Premier, it would have brought the stern condemnation of those who for so long in this chamber have said that the Constitution, what is implicit in it and what is convention as a result of it must be fairly upheld. 
Hypocrisy marched last night and again today. The aspect of last night's debate which sickened me most was the apologia that was delivered by  Senator Scott-  I regret he is not in the chamberin defence of the action of  Mr Lewis.  It was an apologia that traversed matters that had been canvassed in this chamber on many occasions, lt amounted to this: 'All right, we recognise the convention. We commend that the convention bc observed, but  Mr Lewis  would be justified in ignoring the expression of view of the Senate because in our political judgment this Government ought to be out of office'. What an illogical approach to the matter. Would  Senator Scott  have permitted the Labor Opposition in this chamber before 1972 to take a parallel attitude during the years in which the infamy of Vietnam was being perpetrated? If a similar situation had arisen with reverse parties during that period of infamy would  Senator Scott  have listened to a Labor senator in this chamber who said: 'Because you are acting in this infamous way by maintaining this undeclared war with Vietnam we will take advantage of the situation and we will not observe the convention'? There is no logic whatsoever in that. 
The other aspect of  Senator Scott's  speech to which I wish to refer- I do not believe that a person of the lustre of ex-Senator Murphy should be permitted to be reviled in this way- was the snide manner in which he attacked the propriety of the appointment of ex-Senator Murphy and his suitability to be appointed to the Bench of the High Court. The Liberal-Country Party has double standards. It has one standard when in office and it has one standard when in Opposition. I should like to refer on this issue to what was said by the present Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Snedden,  when he was AttorneyGeneral in 1 964 on the occasion of the swearingin of the present Chief Justice of the High Court of Australia,  Sir Garfield  Barwick.  Mr Snedden  dealt at length with  Sir Garfield's  distinguished career. I do not wish anything that I say in this context to be taken as the slightest reflection in any way on  Sir Garfield  Barwick. I will simply quote what was said by  Mr Snedden  on that occasion as shown in a verbatim report of a speech which appears in the Commonwealth Law Reports for 1964-1965. After tracing the political career of  Sir Garfield  Barwick and referring to his achievements, in  Mr Snedden  's view, in relation to the portfolios that he occupied,  Mr Snedden  said: 
By pure coincidence three of your Honour's predecessors as Chief Justice who had earlier held political office alternated in succession with three others who had not. The three who had held political office were Chief Justices Griffith, Isaacs and Latham. Between their respective terms of office came the Chief Justiceships of Knox, Gavan Duffy and Dixon. By coincidence, your Honour follows exactly in series. 
The important words are these: 
No man, looking back over their succession, could say that political experience was a necessary condition of a distinguished chief-justiceship - 
The pregnant words are: 
No man, however, could say that it was, in the slightest, a disqualification. 
I repeat: 
No man, however, could say that political experience was, in the slightest, a disqualification. 
The present Chief Justice of Australia,  Sir Garfield  Barwick, in a tribute to the late  Sir John  Latham who died on the 25 July 1964, referred to the very extensive political career of  Sir John  Latham, who as honourable senators know was appointed directly from Attorney-Generalship of the Commonwealth by the Government of which he was a member to the Chief Justiceship ofthe High Court in 1935. 
I suggest that that is not so. If I am wrong about the facts I will acknowledge that.  Sir Garfield  Barwick said: 

 Sir John Latham thus brought to the performance of the duties of the office of Chief Justice a wide and varied experience of public and international affairs and a familiarity with the working of the Australian Constitution gleaned both in the days of his practice at the Bar and in government during his term as a Cabinet Minister and as a parliamentarian. 
If there was that gap before his appointment to the High Court- I did not think there was- it makes no difference whatsoever to the point that was made by  Mr Snedden  in 1964 and by  Sir Garfield  Barwick in 1965. The point is that the High Court of Australia has been studded with persons who have moved directly from high political office to the Bench of that court. It is not for me- I do not do so- to suggest that any one of them was false to his oath of office or that any one of them was influenced by the fact that he, as a politician, had previously considered matters that later came before the court. To do so is to confer on them, as well as on  Mr Justice  Murphy, a gratuitous insult which is completely unjustified. It seems to be part of the Liberal Party's philosophy to suggest that judges of superior courts should be conservatives- conservatives in their thinking, conservatives in their actions and conservatives in all their attitudes. To my mind that argument ignores the fact that the courts are interpreting matters, so far as the High Court is concerned, of extreme constitutional and social concern. Why should that interpretation be the prerogative of one section only of the community? For courts to be living and to be able truly to reflect social mores they ought to bc comprised of men not only of distinction but also of differing social backgrounds and of different philosophies, and I am not speaking of party political philosophies. Does anyone suggest that  Mr Justice  Denning, now Lord Denning, was not a complete adornment to the courts through which he marched in England over a period of some decades? He brought to that musty, imperial judicial system a breath of fresh air that is badly needed. I believe he is continuing that attitude in the judicial role that he now occupies. 
I do not know what honourable senators think on this matter, but I am certainly not prepared to allow  Senator Scott's  attack on the Government and on former  Senator Murphy  last night to go unanswered. I do not know whether the honourable senator who has just interjected was here when  Senator Scott  made his speech or whether he has read it, but what  Senator Scott  said in essence- I quote his words as much as possible- was that the appointment was one that would lose respect for the law and if we are to lose respect for its institutions and personnel then a free society is doomed and confidence has gone. Is not that the strongest possible indictment of the propriety of the appointment? 
The honourable senator who interjects ought to read the full text, if he did not hear the speech, of what  Senator Scott  said. I am endeavouring to rebut that and as a corollary, because former  Senator Murphy  can no longer speak for himself on this matter- his tongue is silent for ever on this issue- I propose to take this opportunity to say to the Senate that in my respectful submission the appointment was from all points of view a completely proper one. We are debating  Mr Lewis'  action.  Mr Lewis  is on public record as having attempted to justify his action by criticising the appointment of former  Senator Murphy. 
-Senator Martin will not divert me from my defence of former  Senator Murphy.  We are debating a matter relating to  Mr Lewis'  threat.  Mr Lewis  has on more than one occasion publicly linked his threat with criticism of the appointment of former  Senator Murphy. Senator Scott  last night took up that criticism in the manner that I have indicated. I will answer this generally and completely, I hope.  Mr Lewis  also had the temerity publicly to say- I heard it- that former  Senator Murphy  could not be described as an eminent jurist. Of course he is not an eminent jurist, but he is about to become one. I wonder whether  Senator Scott  in his criticism of former  Senator Murphy  last night - 
Yes. I was about to say: What does  Senator Scott  know of the legal capacity at the Bar, which is the prime criterion for appointment as a judge, of former  Senator Murphy?  I propose to say to the Senate certain things about that matter which may not be known by a number of honourable senators. Former  Senator Murphy's  career at the Bar has been the subject of close investigation by me during this week for the purpose of this debate. 1 never had the privilege of appearing against former  Senator Murphy  or with him, but when his career at the Bar is examined it would, I believe be fair to say that few judges who have been appointed to the High Court during the period of three-quarters of a century have had anything like the breadth of experience at the Bar that former  Senator Murphy  has had. He has had an extremely wide practice. It would be quite wrong to describe his practice as confined to industrial or constitutional law. It covered the whole gamut of the law so far as the Bar was concerned. It extended from probate actions to the defence of persons charged with murder. If every case in which former  Senator Murphy  appeared, either nisi prius or in the appellate jurisdiction, were examined 2 things would emerge. Firstly, he had a tremendous breadth of clarity of expression of the essential issues of a case, which I would have thought would have been somewhat useful to him on the Bench. Secondly, he had an extraordinary percentage of success- I realise that that of course could be fortuitous. Thirdly, he was completely respected by the judicial tribunals before which he appeared. 
He did not abandon his practice when he became a senator in 1962, and even when he was Leader of the Opposition in the Senate he continued to a degree the practice that he had enjoyed as a leading Sydney silk for many years. That is one of the qualifications for his appointment to this office. The second is this: Those who criticise the appointment-  Senator Scott  is in it, he canot get out of that- would, I venture to suggest, wish that they had the brilliance of mind of Lionel Keith Murphy because he does have a brilliant mind. He demonstrated the brilliance of his mind many times in this chamber in the short period that I have been here. 
I would have thought that it is completely unseemly for persons on the opposite benches who belong to professions to snigger at the delineation of the brilliance of u person in another profession. What of his personal qualities? I leave aside - 
-They did. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Webster)-  Order!  Senator Wheeldon,  I think you should withdraw the comments you have just made. I will leave that matter with you until after I have made the following point: I do not think that the point of order raised by  Senator Wright  should be upheld.  Senator Wright  has made it quite clear that he dissociates himself from the remarks made by  Senator Everett  and I feel that  Senator Everett  can proceed. No point of order was raised about the remark being offensive. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Order! A point of order has been taken by  Senator Chaney  that the remarks made by  Senator Everett  offend him.  Senator Everett,  under those circumstances I ask that you withdraw those remarks. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Order! I think the Senate is being a little pedantic in speaking of the word 'snigger' and what it means. I think the Chair on many occasions could take comments from either side as to what the word may mean and feel offended by it. The only point of order I uphold is that put by  Senator Chaney  and  Senator Missen  who claim that the words offend them and I ask for a withdrawal. 
I accept your ruling, of course, and I withdraw the expression pro tanto in relation to the two honourable senators who claim to be offended. So that no one else will feel offended I want to add the explanation that I did not use the words 'legal profession'. I said 'the professions'. I did so deliberately because as I spoke- I must not use this word 'snigger'- the noise to which I was referring was coming from 2 quarters, one baritone and one contralto, and I therefore deliberately used the word 'professions' to include that member, I understand, of the accountancy profession whose contralto noise had first attracted my attention. I hope that everyone now is not offended. I may be wrong and, if so, I am sorry. 
I must conclude, but before doing so I wish to refer to some of the personal qualities of the former  Senator Murphy  which in my judgment will make him an adornment to the High Court Bench. Above all- this surely is of the essence of the right to be a judge- he has a love for his fellow men. He also has and demonstrates a humanistic approach to social matters. It is significant that, in a television interview this week, when  Mr Murphy  was asked to state what he considered were his best achievements in the past 2 years he put legal aid for needy persons at the forefront of what he considered he had accomplished. He was a kindly and sympathetic man. In the spirit of what was said in 1 964 by  Mr 
Snedden about  Sir Garfield  Barwick and what was said in 1965 by  Sir Garfield  Barwick about  Sir John  Latham, 1 suggest that  Mr Murphy's  very wide experience in public and government matters, rather than being any embarrassment to him, will be of considerable assistance. I believe that in a few years time the Australian public and the legal profession will recognise in  Mr Justice  Murphy the counterpart of Lord Denning of England. For the reasons I have given, I support the amendment. 
I enter this debate only because, having listened to the contributions made in relation to this statement, I feel an obligation to point out 2 dangers that I consider the Senate would be taking upon itself if it passed the amendment in the form in which it has been submitted by  Senator Durack. 
Yes, I know. But the point is that the Opposition has said that it is now going to seek a vote on proposed clause 6b. I feel that since I believe I can see 2 grave dangers I ought to point them out to the Senate before that vote is taken in the hope that it will induce the Opposition to accept the undertaking that has been given by the Minister with regard, in effect, to separate legislation. 
The first danger that I see is in clause 6B. ( 1 ) which gives a definite statutory right to a person who suffers loss or damage to seek compensation and to get it. I imagine that there is a very wide range of insurance policies covering a multiplicity of risks that would be involved in such cases. As members of the Opposition are aware, the true principle is that an insurer is subrogated to the rights of his insured. It would seem to me that there is a danger that paragraph 1 would let insurance companies off the hook. By virtue of the doctrine of subrogation an insurer could say in appropriate cases- I do not say that they would all be appropriate, but where it was appropriate- to his insured: 'You have a statutory right to seek compensation for your loss or damage. As your insurer we are subrogated to that right'. The big danger I see is that with the amendment in this form insurance companies can be relieved of their liabilities on a very large and gross scale. 
-Of course it could be, but to pass it in this form as the Opposition is inviting the Senate by its vote in a few minutes so to do, in my submission would not be responsible for that reason. The second danger that I see is that it would be most unfair to the court to give it the power and to impose on it the duty, in the words of this amendment, to determine by whom any compensation so awarded shall be paid. No guidelines whatsoever are laid down. Would a rather irascible Supreme Court one hot afternoon decide that  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  or someone else should pay the damages? 
I think that the heat sometimes makes anyone irascible. I submit that really this is not proper legislation. That clause would make anyone liable for compensation, even  Senator Greenwood.  I submit quite seriously that this Senate ought not to pass, even in anticipation of having the clause recommitted for something proferred by the Government at a later stage in the debate, such legislation for those 2 reasons. I advance those suggestions with some experience of legislation of a similar kind following the bush fires in Tasmania in 1967. It would be far better if the question of compensation were dealt with fully and properly by a separate statute. I suggest that the issues are really separate. It would be convenient if the whole thing could be dealt with now and got over. But the Minister has said that the Government has not finalised the whole question of its attitude to compensation. When we are considering a case in which there could be tens of thousands of claims, I suggest that it behoves the Senate to ensure that the legislation is watertight. This amendment is full of holes. That is not said critically. In view of the recorded undertaking of the Minister and in view of the fact that it would be desirable, since final decisions have not been made, for this question to be the subject of a special Bill at a later stage, I urge the Senate not to incur the dangers to which I have adverted but to oppose this amendment without in any way suggesting that one is opposed to the principle of compensation. 
I suggest to the Opposition that the amendment now proposed is not really an apt amendment. What the Opposition is attempting to do is to remedy the consequence of the general manager having been removed from the membership of the Darwin Reconstruction Commission. Would it not be much better to delete all the words 'shall be the executive member of the Commission and ', so that the clause would read: 
The General Manager shall, in accordance with the directions of the Commission, conduct the affairs of the Commission. 
I ask honourable senators seriously whether that would not be much better. I do not think it is right to describe the general manager as the executive officer of the Commission. It may well be that there is a secretary of the Commission as well. It seems to me that the suggestion that I have made would meet the Opposition's point and would get over the difficulty of having to describe the general manager by words that I do not think are really apt to describe him. 
-I feel bound to point out that unless the Opposition pays some attention to the consequences of what it is doing it will find itself in more of a mess than Darwin was in. As a result of the Opposition's amendment Clause 28 (3) now reads: 
The General Manager holds office on such terms and conditions (if any), in respect of matters not provided for by this Act as are determined by the Commission. 
That is clear enough. One comes then to the question of his allowances and they, contradictory to clause 28 (3), are to be 'as prescribed'. Just what is the Opposition doing? Can it not be consistent in this matter? Is the GovernorGeneral to prescribe certain allowances under clause 30 (2)? 
-The Opposition does not seek to amend clause 30 (2). So the Commission has the power to determine the terms and conditions of the appointment of the General Manager, which must include the question of allowances, and then the Opposition permits that to be determined by the Governor-General. There could be a great fight between the Governor-General and the Commission over this matter. Cannot the Opposition really seek to amend this legislation in a coherent way instead of creating complete confusion under the influence of cyclone Durack? 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 31 (Leave of absence of General Manager). 
That clause 3 1 stand as printed. 
Question put- 
Extremely briefly,  Mr Chairman,  I think it is important that the attention of the Senate be directed to the fact that sub-clause (2) gives a power to modify only the operation of the Lands Acquisition Act. As such, surely it would be interpreted as going only to procedural matters. We are all aware that the provisions of lands acquisitions statutes throughout the Commonwealth are notoriously tortuous. They provide for lengthy periods for notices and for lengthy periods between the various steps because they are statutes which relate to matters which are not of an emergency character. This matter is of an emergency character. It would be inconceivable that any government would submit for the signature of the Governor-General regulations which in any way fall more harshly than the existing law on the citizens of Darwin. If a government did so it would attract a condign attitude of the Senate by the disallowance of the regulations. I would have thought that the Senate would trust the Government and what the Minister has said as to the policy of the Government because this is a Government measure to benefit the people of Darwin. Mistrust, if constantly read into the Bill by the Opposition, will not breed the most beneficial administration of this legislation that the people of Darwin deserve. I suggest to the Opposition that in this almost penultimate vote on this Bill it should demonstrate a little faith in the Government which has put this Bill forward with commendable speed. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 54 (Application of Public Works Committee Act). 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. It follows the answer he gave to  Senator Mulvihill  yesterday with respect to the Australian Government's attitude to developments in Cyprus. Does the Australian Government regard Archbishop Makarios as head of the legitimate Government of Cyprus? 
-Has the Minister for Manufacturing Industry seen reports that Nylex Corporation Ltd, one of Australia's largest plastics groups, claims that it might not be able to achieve what it terms an acceptable return on investment without government aid? Is he aware that the biggest shareholders in Nylex Corporation include Imperial Chemical Industries of Australia Ltd and the Australian Mutual Provident Society? Can he inform the Senate whether there is any Government sympathy for spending public moneys on assisting such large industrial and commercial concerns? 
-As we very seriously debate a measure, the fate of which is obvious, I think it would be fair to say that throughout the cities of the nation at this moment, in the country towns, in the ships at sea round the coast, and indeed throughout the nation, the people are waiting with bated breath to know whether or not they are going to have a right of appeal to the Privy Council retained. I can imagine the sadness with which the persons in the clubs and the hotels, on the bowling greens or wherever they are treat this matter. If you were to ask 1000 people in the streets of this nation whether appeals to the Privy Council should be retained- perhaps one might put it in a little more dignified way and ask whether appeals to Her Majesty the Queen in Council should be retained- half of them would stare at you and ask you what this august body was, and 99 per cent of the remainder would say: 'So what?' So let us not take ourselves too seriously in this matter. Let us get down to fundamentals. 
The fundamental issue that arises in this debate is simply whether the Opposition is sincere in opposing this Bill but, as I understand it, agreeing to the next Bill which will abolish appeals from the High Court to the Privy Council, or whether the Opposition is simply using these 2 pieces of legislation, particularly this one, as a vehicle for a political attack upon the Government. That is the point at issue. The Opposition cannot have it both ways so far as the intrinsic merits of this legislation are concerned because the Opposition has said in another place, and again tonight, that it considers that the High Court should be the final court of appeal within Australia. This Bill that we are debating sets out to produce that result, and either it produces it in a manner that is constitutionally valid or it does not. If the Bill is constitutionally invalid- in other words, if there has been an invasion of a legal right- then it achieves nothing because one does not doubt that action would be taken by at least the State of Queensland and probably other States to challenge the validity of it in the High Court of Australia. The Bill either stands up or it does not. 
I would have thought that if the Opposition was sincere in saying that appeals to the Privy Council ought to be abolished, that the High Court ought to be the final court of appeal within Australia, then it would have supported this Bill albeit expressing whatever reservations it might have as to its constitutional validity. That, to my mind, would have been a logical approach, but that is not the approach of the Opposition. It advances, through  Senator Greenwood,  4 arguments why this legislation should be defeated. Each one of those arguments ignores the purpose of the Bill, ignores the intrinsic merits of the Bill and ignores the real issue which is whether appeals to the Privy Council should be abolished or the present system should be retained. Let me examine the 4 reasons given by the Opposition through  Senator Greenwood.  He said that the Government is acting in a matter which is not one of Commonwealth interest. I think I quote his words precisely. 
-Not a matter of Commonwealth concern. Is it not a matter of concern to the Government of this nation what the rights of appeal of its citizens should be? When  Senator Greenwood  used that as an argument he was using it in the context of a division of constitutional and legal authority. He was not using the argument in relation to what ought to concern governments, and that is the real and true interests of its citizens. As I have said before, if this legislation transcends constitutional power it will be struck down by the High Court in the proper and normal way. If it does not transcend constitutional and legal power, then it achieves a purpose that the Opposition says it wishes to see achieved. How can that be in any way logical? 
The second argument advanced by  Senator Greenwood  was that it was not proper to approach the Queen cap in hand. I repeat- Not proper to approach the Queen cap in hand. Why did the Australian Parliament adopt the Statute of Westminster in 1942, section 4 of which specifically states that there is provision for request and consent type legislation? Why did it do that if to invoke that jurisdiction is so unseemly? I thought that was the poorest argument of all. The third argument was that it would be an abuse of the Statute of Westminster to follow this procedure. I think the Government has to face up to the situation that was created in 1942 when the then Attorney-General,  Dr Evatt,  made certain comments. I admit the things that  Senator Greenwood  attributed to him tonight. I face up to that situation so far as I personally am concerned on the simple basis that more than 30 years since that statement was made we face a completely different situation. The war during which  Dr Evatt  spoke the relevant words has concluded and we have had since then more than a quarter of a century of nation building in Australia. If the argument of  Senator Greenwood  is correct, that the Government is virtually estopped from doing this because of what  Dr Evatt  said in 1942, it means that in perpetuity section 4 of the Statute of Westminister could not be used in this particular area. I reject that argument. I submit that it cannot be binding on all governments in perpetuity that such a restriction of the application of section 4 of the Statute of Westminster should be held. 
The fourth argument that he used was that the Government's action was creating a tremendously difficult position for the British Government. I would have thought that in view of the troubles which beset Britain at this stage, Britain would not be concerned very much about this matter and, as the second reading speech in this chamber indicated, there have been recent discussions with the Prime Minister of Great Britain. So on those 4 tenuous grounds the Opposition seeks to defeat something which it says it would like to see if a different procedure were adopted. Sophistry? Good heavens, there ought to be a stronger word for it, and there is, but I cannot use it. 
Let me make certain things perfectly clear. Since I have been involved in politics I have been in favour of the abolition of appeals to the Privy 
Council. On 21 December 1972 I came to Canberra and discussed the matter with the new Attorney-General, then  Senator Murphy.  I returned to Tasmania and initiated a proposal that the Tasmanian Government would support the abolition of appeals to the Privy Council. That proposal was adopted and I made a public statement to that effect. I leave the matter at that because there is complete consistency in my attitude that irrespective of what advantage may be taken for legal and political reasons of a situation which exists at a particular time- that is a political decision- nevertheless it is wrong that in 1975 we should continue this archaic system. 
The framers of the Constitution had the question of the ambit of appeals to the Privy Council firmly in their minds. The matter arose specifically so far as they were concerned under what became section 74 of the Constitution. I think all honourable senators know the history of the dispute that took place between the representatives of Australia and of the British Government in relation to that clause but the persistence and the arguing skill of the Australian delegation, particularly that of Deakin, prevailed and section 74 preserved the final original draft in relation to this matter. The framers of the Constitution saw that there should be limitations even in 1900 with respect to appeals to the Privy Council, and so they provided for limitation in 2 respects. The first was that there should be no appeal from a decision of the High Court on a matter involving the limits inter se of the constitutional powers of the Commonwealth, and those of any State or States without the certificate of the High Court. The second manner in which limitation was imposed was the provision in the final paragraph of section 74 that Parliament could make laws limiting the matters in which special leave of appeal from the High Court to  Her  Majesty in Council could be asked pursuant to the exercise of the royal prerogative. The High Court took a significant step, I think it was in 1 943, when it decided that it would not be bound by decisions of the Privy Council. Since then there has been a continuing indication that the appropriate final court - 
-Yes, in 1943. 
I am told: Certainly not'. Well, we will have a look at the report. 
We will have a look at the report. I may make a personal explanation. I think I should be able to make one either way after that interjection. Since 1942 when the Statute of Westminster was adopted and other developments by the High Court a situation has been reached where the High Court is regarded throughout the common law world as one of the most competent courts that any common law system has ever known. One should perhaps add, in view of contemporary criticism: Despite the fact that 6 Attorneys-General have been appointed to the High Court from the Australian Parliament. 
Having regard to the history of the existence of the right of appeal to the Privy Council, both through the medium of State supreme courts and pursuant to section 74 of the Constitution, today we are faced with a completely different situation from that which existed in 1900. I wonder how many persons not connected with the law realise that it is not an appeal in the completely pure sense of other appeals but the board, as it is called, ends up saying that Her Majesty will be humbly advised whatever way the case goes. Although that is not generally appreciated, do we want to perpetuate it? We come back to the difference between the Opposition and the Government on this issue. The Opposition say: No, we do not want to perpetuate it, but it has to be done another way'. When the Opposition say that it makes it very clear that it is concerned only with political considerations. For those reasons, because the matter was fully canvassed in the House of Representatives and because it has been canvassed, to some degree, tonight I do not think it is necessary to labour the point. 
The simple question is this: Should appeals to the Privy Council both from State supreme courts and generally right across the board be abolished? The Government says yes and the Opposition says yes. The second point is that the Government has chosen this vehicle- the Bill before the Senate- as the means of achieving that common objective. If the Government's Bill is constitutionally and legally valid, then the result desired by both the Government and the Opposition has been achieved. If the Bill is not constitutionally valid, then, as I said earlier, it is struck down and the Government's aim is not achieved. Surely the issue is extremely simple and it ought not to be bound up with political considerations. 
I sense that the Opposition's attitudealthough not expressly stated by  Senator Greenwoodis  really another manifestation of its attitude to the Government in relation to all matters in which there is some interplay of power between the Australian Governments and the State governments. The Liberal Party States at least have taken the view that wherever that situation arises the measure will be opposed, regardless of the intrinsic merits of it and putting the matter purely on that narrow political level. In those circumstances I submit that the complaints of the Opposition in relation to this legislation are seen in their true perspective. They are political complaints. They are the manifestation of the difference between the Government and the Opposition in relation to matters generally as between the Australian Government and the States. They do not bear on the essential provisions of the Bill. They do not bear on the purpose the Bill sets out to achieve which, as I have said, is a common purpose as far as the Government and the Opposition are concerned. 
One could go on deeply into the legal issues which lie at the heart of this matter, as did some speakers in another place. I do not take the view that it is proper to debate the constitutional legality of measures at any length. Of course I concede the right of anyone to draw attention to these matters, but I do not propose to debate them at any length. It is clear that although contrary views have been taken by others over recent years the Government has been advised that it is constitutionally proper for it to submit this legislation to the Parliament. In other words, there is power to do what this Bill sets out to do. No government can proceed on any other basis. If, as I have said, it turns out that that advice is not correct- of course, this would not be the first time- the legislation will fall. 
I would have thought that the Opposition would have shown its sincerity in its expressed desire to abolish appeals to the Privy Council if it had put its opposition to this measure more on the basis of constitutional legal power if it wanted to oppose, or if it had taken the alternative course of saying: 'We support this Bill because it achieves the result which we wish to be achieved. We have reservations or doubts as to whether there is power to do so. We are content for those doubts to be resolved in the proper forum of the land'. I would have thought that that would have been the proper way to have done this if the Opposition were sincere and if it did not wish merely to make the debate on this Bill a vehicle for repeating its criticism of the Government in relation to the issue of CommonwealthState relations. But the Opposition has not taken that view and so this Bill is doomed. 
The practical result is that we will still have a right of appeal from State supreme courts to the 
Privy Council. Let me give just one instance in which that right was exercised recently. It is within my knowledge. I submit that when the facts are known they will indicate that this right of appeal from the State supreme courts should be done away with as quickly as possible. It was a case concerning two very equal contenders, namely, the Hydro-Electric Commission of Tasmania and an 11 -year-old boy who had been injured quite severely when he strayed on to the Commission's property. The issue was whether he was a trespasser or an invitee, or what was he? The matter began in the Tasmanian Supreme Court. It went through the full range of the Tasmanian Supreme Court and eventually reached the High Court where learned judgments were delivered which indicated very clearly the measure of liability of the Hydro-Electric Commission. The damages were of the order of $1 1,000, if I am correct. Not content with that, the Hydro-Electric Commission - 
-Oh yes, it did. The Hydro-Electric Commission decided that a little dose of the Privy Council was what this trespassing boy needed, so off to London they went. 
Fortunately, wiser counsel prevailed when there was a change of government and the Hydro-Electric Commission was persuaded to put its very big file away, pay the damages, read the High Court's judgment again if it was in doubt as to what the measure of its liability generally was, and get on with the business of generating hydro-electric power. That is just one example that I can give. It was said in the debate in another place that it is only the legal profession, the wealthy and the conservatives who are interested in retaining appeals to the Privy Council. I do not associate myself with that view because I would have to put  Senator Greenwood  into one of those categories. I would not be sure which one to put him into; therefore I am not going to run the risk of offending him. 
-No, of course they are not in that category. I was quoting what was said in another place and I do not necessarily agree that they are the only persons- I was about to say this,  Senator Missen-  who are interested in appeals. But since  Senator Missen  interjects with a somewhat emotive reference to convicted murderers I would answer him by saying that his own Party agrees that the High Court of Australia should be the final court of appeal in all cases, be they murder cases or otherwise, so what is the relevance of the interjection? 

 -If Senator Missen wishes to make any challenge to what I have said I would urge him to read the Hansard record of it because I merely quoted what was said in another place.  Senator Missen  now accepts that, so that little issue is disposed of. I simply quoted the case of the Hydro-Electric Commission and the 1 1 -year-old boy to indicate how heavily the scales are weighted in favour of the strong and the wealthy in this issue and how disadvantaged the ordinary citizen is when his opponent says: Let us go along to the Privy Council'. It is true that in that case there is no doubt that the HydroElectric Commission would have had to pay all the costs in any event if the appeal had gone on, but that was not the point. Of necessity, the case had dragged on for some years. This boy had been severely injured, his parents were battlers and the further delay involved in invoking this century-old jurisdiction, as it is, would have been personally intolerable to that family. 
Looking at the cases that have gone before the Privy Council from Australia in the last 10 years, are there any that could not have been adequately dealt with finally in Australia? The answer must be no. Therefore, why keep this right of appeal? If there is a valid measure which gets rid of the right of appeal, why does the Opposition not support it instead of adopting the double dealing standard- I do not say that offensively, but it is a double dealing standard- of saying: We would love to do it, but you have got on the wrong tram'? That is what the Opposition is saying. I do not labour it any further. I want to say that this measure, if it is agreed to and if it is legally valid, will effectuate a purpose which I personally have always supported, and have done so publicly. I support the measure. 
-The Senate is debating the Superior Court of Australia Bill which expresses the thinking of both the Opposition and the Government at various stages over a period of 12 years. But the remarkable fact is that the present Opposition, which so vehemently opposes this Bill, espoused its principles over a period of 6 years. I will deal with them in a little more detail later. The essential purpose of the Bill is to create a coherent judicial system for the administration of justice at a national level. I was very pleased this morning to hear  Senator Greenwood  refer to his aspiration, and I use his words, 'for the evolution of a national legal system'. This Bill does just that. The Bill provides for the establishment of a Superior Court of Australia, a Superior Court of record beneath the High Court of Australia but exercising with that court the jurisdiction which the Constitution describes as the judicial power of the Commonwealth. 
Let me say first of all what this Bill does not do. The Bill has no sinister import. It is not a manifestation of so-called centralism. It is not an attack on the powers of State courts, powers which in Federal matters they have fortuitously held for three-quarters of a century because they existed at the time of Federation. More particularly, the Bill is not a sudden exemplification of Labor Party philosophy. As I have said, in principle and in much of its detail it is an application of Liberal Party philosophy expressed as long ago as 1 962 by the Liberal Party and embodied in the Liberal Party's Bill when in Government in 1968. 
Some critics of this Bill have failed to realise, so far as the exercise of the judicial power of the Commonwealth is concerned, the difference between the situation which existed nearly threequarters of a century ago and the position today when Australian Government laws bestride our national life and inevitably, whatever government is in power, will continue to do so. Let us go back to the position at the time of Federation as we see it delineated in the Constitution, the document which the Opposition embraces and for which it expresses reverence when it suits it and when it does not suit it it damns with faint praise or discards. Section 7 1 of the Constitution recognises that Commonwealth judicial power would be exercised in 3 streams of jurisdiction: Firstly, the High Court of Australia; secondly such other Federal courts as the Parliament created; and thirdly such other courts as it invests with Federal jurisdiction. As we are aware, that second stream would include the Bankruptcy Court and the Industrial Court. Section 75 and 76 of the Constitution went on to provide that the High Court should have or should be capable of being invested by the Parliament with jurisdiction in all the matters which are now set out in clause 19 of the Bill before the Senate as the subject of the original jurisdiction of the Superior Court of Australia. But section 77 then went on to provide that with respect to any of those matters this Parliament could make laws: 
Defining the jurisdiction of any federal court other than the High Court: 
Defining the extent to which the  jusidiction  of any federal court shall be exclusive of that which belongs to or is invested in the courts of the States: ( iii.) Investing any court of a State with Federal jurisdiction. 
With regard to the latter power it is significant that Quick and Garran in their commentaries on the Constitution indicate their judgment as to the comparative temporary basis for the exercise of that jurisdiction. I refer to pages 803 and 804 where the expression 'the early years of the Commonwealth' is used. On page 726 a similar notion is expressed. So no one can say that this Bill transcends either the letter or the spirit of the Constitution or that its possible desirability was not envisaged at the time of Federation. It was natural in 1 900 for the Commonwealth Government to be given power to invest State courts with federal jurisdiction. Those courts already existed and the arrangement was one of convenience to which no one would then have objected. 
It was also natural and convenient for this type of jurisdiction to continue for many years, but the situation is now very different. The Australian Government has emerged, even before December 1972, as the initiator of a large body of legislation which has a paramount effect on the lives of Australian citizens. It ought to be a corollary of that situation that the Australian Parliament should pass legislation, as this Bill seeks to do, establishing a national judicial system, which  Senator Greenwood  was espousing before the suspension of the sitting for lunch, which would be, of course, beneath the High Court but would embrace existing federal judicial institutions which will administer those national laws. My submission to the Senate is that failure to do so is to perpetuate a system whereby national legislation has no adequate national judicial system to support it. Only the historical accident of colonial-type judicatures can be used to oppose legislation of this sort and we ought not to perpetuate that historical accident. 
Before the suspension of the sitting for lunch today the Senate was regaled, if that is the correct word, by the hyperbole of  Senator Wright  in opposing this legislation. He used strong expressions such as 'major mistake', 'damaging in the extreme', and 'a monster'. This afternoon he used the expressions 'dangerous and mischievous' and 'the uttermost rot'. I think I have distilled the main descriptions that he used in relation to this legislation. 
I noted it. I must have misheard you. We have an independent abritrator in the person of  Senator Hall  who indicates that  Senator Wright  did use that expression, but that is by the way. The first 4 expressions are sufficiently damning of the  speaker  in the context in which I seek to reply to him.  Senator Wright,  in an attempt to get out of the argument that he expected we were doing no more than applying what had been dear to the heart of the Liberal Party for a period of 6 years, referred to the Liberal Party's waste paper baskets and said that we had taken this Bill from such a position. I am glad to hear a public acknowledgement that the 
Liberal Party has policy waste paper baskets. I would have thought it would need a lot of big ones for its discarded or discredited policies. 
-That interjection will not divert me from going back to the address which the then Attorney-general, the Honourable Nigel Bowen, now Chief Judge in Equity in New South Wales - 
-Oh yes, it is on the list. I wish to quote at length from the address that the Honourable Nigel Bowen gave to the Legal Convention in Adelaide in 1967, because it exposes as mere humbug the extravagant language that has been used by  Senator Wright  during the debate.  Mr Bowen  said: 
I am to talk this afternoon on 'Some Aspects of the Commonwealth Superior Court Proposal'. Printed copies of a Statement which 1 made in the House of Representatives on 18 May 1967, have been circulated. This Statement announces the Government's decision to establish the new court and gives details of its proposed structure .and jurisdiction. 
He is referring, of course, to the Superior Court of Australia. He continued: 
The idea of establishing such a court has been under discussion in Australia for some time. It first came into the realm of practical politics when  Sir Kenneth  Bailey, then Solicitor-General, speaking for  Sir Garfield  Barwick, then Attorney-General, at the Thirteenth Legal Convention in Hobart in January 1963, announced that  Sir Garfield  had Cabinet authority to design a new federal court with a view to consideration by Cabinet for approval for legislative action '. 
At that Convention a paper on the subject was presented by  Mr M.  H. Byers Q.C. and  Mr P.  B. Toose Q.C. and was discussed by the delegates. Following on that Convention the Law Council of Australia and its constituent bodies gave detailed consideration to the matter. The Law Council appointed a Committee which made a report on 6 August 1963, and a copy of this was made available to the Government. The New South Wales Bar Association submitted a separate report direct to the Government. In 1964 an article by  Sir Garfield  Barwick on the proposed new court was published in the Federal Law Review. 
Although there were some speakers at the Convention in January 1963 who opposed the creation of a new court, there was a broad consensus of opinion revealed in the reports of the Law Council and its constituent bodies that such a court should be established. The differences revealed were differences of opinion as to the structure and jurisdiction of the court. This is not to say that there are not still some lawyers in Australia who are opposed to the idea. Professor Sawer comes to mind as perhaps the most vocal opponent. 
These are the pregnant words: 
May I say that all the arguments which have been advanced against the idea have been carefully weighed and considered along with the arguments in favour of it. A decision has been taken to establish the court. That question is now academic. 
In a period of 6 years all the arguments against the scheme which is embraced in this Bill were considered by the then Liberal-Country Party Government, now the Opposition. They were all discarded and a decision was made to proceed with the Bill. As we know, a Bill was introduced in, I think, 1968.  Senator Wright  today has relied very strongly on the views, which naturally enough will evoke respect, of the late  Sir Owen  Dixon. The Liberal Party paid scant regard to those views during the period between 1962 and 1968. It discarded all the arguments against a Superior Court. Where is the consistency in the Liberal Party approach to important matters such as this? When one looks at the history of the matter and considers how the then Liberal Government between 1962 and 1968 conceived and fostered the idea and finally introduced a Bill, where does  Senator Wright  stand with the extravagant language that he used this morning? Where did he stand between 1962 and 1968? Did he oppose the Bill in the councils of the Liberal Party? If he did, I have not heard of it. He may well have done. I suggest that puts the criticism of the Bill in its true perspective. The Bill was espoused by the Opposition for 6 years and has been espoused by the Government for a greater period, but now the Opposition says that it proposes to defeat this Bill. 
I revert to the Constitution. I ask the question: Wherein does this Bill fail to satisfy the situation that was envisaged by the Constitution? The simple answer is that it does not so fail. I proceed to another aspect. I ask: Wherein does it fail to satisfy the proper criteria for a national judicial system, a system which, as I have said,  Senator Greenwood  was espousing this morning? I think one could state four such criteria. First, the court should demonstratably be a true reflection of accepted principles of justice. The history of Federal courts in this country is a very proud one. The High Court, the Industrial Court and the Bankruptcy Court have, I suggest, been shining examples of what a court should properly be. So, that criterion will be satisfied if" history is repeated. The second criterion is that such a court should not be fragmented by the delegation of judicial authority to some hundreds of judges and magistrates throughout the nation. This Bill achieves that. 
The third criterion is that the court should be so constructed that it is capable of being publicly seen as a coherent judicial body with a capacity for uniformity of approach not only to great issues affecting the liberty of individuals and the quality of their lives but also to the resolution of issues between citizens and the Government and between citizen and citizen. The fourth criterion 1 would postulate is that in the interpretation of national laws it should reflect within the area of judicial power the proud spirit of a nation in which justice and its expression are paramount. It is through the judicial expression of that spirit that nations become strong. I submit strongly to the Senate that this Bill satisfies all those criteria. 
I share the view expressed by way of interjection by  Senator James  McClelland, the Minister for Manufacturing Industry who represents the Attorney-General in this chamber, that the analogy drawn between what this Bill really does and the American judicial system is a false one. I suggest that nothing in this Bill takes the situation anything like to the position that exists in America. If I am wrong in that I would like to be shown where I am wrong by reference to specific provisions. No doubt  Senator Missen  will seek to do that. 
The point the Government makes is that this Bill seeks to cohere the jurisdiction of a multiplicity of courts which in a period of threequarters of a century have come to exercise jurisdiction in Federal matters. Let us have a look at the list of courts. We have the Federal Court of Bankruptcy, the Industrial Court, the Family Court- established under the Family Law Bill as this Senate agreed to it; it is not law yet- 6 separate State supreme courts, the supreme courts of the 2 Territories and a host of courts too numerous to count, such as courts of summary jurisdiction which exercise judicial powers under laws passed by the Australian Parliament, and courts which have to be taken, according to a decision of the High Court, as they are found for the purpose of the exercise by them of Federal jurisdiction. Looking at that heavy crop of courts one could say that there is no administrative nexus between any of them. There is no judicial comity between the judges and the magistrates who comprise such courts. The courts do not project any national judicial image and the situation is that, except for the Federal courts, namely the High Court, the Bankruptcy Court and the Industrial Court, we still have a 19th century colonial type basis for determining judicial matters arising under Federal law. 
It is more than a decade since the Opposition, when in government, set out to end that situation, but regrettably it has changed its mind. Let us look in summary at what the Bill achieves. Time does not permit me to go into the details of the Bill, but I noticed this morning that  Senator Wright  referred to the divisions of the court. That is purely a simple administrative purpose. It is not necessary that all divisions be created to begin with. We already have three of them if we include the Family Division, the Bankruptcy and Insolvency Division and the Industrial Division. We already have those divisions, but they are separate courts. I would summarise under 5 headings what this Bill seeks to achieve. Firstly, it is designed to create a coherent judicial system on a national basis in relation to matters which arise because of the exercise by this Parliament of its legislative powers. Secondly, the scheme envisaged by the Bill is cohesive; it is not divisive. Thirdly, the Bill is nationally orientated and does not perpetuate the existing system whereby a multiplicity of State and Territory courts exercise jurisdiction in relation to Federal matters. Fourthly, it paves the way for the development at a level underneath the High Court of a body or system of settled law which is peculiarly national in its basic character because such a system of law stems from the interpretation and the application of individual statutes passed by this Parliament. Fifthly, it will take all Australian citizens- I emphasise that we are all citizens of Australia- along a path of even-handed justice. Since it is some time since the former AttorneyGeneral, the then  Senator Murphy,  gave the introductory speech when this Bill was introduced in this chamber, I wish to refer briefly to what he said. He said: 
There are complaints from all over Australia about costs and delays in court proceedings, and the need to modernise procedures. The content of these complaints varies from State to State. Some States are better than others. New South Wales has only recently made an extensive overhaul of its judicial system, in the process of bringing in reforms adopted elsewhere a century ago. 
That is a reference, of course, to the imperial judicature Acts of 1875. It took New South Wales a century almost to catch up with that judicial development.  Senator Murphy  continued: 
I do not want to single out any State for particular criticism, but to highlight the fact that laws made by this Parliament and intended to apply uniformly throughout Australia do not in fact do so because of the difference injudicial systems and procedures. 

 Senator Murphy then gave a number of examples and continued: 
The Government does not believe that the existing system, under which there may be such an uneven application throughout Australia of the rights and obligations under laws made by this Parliament or between the citizen and the Australian Government, should be allowed to continue. 
That is the stand that the Government takes on this Bill. It wants to see it the vehicle for evenhanded justice throughout the nation. Can anyone deny the propriety of such a goal? Let me deal a little further with the opposition to this Bill expressed by  Senator Wright  earlier today. I have said that he based virtually his whole case on the views expressed by  Mr Justice  Dixon, later  Sir Owen  Dixon, which had so little charm for the Liberal Party when in government that it discarded them and, after all the opposition to this Bill that could be raised over a period of 6 years had been sifted, the then Attorney-General  Mr Justice  Bowen was able to say that all the objections had been examined, there was nothing in any of them and the Government was going ahead. The argument is, in his words, academic. 
Finally, as far as  Senator Wright  is concerned, if we were not dealing with such a serious matter it would be comical. He rested his opposition partly on the fact that, in his words, a system of justice ought to be simple, prompt and economic. Those words came from the mouth of a senator who only last night was opposing Government legislation to abolish appeals from State Supreme Courts to the Privy Council. The person who could utter that last night now advocates a simple, prompt and economic system of justice. The Government would join with him in seeking that as a goal, but the Government says that this Bill, far from being a vehicle which will lead to the duplication and the delays of the American system, is, when it is analysed, a pretty simple Bill. It takes away in some respects jurisdiction from the High Court, a Court which for very many years has been acknowledged to be grossly overburdened. It gets rid of a multiplicity of State and Territory courts which exist at the moment and it coheres these in one court beneath the High Court, divided if necessary into 6 divisions. 
I have endeavoured to show that the court as provided for in this legislation satisfies the accepted criteria as to what courts should do. I have established that it is not in any way inconsistent with the Constitution, and I think that I have established by my recounting of the history of this matter in the Liberal Party that it certainly cannot be said to be philosophically unacceptable to that Party. Why then the sudden volte face by the Liberal Party? Six years is a long time in which to cherish a concept such as this, develop it, and finally let it emerge in the form of a Bill introduced into the House of Representatives. It is inconceivable that the judicial system created by this Bill can be evil when it was cherished for so long by the Liberal Party which now, through  Senator Wright  and others, oppose it. 
I support the Bill because I believe that it is a manifestation of an inevitable trend, is consistent with the Constitution and will project a national judicial spirit. It is a Bill which ought to commend itself to all senators and which at one stage did commend itself to all senators with the possible exception of  Senator Hall  and new senators since the introduction of the Bill. The situation has now changed. I repeat what I said last night. In so much of its opposition to Government legislation the present Opposition seems to show a degree of paranoia. Every time a piece of legislation is introduced which has some impingement, be it great or small, on the so-called rights or so-called powers of the States the Opposition raises a cry and opposes the legislation. It has a phobia in relation to that issue which is illustrated in its opposition to this Bill this afternoon. The phobia ought not to be allowed to obscure the basic and intrinsic merits of this legislation, which is very close in concept to the view of the Liberal Party in the last decade, if not now. For the reasons I have given I strongly support the Bill. 
-Has the Minister for Manufacturing Industry had discussions recently with representatives of the Electrolytic Zinc Co. of Australasia Ltd and with union officers concerning the proposed dismissal of nearly 400 employees at its works at Risdon, Tasmania? What is the principal reason for the company's proposed action as given to the Minister? What is the current stage of the negotiations between the Australian Government and the company? 
-Has the Minister representing the Minister for Housing and Construction seen the latest statistics released by the Reserve Bank of Australia indicating a continuation in the month of January of the large increases in the money supply that occurred in the December quarter of last year? If so, can he advise the Senate of the effect which this situation should have on the availability of housing finance? 
I direct myself primarily to Appropriation Bill (No. 4) because it is the Bill which contains the appropriation to implement the Australian Government's promise to Tasmania to assist it in a very material and generous way in relation to the damage caused by the Tasman Bridge disaster of 5 January this year. 
-Senator Townley interjects because these proceedings are being broadcast, and that perhaps - 
I am speaking because I wanted to speak on this Bill and I was asked to speak. I ask  Senator Townley  to contrast the generous treatment provided by the Federal Government in this case with what happened in 1967 in relation to the bush fires. I do not think any detail is necessary. When the bridge disaster occurred on the night of 5 January the response of the Australian Government was immediate and generous. In the course of the next few days communications were received from the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  who at that time was overseas, and visits were made by the Acting Prime Minister,  Dr Cairns,  the Minister for transport,  Mr Jones,  and the Minister for Defence,  Mr Barnard,  who spent several days in Tasmania consulting with the Tasmanian Government. The result is the first provision towards the sum of $13m, which is not a final figure, contained in this Bill. 
I want to refer to the misstatement of the Opposition in the House of Representatives in relation to what the Australian Government was doing. The honourable member for Flinders,  Mr Lynch,  said that so far as Tasmania was concerned the purpose of this appropriation was to fund the rebuilding of the Tasman Bridge. That puts the matter far too narrowly. Both the Treasurer  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  in the House of Representatives and the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Wriedt)  properly expressed the arrangement that has been made between the Australian Government and the Tasmanian Government in these words: 
The Australian Government has undertaken to meet the full costs incurred by the State and its authorities on agreed measures associated with or attributable to the bridge collapse, including assistance to the state in respect of the investigation of a proposal for a further permanent bridge across the Derwent River. 
I shall refer to that in a moment. I did not intend referring to this matter but since  Senator Townley  seems very vocal let me remind him that towards the end of last year a momentous event took place so far as the Opposition Parties were concerned. They appointed a shadow Minister for Tasmania. I regret to say that from all the inquiries I have made over a long period of weeks it has not been able to be established that the Liberal shadow Minister for Tasmania showed the slightest concern in relation to that supreme tragedy that happened on the night of 5 January. 
Who is he? He is a member from New South Wales. One of the good things that I hope will come out of the tragedy will be the construction, much earlier than otherwise would have happened, of a second bridge across the Derwent. I do not think there would be any dispute that this is a form of communication which is badly needed. It was therefore refreshing to Tasmanians on 24 January of this year to read the joint statement of the Premier of Tasmania,  Mr Reece,  and of the  Deputy  Prime Minister,  Dr Cairns,  which indicated that a joint expert ad hoc body would be established in order to plan a second bridge, to determine the location of it and to determine the type. That body has since been set up and the lastest public announcement that I read in relation to it was that it was expected to report within 3 months. 
It seemed to those who took an interest in this practical matter that it was essential that agreement be reached at a very early stage between the Tasmanian Government and the Australian Government with respect to the location of a second bridge and the type of bridge. Before the announcement of 24 January there had already developed political disputation in relation to both the type and location of the bridge. That political disputation was destroyed by the announcement of the Tasmanian Premier and of the Deputy Prime Minister of Australia. One would hope that within the declared time of not more than 3 months southern Tasmanians will know what is proposed in relation to a second bridge, .the funding of which virtually has been promised as the responsibility of the Australian Government. That is one good thing that I hope will come out of this disaster. 
The aid promised in this Bill is aid of a financial kind. It is material aid. The point I want to stress to the Senate tonight is that from mixing with those affected, from talking with those affected and those who try to help those affected, it is clear that the predominant problems of the residents in the area affected are not essentially materia] or financial but personal. They involve human emotions; they involve human happiness; and they involve the quality of life of some 35,000 men, women and children in or near the affected area. Their life style has been extremely affected. Their employment has been affected. Their domestic situation has been affected. Their social relations have been affected. In nearly every way in which human beings express themselves in life some effect is apparent. The situation is very different from that of the bush fires of 1967. In 1967 the situation got progressively better immediately after the fires had ceased. But in this case the situation must, for a long time I am afraid, get progressively worse. That realisation has caused me to consult with medical authorities who are in touch with persons affected. The point that these medical authorities have made to me is this: In the first place they say that in any community at any time when things are normal about 15 per cent of people suffer from emotional disorder to some degree sufficient to produce symptoms such as anxiety, mood changes, insomnia and a variety of bodily complaints, but only a very small proportion of that 15 per cent reaches a degree of severity in which special care is necessary. When one adds to that potentiality the effect on some 35 000 persons of the complete disruption of their lives because of this disaster one has a much greater area of difficulty. 
We would be blinding ourselves if we thought that the mere provision of funds is a sufficient or full solution to the problems that eastern shore residents face. Medical authorities with whom I have conferred advise me that a number of short term effects are already apparent from the situation. By short term the authorities mean up to 3 months. The short terms effects have been listed by medical authorities with whom I have conferred under 3 main headings. The first is a perceived feeling of threat of isolation leading to apprehension producing depression among the passive and irritability and aggression among the more psychoactive. Secondly, a result which is already apparent in certain cases is paranoia in which every disability consequent upon the altered life style of a number of those people is perceived as a further threat to the individual's ability to function. The third pretty obvious result is physical fatigue and reduced work performance. 
Of course 1 am referring to some of the people on the eastern shore. 
-Senator Wright's inane interjection just shows how ignorant he is of what has really happened. The Shadow Minister for Tasmania ought to have told him. My information comes not from personal observation and personal contact but from medical authorities who are extremely worried about the situation.  Senator Wright  does himself and his reputation no good by laughing at a situation which is tragic. 
If  Senator Townley  cares to listen he will hear. The medical authorities have taken it so seriously that they have submitted a formal official report which ought to put the inanity of the interjectors into proper perspective. The long term effects, going on over two to three years possibly- but no one knowswill be extremely severe in some cases. I make the plea to the Australian Government that it ought to take the opportunity afforded by the occurrence of a number of natural disasters to evaluate the emotional effects upon people of natural disasters of the magnitude that regrettably are becoming more frequent in Australia. Five natural disasters are referred to in the legislation, namely the disasters in Victoria, New South Wales and Queensland and, we can add to that, Tasmania and Darwin. We remember the floods in Queensland early last year. It is not just a question of a generous government deciding that certain material disadvantages will be repaired. If the Government stops at that point I would not think it is fully discharging its responsibility. 
Therefore I suggest to the Senate- I propose to follow it up with the Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham)-  that the National Hospitals and Health Services Commission commission a study of the emotional morbidity which is the sequel of natural disasters of the severity and the scale that Australians in Darwin and southern Tasmania have unfortunately experienced in recent months. 
I believe not. I am aware that responsible medical authorities will represent this matter to the Australian Government. I have been told that. I do not believe it is available elsewhere. A very brief attempt was made in 1967 in Tasmania after the bushfires to go somewhere along the line. If  Senator Baume  is able to point to some properly researched survey of this nature I would be grateful to be informed of it. I believe that there are many areas for investigation and evaluation by a proper survey of the type to which I have referred. One of them is the spirit in which administrative decisions are made. Another is emergent group reaction and individual responses. A third is the success or otherwise of rehabilitative procedures. I believe that such an evaluation of medico-social sequelae could be of substantial national benefit especially to those charged with the restoration of communities to normal life. I hope that the Government will take this opportunity, through the Health and Hospitals Commission, to have a broad national analysis to determine the extent of medical-social pathology consequent upon natural disaster. 
When one is dealing with a measure of this kind which provides generous financial help to repair damage, the tendency is to forget that disasters concern people. People are primarily affected by disaster. They are affected in a very wide variety of ways. Money can alleviate some of the disabilities from which people suffer as a result of disasters, but for total rehabilitation much more than money is needed. I list some of the things that are needed. I mention firstly an area which I think is extremely important, and that is that there must be among the public servants dealing with persons who have been victims of disasters of this magnitude a sensitive and an understanding attitude. That, I believe, is essential. Secondly, I think there should be a responsible approach by the media which ought to eschew sensationalism. Thirdly, I believe that political parties should appreciate that people do not respond to public political disputation of the inane type in which  Senator Townley  would indulge by way of interjection when the real issue is their own emotional distress. That is the point with which they are concerned. They are not concerned that persons are endeavouring to make cheap political capital out of the tragedy of others. That is not the mark of a responsible member of Parliament. 
The fourth matter that I think could well be considered in this national survey which 1 suggest is whether the role of the Natural Disasters Organisation should be enlarged. Fortunately for this nation so far as Darwin was concerned, the present Australian Government had set up that organisation some months before the Darwin cyclone struck. For many years its policy had been to set up such an organisation. Through the Minister for Defence,  Mr Barnard,  it acted quickly. The organisation was functioning by about August or September of last year. It was able to play a significant part in the alleviation of hardship in Darwin. Under its present charter, the organisation as I understand it, deals only with matters of immediate relief, virtually of a physical kind. It may be that the role of the organisation, by incorporating some other factors in it, ought to be enlarged so that there can be a correlation of material aid with therapy directed to the emotional suffering of those affected. 
If this debate has done one thing, it has brought out the regrettable lack of knowledge of the interjectors from the Liberal Opposition of the enormity of the emotional problem in southern Tasmania. It is a bare 2 months since the tragedy. Those months have been summer months. When all of the physical difficulties to which the unfortunate population of the eastern shore is subjected are compounded over the months to come, especially the winter months, persons with any true compassion will appreciate that the most important aspect of that disaster is not getting money to repair physical damage but developing a proper understanding of the emotional problems of the persons affected. As I have said, I propose to suggest to the Australian 
Government Minister for Health,  Dr Everingham,  that a survey of the type 1 have mentioned be carried out. If one already exists I would not believe that it has been in sufficient depth to afford a guide to this nation as to how continuing natural disasters, which I regret have to be expected, can be most adequately dealt with in the public interest. 
I conclude by paying a tribute to the Australian Government for the extremely prompt manner in which it acted. So far as material damage was concerned, it acted quickly in a manner which gave confidence to the Tasmanian Government and also to persons individually affected. I think that in doing so it showed how governments can create goodwill and public confidence by the speed of their actions. The Australian Government certainly did that. I believe it remains for the Government only to ensure that the emotional trauma and difficulties from which a large number of residents are suffering, and will suffer in increasing numbers, are alleviated in the most compassionate manner. I think that when one speaks of compassion it is fortunate for the Australian public and for the people of southern Tasmania that the Whitlam Government is in power. I support both measures. 
If any proof were needed that the Opposition is the ally of conservative vested business interests, that proof has been afforded by its declared attitude this afternoon to the Corporations and Securities Industry Bill 1975. In moving the amendment that  Senator Greenwood  has just moved the Opposition has shown that it has no will to co-operate and no intention of cooperating with the Government to prevent practices which led to the scathing indictment of the administration of the securities industry in the report of the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange. 
Let me first of all correct the false impression which I suggest  Senator Greenwood  has given by his reference to the fact that this legislation was being rushed through, having been called on for debate only 2 sitting days after it was introduced on 6 March. Literally, that is true, but  Senator Greenwood  omitted to remind the House that in fact after this Bill was introduced there was a recess of four and a half weeks. The Bill is not being debated until after that recess. He also omitted to say, in that context, that the Bill is not fundamentally different from the Bill that was introduced into the Senate in December of last year, in relation to which an explanatory memorandum was circulated and a second reading speech was given by the then Attorney-General. There have been no fundamental alterations in the legislation. To suggest that this Bill is being rushed through the chamber is simply, I suggest, a capitulation to the vociferous complaints of those persons who want the old order to continue and do not want any reform or any change. 
Let us examine the history of this matter. It is now more than 5 years since this Senate, by its vote, resolved to appoint a select committee to inquire into this matter. Significantly, the initiative was then taken by the Labor Party and very reluctantly, as the debates indicate, the then Government had no option but to comply with the resolution that was moved by the then Leader of the Opposition. 
I do not understand the relevance of that interjection at all. I want to get away from this type of interjection and get on to the facts because in March 1970 when former  Senator Murphy  moved his motion he said: 
The background of this motion is the greatest speculative boom in Australia 's history- one of the greatest in world history. In the background also are a series of company crashes during the sixties and recent evidence of improper practices, notorious and harmful to the interests of this nation. 
He referred to Poseidon N.L., Tasminex, Mineral Securities (Australia) Ltd and other companies. Very reluctantly the then Government agreed to the resolution because it knew that public disquiet was so rampant and so justified that it did not dare oppose the resolution. So the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange came into existence. It first met on 2 1 April 1970. For details of its meetings I refer honourable senators to chapter 1, paragraph 1, of the report. A better reference in that context would be page 7 of volume 1. 1 do not pause to read it but for more than 4 years the Committee investigated allegations of abuse, malpractice, unfair dealing and improper control and exposed, as no issue, I suggest, has ever been publicly exposed, so comprehensively, the need for firm regulatory action in the interests of the nation and in the interests of the public. The Committee reached one main finding which was expressed in these words: 
The main finding of this Committee is that the regulation of the securities markets, of the intermediaries which operate in these markets, and of some of the activities of public companies and investment funds, is in need of fundamental reform. Our essential recommendation is that an Australian 
Securities Commission be established forthwith by the Federal Government to carry out this reform. Securities markets have an important part to play in the development of Australia and effective regulation is required to ensure that the markets are functioning to achieve this objective. 
In the concluding words of  Senator Greenwood  there seemed to be a return to the rather woolly concept that was voiced even in 1 970 that there was still room for State legislative action in this field. One of the myths which the Senate Committee exploded in its report, I suggest, was the view that was expressed in 1970 by  Senator Wright  speaking on behalf of the then Government that there was still an appropriate role for State legislation in this field. I quote from  Senator Wright's  remarks which appear in Hansard for 1 9 March 1 970 at page 504. He said: 
The position of the Government for which I speak tonight is that we recognise that we have had close and productive consultation with the States through the Standing Committee of Attorneys-General. We recognise that the States are more directly concerned than the Commonwealth with the administration of company law and matters relating to the securities industry. We recognise that these consultations have not been infertile and have produced extensive amendments to the Companies Act and 2 important Bills in the field of securities legislation. 
He was referring to Bills introduced in Victoria and New South Wales. 
-The setting up of the Select Committee of the Senate. It was the first Select Committee, not the second one that is sought in this proposed amendment. The suggestion contained in the passage that I have read was debunked by the Select Committee which emphasised the national character of the share market. I refer to chapter 16 of its report where the Committee said: 
When considering the regulatory needs of the securities market, it is essential to recognise the national character of the activities being regulated. 
The evidence has repeatedly established that the securities market is a national market. Each of the stock exchanges functions as part of a national network. 
Yet towards the end of his speech  Senator Greenwood  was extolling the attitude of the 4 Liberal States in Australia which as long ago as 2 years, I believe, were by action amongst themselves endeavouring to retain State administration of company law. I suggest that it cannot be said with any truth that there has been insufficient time for any individual group or organisation which is interested in this legislation to make their own views known to the Government. Let us see how co-operative this Government has been. It is well known that one of the first acts of the first Attorney-General in this 
Government, former  Senator Murphy,  was to commission the preparation of legislation which would establish a securities and exchange commission, irrespective of the fact that the Senate Select Committee was still then sitting and had been established as long ago as 1970. When the report of Professor Loess, the Cromwell Professor of Law at the Harvard University, was tabled comment was invited by the Government to assist in the preparation of legislation appropriate to our national needs as long ago as September 1973. The Government already had in existence a draft Bill when the Senate Select Committee's report was tabled on 18 July 1974. As the second reading speech of the Minister for Manufacturing Industry  (Senator James McClelland)  indicated, that draft Bill was revised in the light of recommendations contained in that report Further, when the matter was debated in the House of Representatives the Government took the initiative to make further amendments. 
Anyone interested in the detail of this matter has had the opportunity since last December to make representations to the Government, to any member of Parliament, to the Opposition, to  Senator Greenwood  or to anybody. Some people have availed themselves of that opportunity and it may well be that the Government would accept some amendments which were based on those submissions. But now, 4 months after a substantially similar Bill was first introduced into the Senate, more than 5 years since this chamber decided by resolution that the matter was causing such public disquiet that there ought to be a select committee of inquiry and nearly a year after the Select Committee's report, which took some 414 years- I do not say that critically- to compile - 
It shows the complexity that the Opposition seeks to feed to delay and frustrate this legislation. That is not what the Opposition's new leader said a fortnight ago. After all that, we have a proposal to have another select committee of this chamber to report on the Bill that is the product of the first Select Committee of this chamber. Where is the end to select committees? I would not suggest that this is a plot to keep government lawyers out of consideration of this matter, but I make it very plain that for this year we have run out of lawyers on this side of the chamber to serve on committees. That is the fact. The Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs has a very full program for the rest of this year. The 2 honourable senators available on this side of the House, other than the Minister, are members of the Committee to which I have just referred. I do not suggest that this area is the sole prerogative of lawyers, but it might not be a bad idea from the Government's point of view if it had a lawyer on such a committee. 

 - Senator Wright seems to suggest that there is some magical advantage in having lawyers on one 's side. I do not follow that theory. The Government is fairly well represented, having 4 lawyers on this side of the chamber. I believe that enough is as good as a feast, and sometimes more than 4 lawyers can be too many. 
I submit that the proposal of  Senator Greenwood  is a clumsy, albeit patent, attempt to delay this measure inordinately. It is hypocritical of  Senator Greenwood  to suggest that what he seeks to have done by the committee could be accomplished by 1 September, as it could not possibly be accomplished by then. If the honourable senator wants all the things that he has dredged up, including the constitutional power question, to be considered by a select committee of this chamber, whose members will have primary and fundamental duties to this Senate and will have only the recess between the end of this autumn session and the commencement of the Budget session in which to hear mountains of evidence that will surely be a repetition of what has been said in the past, I suggest he is not genuine in his desire to see this legislation translated into law. 
I suggest that a select committee given the task that  Senator Greenwood  would seek to give it could not possibly complete its task under at least a year, simply because everything that has the remotest connection with anything dealt with in the Bill is raked together, put on 2 pages, and then chucked to a select committee. 
-One would expect that interjection from a person dedicated to pursuing a conservative attitude towards securities industry reform, an attitude that can be summed up by the words 'do nothing'. That was the tenor of the honourable senator's speech in 1970, although he spoke reluctantly, because the then Government was not game to oppose  Senator Murphy's  motion; reluctantly it agreed to that motion. 
I have the speech before me, too; I have read it. If I am right that the select committee, which it is proposed to establish, could not complete its task in less than a year, this would mean that it would be the Budget session of 1 976 before this Bill, if approved in this form or in an amended form by the Senate, became law. That would be  6Vi  years after this Senate had agreed, on a Labor Party motion, that an inquiry should be held into the very matters with which this Bill deals. 
We all know that it is a common political tactic, when vested interests are opposed to a legislative reform, to press for the matter to be made the subject of an inquiry by the slowest possible process. I do not say this in any derogatory sense, but a select committee of either chamber is the slowest possible form of inquiry. I have outlined simply the stand that the Opposition is taking. I suggest that the tactic that it now employs marks its surrender to the combined forces of private enterprise which see in this Bill a barrier to the continuation of practices that have enabled these activities to be carried out. These practices have, first, robbed Australian citizens, as the select committee's report proves. Secondly, these practices have resulted in huge profits accruing to company promoters and proprietors, and in that connection I will refer shortly to Tasminex NL. Thirdly, these practices have denied the nation of Australia the undoubted advantages of a national regulatory system. 
I have referred to Tasminex, which  Senator Murphy  referred to in March 1970. I want to refer to the fact that the type of practice being allowed by the Opposition, if it succeeds in its motion, to continue unabated and without any regulation is revealed starkly in the report of the inspector appointed by the Tasmanian Government early in 1970 to inquire into the affairs of Tasminex. I might say that I do not pick out Tasminex especially. However, it was a Tasmanian company, and I moved the motion in the Tasmanian House of Assembly that led to the appointment of the inspector under the Companies Act. 
-By the then Government, no. I point out to  Senator Wright  that the report was available in 1 970. 
-The present Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Bingham.  I think  Senator Wright  had better get his dates right. I moved the motion concerned, and perhaps that misled  Senator Wright,  because we were then in Opposition and could not get the Government to do anything. Therefore, I moved the motion, which succeeded, and  Mr Wilson,  a prominent barrister from Tasmania, was appointed.  His  report is a matter of public record. 
-No, I did not take action for a very good reason. However, we will not now debate what action was to be taken, because if we read the concluding paragraph on page 6 1 of  Mr Wilson's  report that will perhaps indicate why certain action was not taken under either the Companies Act or the Criminal Code. 

 Mr Wilson's report revealed 3 basic points in relation to Tasminex. First, there was the myth of Mount Venn.  Mr Wilson  called it a myth because of the mythical reference to massive nickel sulphides. Secondly,  Mr Wilson  referred to the false market that was created by the public statements of directors and agents of the company. Thirdly, at page 40 of the report  Mr Wilson  referred to the huge profits that were made by certain persons. These events took place in 1 969 and 1 970. The Senate knew that this was happening, because  Senator Murphy  told the Senate what was taking place. It became a matter of public record that it had happened because of the report of  Mr Wilson,  even if" we leave aside the report of the Senate Select Committee. 
Nearly 6 years later, the Opposition now proposes a tactic that would permit that situation to recur tomorrow.  Senator Wright,  by interjection, has asked what action was taken. No action was taken- no charges were laid. However, I suggest it is, in these circumstances, an a fortiori case because, if no action was properly taken by the Liberal Government that received that advice, it could be assumed that on advice no action could be taken. If no action could be taken, surely that demonstrates the need for regulatory action that will prevent a repetition of these circumstances. 
I did not hear of any civil action, but of course writs could well have been issued and settled; I do not know about that. 
I do not know whether  Senator Wright,  by his interjections, is condoning what happened in the Tasminex case. 
The honourable senator says 'Certainly not'. I would have thought that in those circumstances he would be one of the first to say that we should, with as little delay as possible, get legislation on the statute book that will prevent occurrences such as those in the Tasminex case from being possible again. 
-The Opposition is saying: 'This year, next year, some dme, never'. What will be the effect of this delay on a national Companies Act? We know that Opposition senators are very ambivalent in relation to this matter. 
I suppose honourable senators would like to see it so they can put it in cold storage and delay it. In his second reading speech, the Minister said: 
The Bill deals with a wide range of matters that are currently contained in the companies legislation of the States and Territories, and it therefore represents a first step towards the objective of national companies legislation, to which the Government is committed. Other matters of company law, being matters that are not so closely related to the conduct of the securities industry, will be the subject of a further National Companies Bill, which the AttorneyGeneral proposes to introduce at an early date. The further Bill will be integrated with the present one so as the 2 Bills together will then make comprehensive provision on a national and up-to-date basis for both company law and the control of the securities industry. 
The conservatives would say- one of them,  Senator Missen,  has just opened his mouth to interject- 'Let us wait until we can have both Bills together'. This Government has endeavoured to do as quickly as it can something which the Opposition claims that it supports, at least in principle, and in respect of which  Senator Rae  in 1970 acknowledged public disquiet in those words in the debate on the original resolution. I suggest that any decent member of the public would want this as early as possible. Of course, there is room for difference of opinion on the detailed provisions of the Bill. But so there was in relation to the Trade Practices Bill and the Family Law Bill. 
-We referred it to the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. There is no analogy whatsoever between the 2 Bills. Why cannot such amendments as the Opposition proposes be debated on the floor of this chamber? Why cannot the Opposition vote against such provisions as it proposes to vote against? It is a case of Nero fiddling while Rome burns; Nero is  Senator Greenwood  and Rome is the nation of Australia and the investors of Australia. There are 2 essential functions of the Corporations and Securities Commission which are contained in clause 20 of the Bill. It reads: 
It is the duty of the Commission, to the extent to which the Parliament has power to confer that duty on the Commission, to- 
ensure adequate protection of persons who invest in securities of prescribed corporations; 
maintain effective surveillance over the operations and  activities  of registered stock exchanges and the holders of licences having regard to the provisions of this Act. 
Those are the 2 basic purposes of the legislation. I suggest that the Senate Select Committee, by the whole tenor of its report, supported those as proper functions. If there is any variation of the detail of ensuring that those functions are carried out, let the Opposition produce its amendments. It has been rumoured round the lobbies that  Senator Rae  has more than 100 amendments to move to this Bill. Let him produce them and let us deal with them in the proper way on the floor of this chamber. I suggest that to delay the operation of this legislation, which is designed to achieve objectives to which the Opposition pays lip service, is a shameful misuse of the Opposition's numbers in this chamber. Not only is it a shameful misuse of numbers, but also it makes a mockery of the promise of the new Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  as recently as about 2 weeks ago, that the Opposition would stop its obstructive attitude to Government legislation in the Senate. Far from stopping its obstructive attitude towards Government legislation, by this amendment the Opposition is showing that it will intensify that attitude. I do not know whether or not the Leader of the Opposition is aware of the effect of this amendment, but the Opposition and its Leader cannot evade the responsibility. We now know that that promise of the Leader of the Opposition was hollow and is not being reflected in the Opposition 's attitude to this measure. 
I conclude on the note that no case has been made for deferring an essential and important piece of Government legislation to which the Government has committeed itself in 2 policy speeches and I believe in a Speech of the GovernorGeneral. The only reason given is that certain unidentified individuals and groups want to continue to bombard the Government with further paper. That is all it amounts to. That is no reason.The Opposition in the introductory words of its amendment says:   . . the Senate accepts the principle of an effective Securities Commission to regulate and supervise the securities industry for the purpose of assuring its integrity, efficiency, stability and financial soundness . . . 
Does the Opposition mean those words, or is it a case of sheer hypocrisy? I suggest the latter, because the Opposition is seeking to delay a beneficial and essential reform, and it does so under the guise that it has not had sufficient time to consider the matter. We are now in the sixth year of the consideration of this matter. It speaks for itself. I oppose the amendment. 
Sitting suspended at 5.41 to 8 p.m. 
I direct a question to the Postmaster-General. Is it a fact that overseas air mail postage from Australia is much dearer than similar mail postage to Australia? If so, what are the reasons for the disparity? 
It seems to me, having listened to this debate for some 2 hours, that the public must be puzzled by the fact that, although there has been expressed agreement by the speakers who have spoken so far between the Government and the Opposition, first, that the Government's motion in relation to  Senator Webster  should be agreed to, and secondly, by the Government that the Opposition 's amendment should be agreed to. It seems to me that any member of the public would be puzzled as to why the debate degenerated before the dinner adjournment to such a low personal level. The tone of that degeneration was set by those senators who, despite the fact there is to be a High Court hearing in relation to  Senator Webster  which must resolve certain general issues regarding the meaning of the provisions in the Constitution, and despite the fact that there is to be a judicial inquiry on the wide range as set out in the amendment, bandied names across the chamber in a manner which must have disgusted those who are truly interested in arriving at a resolution of this difficult matter. 
I thought that the reference to you,  Sir, as President  of the chamber, was particularly inappropriate, because as  President  of the Senate you are least able to defend yourself when a personal allegation or accusation is made. It is no secret, because I knew long ago, that some 10 years ago you were a member of a syndicate that acquired a leasehold interest in land in Canberra and thereon proceeded to erect flats for your personal occupation. As you,  Sir, have  been coming to Canberra for almost 30 years, I thought that reference was most unworthy. Regarding the reference to the  Deputy  Prime Minister, why he should be singled out I do not know, because one would think that in the course of the 75 years of the existence of these provisions in the Constitution there would have been some Liberal Party or Country Party members who also had been in like case. I thought also that the debate reached the lowest possible level when the Prime Minister's wife was involved. When matters such as these are raised the debate obviously is set for a very poor level. 
Then, we had from the same senator a dissertation on the law, even though the honourable senator knew that the High Court would soon be determining the law in relation to  Senator Webster  and even though he knew that a full scale judicial committee of inquiry was to be established by agreement of the Government. There was no room at that stage for personal expressions of what the law is or might be. As the word 'charge' has been used in relation to  Senator Webster,  I should like to make the point plain, namely, that the word 'charge' is inappropriate in this particular context, because  Senator Webster  is not being charged with anything by resolution of the Senate. The word 'charge' has connotations of a criminal or quasi-criminal character. No such question is involved in this case and, although standing order 386, to which I will refer later for another reason, uses the word charges' it is used in a completely different sense from that in which the ordinary members of the public would understand it in relation to  Senator Webster. 
It is not for me to be gratuitous in extending good wishes, but I simply say that I will have no personal pleasure and no party political pleasure if the High Court should determine that  Senator Webster  has- unwittingly I do not doubtbreached the Constitution. I would not gain any pleasure from that situation. I have referred to standing order 386 and, in view of what  Senator G  reenwood said before the suspension of the sitting, 1 believe it ought to be read out in full. The standing order states: 
If any information comes before any Committee that charges any  Senator, the  Committee ought only to direct that the Senate be acquainted with the matter of such information, without proceeding further thereupon. 
That standing order, it seems to me, is open to 2 interpretations: Either that the Committee has a duty to acquaint the Senate of the information or certainly that it has a right to do so. In either event, whatever the interpretation be, I submit there is no doubt that the Committee acted with complete propriety. Once that situation had occurred, since it has been said that there is a vendetta of a political character against  Senator Webster,  the Government undoubtedly had 3 choices. First, it could have ignored the matter. I suggest that that would not have been responsible and would have been open to the interpretation, especially when the scenario had developed to a stage once when it was suggested that 17 members of the Parliament were involved, that it was an attempt to shield members of Parliament from the effects of the provisions of the Constitution, and to have ignored the matter would in my submission have been unthinkable. 
The second alternative for the Government was to invite the Senate to determine the matter itself if the view were taken, as a majority of the Senate took the view about a year ago in relation to  Senator Gair,  that the Parliament had not, by enacting the Electoral Act, excluded its jurisdiction under section 47 of the Constitution. As I think that every honourable senator who has spoken and who has adverted to this matter agrees, that would not have been an appropriate course. So the Government was left with a third alternative, and that is the alternative it has adopted- I suggest that there was no other. The third alternative was to take advantage of section 203 of the Electoral Act and, by resolution of the Senate, have the question of  Senator Webster  referred to the High Court as a Court of Disputed Returns. 
I suggest that when those 3 alternatives are analysed, there is no question of doubt but that the Government has taken the right course in relation to the matter that was formally and officially placed on the notice paper, as it were, of the Senate by the Joint Committee on Pecuniary Interests of Members of Parliament. I referred earlier to one senator who had intruded personal allegations and assertions into his contribution to this debate. I now want to refer to another senator, namely,  Senator Hall,  so that there will be no misunderstanding, and who, according to my note, said; 'I have clear evidence of other breaches'. In the context of  Senator Hall's  remarks he was involving among others at least the  Deputy  Prime Minister,  Dr J.  F. Cairns. Those words were clear and unequivocal. By those words  Senator Hall  not only asserted to the world that in his judgment  Senator Webster  had breached the Constitution but also that others, including the  Deputy  Prime Minister, had done the same. 
I suggest that, in the cold light of the morning, when  Senator Hall  has the opportunity to peruse the transcript of what he has said, he will see fit to realise that, with due respect to him, he went too far. In view of the status of this matter, being on the verge of being referred to the High Court and of the appointment of a judicial committee of inquiry with very wide terms of reference, I suggest that that statement was completely inappropriate. Despite the level to which the debate degenerated I submit that at this stage of the debate we ought to be considering the public interest and what the public thinks and, in that respect, I will make 3 points. Firstly, the public ought to be completely aware that the provisions of the Constitution which are relevant in the context of the issue we are discussing are threequarters of a century old. They were enacted at a time when perhaps the only guide to the framers of the Constitution was the concept of the imperial provisions and some State Constitution Acts. The important point that ought to be made in that respect is that most, if not all, States have found it necessary, with the increased involvement of government in affairs relating to individuals, to depart from the strict position which obtained at the end of the last century and there have been frequent amendments to State statutes to obviate situations which obviously were never intended. That is the first point the public ought to clearly understand. 
The second point is that despite what has been said this afternoon,  Senator Webster's  case, I understand by resolution of the Senate, is about to be referred to the High Court of Australia, sitting as a Court of Disputed Returns, and the public can be confident that the High Court will interpret the provisions of the Constitution, insofar as such interpretation is appropriate for the determination of  Senator Webster's  case, with its normal impartiality. 
The third point that ought to be made is that under the terms of the Opposition amendment a wide ranging judicial inquiry is about to be established. The Government has said that it will act upon the amendment of the Senate if that is agreed to. The judicial committee of inquiry, which could be one that hopefully will consist of more than one experienced and eminent judge, will be required to examine the types of circumstances in which the receipt by members of the Parliament of moneys, fees and other benefits might constitute a breach and, secondly, any other questions relating to members of the Parliament which could properly be referred to the Court of Disputed Returns and, finally, whether the provisions of the Constitution in the present day circumstances and conditions are appropriate. As I understand it that means that there would be at least 186 witnesses before the judicial committee of inquiry. During the suspension of the sitting for dinner I worked out that if the judicial committee dealt with 5 witnesses a day, which would not be bad, it would take nearly 6 weeks. In the course of a few months I imagine that we all will be much wiser although some of us may be much sadder persons. I would imagine that those 186 members of Parliament, and perhaps  Senator Webster  might join the crowd so that he will not be the odd man out at that stage, would welcome the opportunity to appear before a judicial committee of inquiry. I certainly will be happy to do so. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers),  when moving the amendment yesterday, raised 2 points of detail; firstly, as to  Senator Webster's  costs, and secondly, as to whether a pair would be granted. I am aware that later on formal and official announcements will be made by the Government, if not tonight as soon as practicable. In my view the matter does not require much more elaboration. I simply say that in the haste of some honourable senators to ensnare their political opponents and their wives in a net of constitutional breach they demean the Senate and themselves. The future as to what is to happen so that doubts will be set aside and that clear guidelines will exist, is clear and it ought to be approached without heat- and it certainly ought to be approached without political partisanship. 
I stress one point and that is that the provisions of the Constitution do not allow for any plea in mitigation. The provisions are absolute. Either there has been a breach or there has not. If there has been a breach the consequence is beyond doubt- the seat becomes vacant. There is no room in this situation for the putting forward or the acceptance of extenuating circumstances, of ignorance of or a forgetfulness of the law. 
As I said when I began to speak, this afternoon there has been a welter of suggestions and accusations against individuals. I suggest that it would be far better if this motion, the Opposition's amendment and  Senator Hall's  further amendment were put speedily and determined by the Senate- I do not say I agree with  Senator Hall's  amendment- without further personal vilification because those who are minded to accuse others will have their chance to do so before the judicial committee of inquiry. There they can, if they wish, assail whom they like. Finally I suggest that they will find the atmosphere of a judicial court of inquiry far more dignified that the position they have taken up by assuming the role of common informers, to use the language of the moment, under the guise of parliamentary privilege. I support the motion and I support the Opposition amendment. 
by leave- I move: 
That the time for presentation of the report of the Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs on the clauses of the National Compensation Bill 1974 be extended till 30 June 1975; 
That, if the Senate be not sitting when the Committee has completed its report, the Committee may send its report to the  President  of the Senate, who is authorised to give directions for its printing and circulation, and in such event the  President  shall lay the report upon the table at the next sitting of the Senate; and 
That the foregoing provisions of this resolution, so far as they are inconsistent with the Standing Orders, have effect notwithstanding anything contained in the Standing Orders. 
I wish to make a brief statement on the activities of the Committee indicating the reason why it seeks the extension of time. The matter of the clauses of the National Compensation Bill 1974 was referred to the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs on 30 October 1974. By the Senate's resolution the Committee was required to report back to the Senate on or before 30 November 1974. On 27 November 1974 the Committee was granted an extension of time in which to report until 30 April 1975. On 6, 7 and 8 November 1974, by advertisements inserted in 12 newspapers throughout 
Australia, the Committee invited interested persons and organisations to make written submissions to the Committee by 25 November 1974. Prior to 27 November 1 974 the Committee had held 4 private meetings, 1 1 submissions had been received and 27 persons and organisations had expressed interest in making written submissions to the Committee. 
After the extension of time in which to report had been granted by the Senate the Committee again inserted an advertisement in 14 newspapers throughout Australia on 2 1 and 23 December 1974 in which interested persons and organisations were invited to make written submissions to the Committee by 1 February 1975. Since 27 November 1974 the Committee has received a further 57 submissions, making a total of 68 submissions received since the inquiry commenced. In its interim report and in the December 1 974 advertisements in the Press, the Committee stated that it proposed to visit each State capital city to further its inquiry and to hear evidence in public. Since 27 November 1974 the Committee has held a total of 1 7 public meetings in Canberra and in each State capital city, at which it has heard evidence from 41 individuals and organisations. Most of the public meetings were held outside Canberra- five were held in Melbourne, five in Sydney, one in Hobart, two in Perth, one in Adelaide, one in Brisbane and two in Canberra. 
In addition to the public meetings since 27 November 1974 the Committee has held one in camera meeting and 13 private meetings, making a total of 18 private meetings on the reference. Subject to the resolution of the Senate, the Committee proposes to hold 2 further public meetings in Canberra on 28 and 29 April 1975 and private meetings on the remaining days of that week. At the public meetings and at the in camera meeting evidence has been heard from various sections of the community, including all State government's except Victoria, which has not yet made any oral submission, Australian Government departments, sections of the insurance and life assurance industry, trade unions, and the legal and medical professions. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-The motion before the Senate is not really in truth, although it is in form, directed against the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Senator Willesee).  It is directed against the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  because it was the Prime Minister of this country who, when his back was turned and he was on official state business, became the butt of virtually every editorial in this country on the first day after the revelation of these cables. After the Prime Minister had shown from afar that it was false and wrong to treat the cables separately from the letters- I suggest at that stage the only information which the Opposition had came from a statement which the Prime Minister had made- the editorials adopted a very different tone. They had jumped in where angels feared to tread. The motion before the Senate, I suggest, is miserably weak in its presentation and in itself is deceitful because it depends initially on what the Prime Minister said in the House of Representatives on 8 April and 9 April. Despite repeated interjections which were intended to alert the Opposition- whether that is believed is another matter- the Prime Minister never referred to the cables as such. He always referred to the communications. 
Sentor Sim- Not the Foreign Minister though. 
-The honourable senator will have a chance to speak later. I propose to read what the Prime Minister said. Both  Senator Carrick  and  Senator Maunsell  repeatedly misrepresented this afternoon what the Prime Minister said on 8 April and 9 April and they did so in the context of a debate in which such high sounding phrases as 'parliamentary honesty' and ministerial responsibility for any misleading of 
Parliament' have been made the real parliamentary basis of this allegation against the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who I would suggest, if the Opposition were honest, it would recognise as being one of the most purposeful and internationally respected Ministers for Foreign Affairs that Australia has known since World War II. 
-The laughter that has come from the next speaker in the debate ill becomes a member of a government which had got down to a stage at which it was the tool and the vassal of imperialist America. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Georges)-  Ring the bells. (The bells being rung)- 
Honourable senators opposite stayed in the gutter for over a decade concerning Vietnam. (Quorum formed) In view of the remark that was passed by  Senator Wright,  although I did not intend to dwell upon the infamy of the involvement of the United States of America and Australia through political pressure, I propose to read from 'The Pentagon Papers' a document dated 7 February 1965 which indicates the attitude in the Pentagon at that stage to what it was going to do to Vietnam and in Vietnam. The document, which is brief, reads: 
We believe that the best available way of increasing our chance of success in Vietnam is the development and execution of a policy of sustained reprisal against North Vietnam- a policy in which air and naval action against the North is justified by and related to the whole Vietcong campaign of violence and terror in the South. 
While we believe that the risks of such a policy are acceptable, we emphasise that its costs are real. It implies significant US air losses even if no full air war is joined, and it seems likely that it would eventually require an extensive and costly effort against the whole air defence system of North Vietnam. US casualties would be higher- and more visible to American feelings- than those sustained in the struggle in South Vietnam. 
Yet measured against the costs of defeat in Vietnam, this program seems cheap. And even if it fails to turn the tide- as it may- the value of the effort seems to us to exceed its cost. 
That document is dated 7 February 1965. In April 1965 a formal American document was prepared setting out the President's decisions with respect to Vietnam. I refer to only one of them- there are 1 1 paragraphs in all- that is, the one that refers to Australia. It reads: 
The  President  approved the urgent exploration, with the Korean, Australian, and New Zealand Governments, of the possibility of rapid deployment of significant combat elements from their armed forces in parallel with the additional Marine deployment approved in paragraph 6. 
That was the immediate political precursor to the involvement by the previous Liberal-Country Party Government of Australian forces to which reference was made earlier this afternoon. In the light of that piece of history, which can never be erased, is it any wonder that, as thousands of persons quit Vietnam in various ways for various parts of the world and will remain so long as they live a permanent indictment of the political systems which permitted that situation to arise, the Opposition seeks to divert attention from its part in that infamous piece of history by pettifogging debates such as are involved in the motion before the Senate this afternoon? 
There are 2 things that the Opposition seems to forget completely. One is that by this motion it is sending a signal to the world- in particular to South Vietnam- that the even-handedness which the Australian Government has professed and, I submit, has practised does not in fact and in truth exist. Is that serving the interests of Australia? Of course it is not. One would have thought that with the significant domestic issues awaiting consideration the time of the Parliament would have been occupied better this afternoon by inquiring, if the Opposition is genuine about security and Australia's position internationally, into how the cablegrams were leaked to a certain section of the media. How were they leaked? 
-Senator Greenwood, who initiated the motion before the Senate, seems to know something about them. If he thinks that Australia's security is imperilled by the leakages that have occurred in relation to this matter I would suggest that it is his bounden duty to bring that to the notice of this Parliament. That would be a far better way of occupying the attention of the Parliament than this pettifogging motion which, as I have said, has been miserably presented, such that a first year law student  would  not feel very proud of its presentation. 
I refer to something that  Senator Carrick  and  Senator Maunsell  persistently misrepresented this afternoon; that is, the claim that the Prime Minister, who is the real butt of this matter, had referred to the fact that the cablegrams were substantially similar. The Prime Minister never used such an expression. He dealt with this matter on 3 separate occasions on 8 April and 9 April. The first occasion was on the morning of 8 April when he was asked a question by  Mr Peacock,  the essence of which was as follows: 
Were, in fact, the same representations made to each side? 
The Prime Minister, after saying that it was not the practice to reveal the contents of such documents, said: 
There have been communications certainly in the last 3 or 4 weeks but there were also communications 2 years ago in the middle of 1 973 and they - 
The communications - have been to both sides though not in the same terms because while it is true that there have been gross breaches of the Paris Agreements by both North and South Vietnam and by the Provisional Revolutionary Government and perhaps by the United States of America, nevertheless the breaches have not been all of the same kind. It is surely idle to suggest that one should complain about military breaches and be mute about political breaches. The trouble in Vietnam now is the same as arose in the early 1960s because there was not an equal respect shown to the political as to the military engagements of the Genera Agreements of 19S4 and the Paris Agreements of 1973. 
There the matter rested at that stage. Later the same day the Prime Minister delivered a prepared ministerial statement on Indo-China. In that statement he emphasised the evenhandedness of the approach of the Australian Government and he referred to the two letters of 13 March. It is worth quoting what the Prime Minister said because the whole gravamen of this debate- a debate that began and ended rather unceremoniously for the Opposition in the House of Representatives this afternoon- and the whole gravamen of the editorials is that Australia has not been evenhanded in its attitude towards North and South Vietnam. In the course of that ministerial statement the Prime Minister said: 
The second contribution open to Australia was to use diplomatic influence to end the fighting. In particular the Australian Government has tried to promote adherence to the Paris Agreements. We have lost no opportunity to encourage the Vietnamese parties to implement the Agreements to the full - 
I emphasise these words: and to deplore the breaches of the Agreements by both sides. 
Yet it has been said in this debate this afternoon that the Australian Government is adopting an indulgent attitude towards North Vietnam. The Prime Minister continued: 
And, of course, we have been able to do this only because we are diplomatically represented in both Saigon and Hanoi. 
These attitudes have consistently been expressed over the past IS months by me and by the Foreign Minister at the highest level, and by personal contact between Vietnamese ministers and officials and some of my colleagues, including - 
And he named 3 Ministers. 
As recently as 13 March I wrote to both President Thieu and the North Vietnamese Foreign Minister stressing Australia's support for the implementation of the Agreements, our concern at the continued lack, of progress, the continued fighting and the continuing breaches of the Agreements by both sides. 
Does anyone in the Opposition in this chamber this afternoon dispute that that is a fair, accurate and correct statement of Australian Government policy over the past 15 to 18 months? Does anyone in the Opposition disagree with it as a policy? There is no answer, at least by way of interjection,  Mr President.  Yet in the face of that, in the face of the acceptance, I suggest, by the Opposition of the propriety of the Government's actions over the past 15 to 18 months we have this pettifogging motion this afternoon that would do credit to the Dickens character Serjeant Buzfuz, the pettifogging lawyer of a century and a half ago. 
-The honourable senator does not really get any second dividends from an interjection like that. The simple fact is that the Prime Minister at that stage had not singled out the cablegrams for the expression of any compendious opinion about what they represented. Then in the same debate on Indo-China on the same afternoon  Mr Peacock  made a speech, and the whole gravamen of his speech, which appears at page 1269 of Hansard of that day, is in these words: 
I nail the argument not only about even-handedness but also about the tacit support that is being engendered elsewhere. 
The complaint by  Mr Peacock  was one of lack of even-handedness, but until the Prime Minister revealed the existence of the letters of 13 March  Mr Peacock  did not know about them. He had been away, of course, and he had seen something or someone had shown him something about some cablegrams. That was the second occasion on which the Prime Minister was involved in the matter. On the following day, that is Wednesday, 9 April, the Leader of the Opposition in the House of Representatives  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  took over the attack and asked a question, which appears at page 1357. In answer, the Prime Minister said this: 
Of course I have noticed suggestions that there was some difference in the tone of the communications I sent to Hanoi and Saigon. The honourable gentleman and the honourable member for Kooyong, his spokesman on foreign affairs, invited me to table the cables. 
The Prime Minister declined to do so. At page 1 3 5 8 he went on to say: 
The communications I sent to Hanoi and Saigon were substantially the same. There was one matter obviously which I mentioned to Saigon which I did not mention to Hanoi. That concerned the National Council for Reconciliation and Concord. It concerned Saigon alone. There was a matter which I mentioned to Hanoi but not to Saigon, namely, links with the Provisional Revolutionary Government. That concerned Hanoi and not Saigon. If challenges are to be made, let the honourable member for Kooyong release the telegram which he saw in Saigon, or part of which he saw, and then I will release the other. It would be a breach of proper practice in each case. It is very easy as people know to challenge a Minister to release a document which should be confidential by making some allegation. 
-Serjeant Buzfuz would not have been proud of that interjection. The Prime Minister never separated the letters from the cablegrams. There were 4 communications that are relevant to this matter- 2 letters and 2 telegrams- and on every occasion on which the Prime Minister referred to the matter, which was an allegation of lack of even-handedness, he used the words 'the communications', and no interjection from any honourable senator is going to separate the Prime Minister's tongue in that respect. The Prime Minister treated them as part of one chain of correspondence, if I may use that expression, between the Australian Government and the Governments of South and North Vietnam and, so far as the cablegrams were concerned, involving the Ambassadors. At every stage he said 'the communications'. Yet this afternoon we had  Senator Carrick  saying that  Mr Whitlam  had said that the cables of 2 April were substantially the same.  Senator Carrick  said that in the context of a debate in which someone is accused of having misled the Parliament. The Prime Minister at no stage used the expression the cables', except in the dry context which appears in Hansard of answering suggestions that documents ought to be produced, and then he referred to cables, notes and other documents. So far as these documents are concerned, at every time that he mentioned the matter the Prime Minister was very careful to use the overall expression 'the communications'.  Senator Carrick  either did not read Hansard or deliberately distorted what the Prime Minister said.  Senator Maunsell  either did not read Hansard or also deliberately distorted what the Prime Minister had said. 
It is in that context and against that background that the matter came for debate in the Senate on 9 April. In replying to the motion that was moved in extravagant terms by the Opposition in that it referred to the duplicity of" the Australian Government's actions in its dealings with the Government of South Vietnam and with the Government of North Vietnam,  Senator Willesee  reviewed, paraphrasing at times of course, what had been said by  Mr Peacock  the previous afternoon in the House of Representatives. Of course he adopted the same attitude as the Prime Minister had adopted, that is, that Australia 's attitude throughout was one of evenhandedness. If one indicts the Minister for Foreign Affairs, as this motion seeks to do, one also indicts the Prime Minister because the complaint of the Opposition is not as to what precise words were used but that in its dealings with warring foreign powers Australia has favoured one side against the other, at least diplomatically, and that is where this motion falls down. If this were an indictment for a criminal offence, no court would let this case go to the jury. It would be thrown out and it would be thrown out to the discredit of the prosecution, in this case the Opposition Parties. They are seeking to mask their own guilty conscience in relation to Vietnam with a round-about motion involving the consideration of the use of words by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and by the Prime Minister. As such this motion will be seen by the public as a clumsy and even schoolboyish attempt to occupy the time of this Senate in discrediting a person who will never be discredited by this Opposition in the corridors of international power because his head is held very high. I oppose the motion. 
I wish to say, in indicating my support for this Bill, that I appreciate the approach adopted by  Senator Rae  in most of his speech and also the approach adopted by  Senator Townley  except the latter part. I remind  Senator Rae,  so that he will not repeat the error, that it is only a little over 4 months since the Tasman Bridge disaster occurred. When one is being critical, as some people are in this context, the precise time is material. 
I want to proceed straight away to the last part of the speech of  Senator Townley  because I think it was extremely unworthy of him to repeat, without particulars, vague allegations against the Minister for Defence,  Mr Barnard,  whose record in this matter I suggest on examination indicates that, in less than 24 hours of the occurrence of this tragedy late on a Sunday night, he was in Hobart and after hours of discussion with the Tasmanian Premier had already reached agreement on the contribution by the Commonwealth to the rectification of the consequences of the disaster and he has maintained that position of liaison Minister between the Australian Government and the Tasmanian Government since that time. I suggest that no one, not even  Senator Townley  in a political climate, could suggest one thing that should have been done by the Minister for Defence that has in fact not been done. When one reads scurrilous attacks made upon  Mr Barnard  in another place and adds to that what was said this afternoon by  Senator Townley,  the destruction of the argument that the Minister for Defence was not acting properly in this matter becomes extremely easy when the facts are examined. I have kept in my Hobart office a file- it is now a series of files- containing all the Press cuttings in relation to this disaster. I have been through them for the purposes of debate on this Bill, but I certainly do not intend to read them all to the Senate. They show the action taken from the beginning, from the cablegram from the Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  who was then overseas to the Tasmanian Premier. Within less than 24 hours of the tragedy that cablegram was sent. It read as follows: 
My Government stands ready in consultation and cooperation with the State authorities to do everything possible to alleviate this disaster and investigate its causes. 
That telegram was received by the Premier on Monday 6 January. 
-No, that was in a talkback program in Europe, I think, the following day. It is true that the Prime Minister referred to a criminal jury. It is true that with his innate sense of fairness when he was reminded about it he withdrew and apologised, something which some politicians do not do when they overstep the mark. On Monday 6 January, the Minister for Defence agreed with the Tasmanian Premier to provide whatever Bailey bridging was required for the construction of a temporary crossing of the Derwent in the vicinity of Dowsing Point. I should say that the total amount of Bailey bridging which the Commonwealth has agreed to provide is 5720 feet and every foot of that Bailey bridging promised on 6 January has been delivered on the day on which the Department of Public Works asked that it be delivered. It is not all delivered now. 
-The Public Works Department does not want it in the way. 
-The suggestion was made otherwise in another place but we will leave the gentleman who made that remark to wither under the lash of his own leader,  Mr Fraser,  who very smartly repudiated what he said in that debate. In addition to that, the Department of Housing and Construction has begun, and expects to complete before the end of this month, May, the removal and relocation of the Army depot which is at the bridge site. I have been shown a letter from the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  to the Minister for Defence which states that work was put in hand on 5 April to remove the depots and completion of that part of the works necessary for relocation of the depot is expected by the end of this month. If suggestions are going to be made, such as were made by  Senator Townley,  to the discredit of the Minister for Defence,  Mr Barnard,  trie obligation is on those who make the charges to particularise them. I ask  Senator Townley  to state, when he first gets the opportunity, in what manner the Minister for Defence has failed properly to carry out his duties in relation to this disaster. Let the particulars be given. Those who are not prepared to give particulars of a secondhand or thirdhand allegation of that sort ought to withdraw them. 
Those words must not be used in this chamber. As I understand the ruling, they are offensive to some persons. In a regrettable lapse from the high tone of the debate which  Senator Rae  set,  Senator Rae  said that the fact that this was to be a joint commission as between the 2 Governments was a reflection of centralistic attitude. There is a far more accurate and a far more charitable explanation. It is simply that since the Australian Government had agreed from the beginning to pay all the costs associated with the disaster it obviously was commonsense from an administrative point of view that there should be joint involvement in relation to all work, especially restoration work. 
I am very glad that  Senator Wright  asked that question because I had intended to refer in a moment- I will do it now- to his earlier interjection when  Senator Rae  was speaking. I inferred from that interjection, and I certainly infer now from the question, that the view is held by  Senator Wright  that without any question all of the money which the Australian Government will pay to the State of Tasmania pursuant to its undertaking could have been recovered anyway at law. 
-As far as the bridge is concerned, if that is taken in isolation, yes. 
-But there is just one point to be considered. The honourable senator who raises this point must be unaware of the doubts that were held, and to the best of my knowledge still are held, as to the limit of the liability of the Australian National Line in law because of the provisions of the Merchant Shipping Act. It ought not just be laughed off. 
-They are not limited conditions at all. All I say is that responsible lawyers, including the counsel within the service of the Tasmanian Government in the early days of this disaster gave very serious consideration to what was the legal position of the Australian National Line because of the limiting provisions of the Merchant Shipping Act. 
I do not mind where  Senator Wright  puts the speech as long as he realises that a serious question is involved as to what is the legal liability of the ANL. I am not prepared to give an answer on that point without considerable research. Therefore it was extremely desirable that any action taken should be taken in unison by the Tasmanian and the Australian governments. The point I want to make about the Bailey bridge, because of the allegation of undue delay, is that the Tasmanian Government at all times took the view, and the Australian Government was not prepared to dispute the validity of the view, that the Tasmanian Government should construct the bridge, including of course the approaches. It might be said that the Tasmanian Government is taking too long in relation to the approaches; it might be said that it is making too good a job of the approaches, but we do not know how long that Bailey bridge will have to remain there and I do not think the Tasmanian Government can be criticised for that. At any rate, the fact is that pursuant to an arrangement made by  Mr Barnard  on 6 January the Public Works Department ultimately said that it did not require any Bailey bridging to be delivered to the site until 14 April. That is the simple fact. The Minister for Defence has arranged, and the Department of Defence is carrying out the arrangement, that whenever the Tasmanian Government says through the Department of Public Works that it wants a particular amount of footage of Bailey bridging delivered on the site, it will be delivered there. It is as simple as that. 
We will not muddy the argument by intruding an irrelevant matter. So far as a second permanent bridge across the Derwent is concerned, assuming there is full restoration of the existing bridge, I am able to give some details in relation to that matter, although the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Wriedt)  will give the formal Government reply, because I was personally involved in the discussions between the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Dr Cairns),  and the then Tasmanian Premier,  Mr Reece,  in Hobart on 24 January this year. I was present at a Press conference held by  Dr Cairns  at which he was asked who would pay the cost of the second bridge. He gave an answer at that stage which would have satisfied anyone but a pedant and it subsequently has been confirmed that it is the policy of the Australian Government that it will pay the cost of the second bridge as part of the national highway plan. I would not have thought that anyone was in any doubt about that. Statements accordingly have been made by  Dr Cairns,  the Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  and the Minister for Transport,  Mr Jones.  So there should be no doubt in anyone's mind in relation to that matter. 
It was I who suggested, and the suggestion was accepted, that there should be a joint task force to investigate and recommend the location and type of second bridge. I was fearful that if the State Government continued its investigations and then said to the Australian Government that it had decided to build such and such a type of bridge at such and such a point, asking the Australian Government please to confirm that it would pay for it, the Australian Government would not have been in the position to have given an immediate answer. Probably, and I think it responsibly should do so, the Australian Government would have made its own investigations. They would have taken a long time. It may well be that in the end the Australian Government would have said: 'Look, our advice is that it is the wrong type of bridge and it is in the wrong place'. Then we all would have been back to square one. It seemed to me at least that the proper administrative action was to carry out a joint investigation. That suggestion was put to  Dr Cairns  and to  Mr Reece  and was accepted. The announcement was made in Hobart on 24 January that the joint task force would carry out this investigation. To the best of my knowledge there has been no alteration to what has already been announced, namely, that the report of that task force should be available by about the end of this month. Whether or not there has been any delay I do not know, but that is the last announcement of which I am aware. However, I do think that once the initial report of the joint task force is available merit probably will be found in the suggestion made by  Senator Townley  that there should be a unification of the bridge authorities in relation to both the existing bridge and a second bridge. Difficulties in relation to personnel, of course, arise. 
The Chief Commissioner under the proposal which is contained in the Bill before the Senate is the Commissioner of the Tasmanian HydroElectric Commission, but I do not know how he would be able to fit in all of these duties. Provided the authority remains a joint one between the State Government and the Australian Government, I believe that there is merit in combining their activities at a later appropriate stage. As I have said, the Leader of the Government in the Senate (Sector Wriedt) will reply on behalf of the Government to the questions raised by  Senator Rae.  But in relation to the matter of the decentralisation of Australian Government departments from Hobart to the eastern shore, I am personally aware that a number of departments very quickly established branch offices on the eastern shore. I refer to the Department of Social Security and the Department of Labor and Immigration. I do not know the full list, but as far as I am aware those departments established their branch offices as early as January. 
I am not suggesting for a moment that every government department has established a branch office. 
I have the utmost sympathy for any resident on the eastern shore who has to go to any government department and thereby be put to the inconvenience of travelling on the ferry- it is an extremely pleasant experience to travel on the ferry except when it is cold- or travelling around through Bridgewater. I suppose any of those residents would make the suggestion that facilities should be established on the eastern shore. But it is a question of the extent to  which  it is reasonable to do so. 
There has been some criticism of the State Government and of the Department of Public Works by implication in the debate this afternoon. I do not believe that a lot of the criticism that is being made of the State Government and its departments is justified. I would refer Tasmanian senators in particular to a letter which appeared in today's 'Mercury'. It was written by a fairminded member of the Upper House,  Mr Broadby,  who makes the point in some detail that it is about time some people stopped knocking the Government presumably just for the sake of doing so. I want to pay a tribute also in that context to the work of the Public Works Department so far as the Old Beach Road is concerned. Prior to 5 January the Old Beach Road was a road over which one travelled either if one really had to or if it was a very nice summer afternoon and one had plenty of time and did not mind one 's car rattling as one went for a picnic in that area. It was substantially a dirt road, although there were some sealed sections. It was an extremely narrow road. Sections of it went down to the water's edge. It was not a good road by any stretch of the imagination. I drove over it last Sunday. It is now a completely sealed road which takes traffic at high speed. All of that was accomplished in a period of barely 4 months. I believe that in the early stages work went on 6 days a week and continued until quite late into the evening. I believe that those responsible for that work, and in particular the workmen who worked on the road, are deserving of the thanks of the travelling public and all those people who will use that roadway. 
-That argument is nearly 20 years old. It was a matter of acute debate in the Tasmanian Parliament in the late 1950s, and it was a topic of special interest after the report of the committee to which  Senator Townley  has referred was brought down. Of course, anyone could tell from looking at the bridge that if a 10 000-ton ore carrier got madly off course and could not be stopped and was heading for the pylons that it would hit them. One does not have to be a genius or an engineer to know that. 
-The ship was not travelling on the road; it was travelling on the river. I was in Canberra having discussions with former  Senator Murphy  within a few days of the collapse of the bridge and he was indicating the attitude that the Commonwealth would take. He gave his characteristic gesture with his hair and said: 'Look, the ship ran into the bridge; the bridge did not run into the ship'. 
I can only suggest that  Senator Townley  should seek leave to appear before the Commission which is being established by this Bill and also appear before the joint task force which will be inquiring into the construction of a second bridge so that he can give both of those authorities the benefit of his views. It is no use  Senator Townley  simply making political speeches about this matter. 
I am suggesting that  Senator Townley  should formally seek to appear before the Commission and the joint task force before they make their decisions so that his views can be fully taken into account. 
I believe that if  Sir Allan  Knight,  Mr Warrell  and  Mr Donnelly,  who are the 3 people who have been appointed to that Commission, thought that they were perpetuat,me something that was unsafe they would direct the attention of the authorities to it. The record of the  Chairman  of the Commission,  Sir Allan  Knight, suggests- indeed, it cries out loudlythat he would never be a party to recommending anything which was not completely safe, in his judgment, in the public interest. I repeat that  Senator Townley,  instead of making political speeches and criticising the Minister for Defence by means of third hand unparticularised allegations, should ask the Commission and the joint task force whether he can appear before them. If he does not mind I will go along with him so that I can hear what he has to say. He should put his views to the engineers and to the associated experts who have the task of making recommendations, rather than put them to the Senate in the guise of a political speech. I wish to emphasise that the Interim Commission, according to an announcement published in the 'Mercury' today, will make a public progress report next Monday. If  Senator Townley  is still not satisfied, I think he ought to write to the Commission and say that he wishes to appear before it. If he does not mind and if he invites me, I will join him. We would be able to talk to the experts. 
-I am not an expert in this matter. 
-Dear, oh dear. I could continue talking about this matter, but a few weeks ago we had a fairly full debate on the problems of the people of southern Tasmania. 
-I am in a better position than the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Wriedt)  to answer that question because I had the discussion with  Senator Murphy,  as he then was, in Canberra within a week or so of the disaster. I forget the precise date. 
-Senator Rae suggests that it was on 9 January. As a result, a public statement was made by  Senator Murphy  that, without regard to means, persons who had claims in relation to the disaster would receive legal aid. I have not given the precise text of the statement I hope that answers  Senator Rae's  question. 
-That is so. I commend to every Tasmanian senator  Mr Broadby  's fair and honest letter in the 'Mercury' today. There is no room for any further carping criticism in this matter. It is a time for action. It is a time to accept the inevitable. It is a time for recognition of the extremely valuable work done by many persons in government, at both Australian and State level, to overcome the consequences of this disaster. 
The simple fact is that from a city which had virtually no ferry terminal facilities 4 months ago and a city which had virtually no ferry services, some 28 000 persons are being ferried across the Derwent River at Hobart 2 ways each working day. In anyone's language, that is not a bad effort. Private enterprise has played its part, and I recognise it. The Government has played its part also. I was disappointed yesterday morning to hear a question by  Senator Marriott  from which I drew the inference that he had hoped that the ferries which were towed from Sydney to Hobart would not complete the journey. They did. So long as they are able to continue in service the problems of ferrying persons between the 2 shores will be considerably minimised. I support the Bill completely. I make the brief and simple statement that in my view no Australian government could have done more, both at the time immediately following the disaster and in the intervening months, than the Australian Government did. I invite those who assert a proposition contrary to that proposition to give particulars of what the Australian Government should have done but did not do and what a Liberal government would have done which this Government has failed to do. I support the Bill. 
I cannot believe that the clarification of the issues between the Opposition and the Government on this measure will be assisted by a continuation of a lapse into the interstices of legalism in relation to this Bill or by a continuation of the union baiting to which we have been subjected in the last half an hour. 
The Inter-State Commission Bill 1975- we are debating this some 75 years after it was acknowledged that the Commission ought to be an integral part of the governmental structure of this nation- is of paramount importance, I suggest, to the economic development of this nation. It is essential to even-handed treatment for all Australians in the fields of trade and commerce. It establishes a necessary authority to prevent undue and unreasonable preferences and discriminations in interstate or overseas transport. It is a charter for fair dealing. It is a warning to the unscrupulous. It is a means of strengthening the economic fibre of this nation in terms of trade and commerce, both being fields in which transport plays an essential role. In particular, as far as Tasmania is concerned, it offers a long cherished hope that the inequalities and difficulties in the transport field from which that economically brittle State suffers will be alleviated and that Tasmania will enjoy transport services which, in the words of clause 1 1 of this Bill, will be reasonable and just. 
I was extremely interested to hear  Senator Wright  foreshadow amendments concerning Tasmania which he will move in the Committee stage. That suggests that at least he has not been frustrated and prevented from introducing amendments by the alleged speed with which this legislation is being presented to the Senate. On that I simply remind the Senate that it is some weeks since the Bill was first available in the House of Representatives. The curious thing about the amendments foreshadowed by  Senator Wright  is that they throw up the difference between the Government and the Opposition as to what the powers of the Inter-State Commission should be. I have not seen a written copy of the amendments, but I listened as closely as I could to them as they were read out briefly. 
It seems to me that anyone who asserts that they are a constitutional exercise of power pursuant to section 10 1 of the Constitution or pursuant to any other head of power is simply using the vehicle of this Inter-State Commission to pursue a campaign against unions for party political propaganda purposes. I will be interested to see the written record of these amendments. It seemed to me, as they were read, that they went far beyond any question of execution and maintenance of the provisions of the Constitution relating to trade and commerce and of any laws made thereunder. If this Bill is to be made a medium of attacks on unions and unionists and if the only purpose of Opposition amendmentswe have had only one foreshadowed tonight- is to take advantage of this Bill to attack unions and to attack unions in particular in relation to Tasmania, I suggest that the Opposition is unworthily using an extremely important piece of legislation to pursue party political advantage. 
The history of the framing of the sections of the Constitution under which this legislation is presented shows that the main concern of those who were engaged in the discussions was the degree of independence of the Commission. It is an interesting reflection that more than 75 years ago the thinking amongst the leading political figures should have been not whether there should be an Inter-State Commission but what its powers should be and the extent of the independence that it should enjoy from the government and any arm of government. It is not unuseful in this exercise to consider some of the speeches that were made in the convention debates that preceded the Constitution. In particular I should like to quote to the Senate tonight from the speech of a South Australian delegate, 

 Mr Kingston, whose amendment,, subject to a later widening of the provisions that he suggested, ultimately was adopted and became the precursor of section 101 of the Constitution. He urged that there should be a provision in the Constitution reading as follows: 
There shall be an Inter-State Commission - 
He said:   . . the better course would be, if we alter this clause, not to put in the Bill a direction to the Parliament that it shall legislate to constitute the . . . Commission, but rather, in so many plain words, say that there shall be a . . . Commission and then without any further interference  of Parliament  that body can be created. 
He said further: 
If we intend to have an Inter-State Commission let us say so in the plainest possible way . . . then it will simply necessitate an executive act to appoint the . . . Commission. Of course some legislation will be necessary to regulate (its) powers. 
That, I suggest, was an extremely naive statement, but an understandable statement in the political context of the time it was made. Of course it now appears from the tenor of this debate that the main issue between the Opposition and the Government is not the establishment of the Commission- that seems to be accepted as necessary- but the extent of its powers. It is natural that there should be disagreement between the parties as to the extent of the powers. On the propriety of the establishment of the Commission itself, let me quote from page 895 of Commentaries on the Constitution' by Quick and Garran, where the authors say: 
Until the Parliament provides for the number of members and their salary, the Commission cannot exist at all, and until the Parliament determines what powers of adjudication and administration are necessary to it, it can have no powers at all. The Parliament cannot, of course, be compelled- except by its constituents- to constitute a Commission or to give it any powers when constituted. The imperative words of this section, however, receive some support from that fact that S. 102 will be inoperative until such a Commission is constituted and given certain powers of adjudicating as to preferences and discriminations. 
I emphasise that quotation insofar as the use of the word 'imperative' is concerned.  Senator Wright  has referred to the American and British precedents- if I may use that expression- for an Inter-State Commission in this context. I suggest that those precedents do not throw any light on what ought to be the powers of this Commission in 1 975 and for the rest of this century and beyond. We ought to realise that in Australia we suffer from the grave disability that the central government, the Federal government- call it what you like- has completely inadequate economic powers, so much so that in December of 1973 it went to the people to obtain a constitutional change to give it power with respect to incomes and prices. The result, as we know, was that it failed. This is not a strong government, so far as law and constitution is concerned in the economic field. I have emphasised the point that there was an imperative direction in the Constitution to establish an interstate commission. One textbook writer's lament perhaps is worth quoting. He said: 
The layman could hardly be blamed if he drew the conclusion that an Inter-State Commission should have been established at the beginning of the Commonwealth and should be operating now. 
Of course, as we all know, it is a matter of history that the constitution of the Commission originally was ill-fated and that it met its real test in the wheat case of 1915. As a result of the judgment of the High Court in that case in that year, it became in effect a dead letter from then on. The judgment of the High Court- it will be noted that the judgment rested on the distinction made between the tenure of office of judges of the High Court and of members of the Commissionsounded the death-knell of the Commission. It was left as a body with only investigatory powers and incidental quasi-judicial powers. From then on- we are dealing with a period of nearly 60 years- there was no concerted governmental action to re-establish the Inter-State Commission on any basis, until the Whitlam Government took office in 1972. It is all very well for  Senator Wright  to say that some of its functions became unnecessary as a result of the establishment of the Tariff Board in the early 1920s and the Grants Commission in the first part of the 1930s. I suggest that the functions of those 2 bodies were far removed from what the founders of the Constitution had in mind and were far removed from what we in Australia need now, and that is a body to remove preferences and discriminations in the field of trade and commerce in general, and in transport particularly. 
It is also a matter of history that subsequent efforts to reconstitute the Commission failed, despite the recommendations of the royal commission of the late 1920s and the recommendations of the Joint Committee on Constitutional Review of the late 1950s. The Opposition which now berates the Government for the quantum of power which is conferred by this Bill was in office for 14 years after the 1957 Joint Parliamentary Committee issued a report in which it recommended the re-establishment of the InterState Commission. On no basis of power did the Opposition, when in government during that period of thirteen to fourteen years, move in any way to re-establish the body which it now says ought to be an integral part of the national economy of Australia, provided the powers are right. 
I will deal with that later on in some detail, if I may. I would assert to the Senate that it is perfectly clear that the InterState Commission was intended by the founders to be essential- I emphasise the word 'essential' to the constitutional machinery and to the federal structure of the Commonwealth. One can draw that inference very simply from the structure of the Constitution- chapter 1 dealing with the Parliament, chapter 2 dealing with the Executive, chapter 3 dealing with the judiciary and a separate chapter 4 dealing with trade and commerce and containing the very provisions which are the basis of this legislation, namely in sections 101 and following sections. 
Now I move to what  Senator Hall  has just said. In the House of Representatives some frightening expressions were used. It was said that it would be an horrendous body, that it would be a monstrous fourth arm of government. Now  Senator Wright  has foreshadowed amendments which would make it the greatest source of trouble between government and industry that Australia has ever known. But we will deal with those amendments when we come to them in Committee. I would say to  Senator Hall  and to other senators that the Opposition has had this legislation for several weeks. It appears to be acknowledged that there ought to be an InterState Commission, although that recognition may be belated so far as the Opposition is concerned. Surely, then, it is simply a question of the nature and the extent of the powers. 
-Thank you,  Sir Magnus.  Surely it is acknowledged that there will be differences between 2 political parties with respect to what is considered proper as the nature and extent of the powers. 
-Very well. Why cannot the Opposition in what is a simple Bill - 
It is simple so far as expression and drafting are concerned. 
I say nothing about the words of section 92 and whether they are simple or otherwise. All I say is that if the Opposition were genuine in its desire to re-establish an InterState Commission, would it not, when it saw this legislation some weeks ago, have said: 'We will go through it with a fine tooth comb, and we will seek to eliminate such parts of it as we consider go beyond a proper horizon for this Commission'? How long would it have taken the Opposition to do so- a week, a fortnight, 3 weeks, a month? Give it a month. The Opposition would have been ready to deal with the Bill tonight. But what I strongly suspect, and what the public strongly suspects, is that the Opposition has not got its marching orders from the interests it represents. 
-That is not so? The honourable senator surprises me. I strongly suspect that the Opposition is waiting until it can collate and correlate all the objections it gets to the powers of this Commission from the interests which it represents- the vested interests involved in trade and commerce, the vested interests involved in transport. When the Opposition has received all those and has marshalled them, it will seek to move amendments during the Committee stage of this debate. That is the way this Opposition works. Of course the allegedly inadequate time did not prevent  Senator Wright  from being able to draft and to notify the Senate tonight of the contents of a number of amendments aimed at the unionists- not aimed to benefit Tasmania but aimed at the unionists.  His  derogatory remarks about attempts in the past to persuade unions to exempt Tasmania from strikes did not impress me. I have been involved in such negotiations, with some degree of success on one occasion. The Tasmanian Government, I have no doubt, will continue to make responsible requests and proper requests to unions. I trust that it will receive a responsible answer in future, as it has on most occasions in the past. 
There have been some exceptions. I would not concede the word 'notable'. In the most recent case there was an exemption. In previous cases related to this much vaunted 2-airlines system there were a number of exceptions. An island State accepts what it can get. It does not complain. It certainly does not complain by way of a display of anti-unionism on the floor of the Senate, as  Senator Wright  did tonight and as it seems he will continue to do in future. 
I do not lapse into legalism, but the point I wish to make is that the purpose of the InterState Commission, as it was envisaged by the framers of the Constitution was that it was designed to deal with problems which arose from discrimination so far as valid laws were concerned. As  Senator Gietzelt  said earlier tonight, there is no question of the Commission being able to legislate. All it can do is act in relation to preferences and discrimination under valid laws. I think it is pertinent in that context that I should quote to the Senate what was said by a former Chief Justice,  Mr Justice  Latham, in the Riverina transport case. He said: 
The practical difficulty in securing the freedom of interstate trade does not arise mainly from the risk of invalid legislation. Such legislation when detected is of no effect.  . .  Curial  action could only create a blank. ... A court may believe that certain railway rates are essentially discriminatory against another State, but the court cannot construct a new schedule and make it operative. The InterState Commission, acting under appropriate Federal Statute, is expressly designed to deal with just such problems by executing and maintaining' Federal Statutes. 
I believe that His Honour's example of discriminatory railway rates in that extract that I have read is apt in this debate. Section 102 of the Constitution, which is concerned with railways, does not actually forbid discriminatory rates as being contrary to the Constitution. It is not dealing with invalid State legislation; it is dealing with the discriminatory administration of statutes which Parliament may, pursuant to that provision in the Constitution, forbid. That is what this is all about. Surely it is just a question of what the Commission's powers ought to be. As the Commission has been, in practice and in effect, a dead body for some 60 years- since 1950 it has been completely legally dead- as the Joint Select Committee on Constitutional Review which met from 1957 to 1959 reported that there should be an Inter-State Commission, and after all the references, including the report of the Senate Select Committee on Off-shore Petroleum resources which some years ago contained a similar recommendation, surely the Opposition is able to crystallise its thinking by tonight or tomorrow as to what the powers of the Commission should be. Why does the Opposition have to wait until next August to do this? From whom is it waiting to hear? The strong suspicion is that it is waiting to hear from electoral masters; and they are not the ordinary electors of Australia, they are the interests which in may cases instruct the Opposition what it ought to do. 
Since it is simply a question of what the powers of the Commission ought to be, and since it is a question that the Government sees the powers that are contained in this Bill as proper, I should imagine there would be circumstances in which the Government would be prepared to accept amendments moved by the Opposition so long as they did not make the Commission a completely toothless tiger. The powers can be built up.  Senator Withers  who led for the Opposition in this debate expressed his perplexity as to what the powers given in clause 17 involved. He said that he did not understand it. I suggest that all that clause 17 does is to complete by enumeration through different clauses the powers of the Commission. The clause in itself does not confer any new powers. It states: 
The Commission has power to do any act or thing that it is authorised to do in pursuance of any law made under the provisions of the Constitution relating to trade and commerce . . . 
Under that clause the Commission cannot do anything which it is not authorised by an Act of this Parliament to do. The clause does not give the Commission any more power. So far as I am concerned, if the Parliament crosses out clause 17 there is no harm done to the structure of the Commission or to its powers. 
I will accept what the honourable senator says. My memory is not good enough to remember that precisely. The clause gives no further power than the Commission already has. I am sorry, but I just do not know why  Senator Withers  should say that he does not understand the clause. The crux of this matter is that by establishing the Commission there will be created a body initially to co-ordinate and operate generally in the area of transport, but ultimately a body to execute and maintain all trade and commerce provisions under the Constitution. It will be a specialist organisation which will administer and supervise the area of trade and commerce considered as a whole. It will act in special matters such as transport, but I am not so naive as to think that if the Commission is established, in 10 years' time it will not be operating much more widely than in transport. The Government has said that the Commission's initial function is to concentrate on transport. When there are given powers that go far beyond transport, of course, we ought to assume that in the course of time the Commission will be operating in a wider field than transport. I concede that the Bill opens the way- but certainly subject to regulations which may be disallowed by this Parliament- for the execution of the functions of other bodies. 
Yes. But we should realise that there is a need in Australia for a national outlook to be adopted and for us to forget this shibboleth of people in various States being subject to different rights and obligations; of people in Queensland not being able to read Playboy' without being prosecuted, when people in South Australia can read it. Let us forget the fact that civil servants in England a long time ago drew artificial State boundaries in this country. Let us act like Australians, because that is what we are. 
I would hope that the rift between Australia and Queensland would not become equiparated with the traditional and historical rift between Scotland and England. 
I believe Queensland does not have any Stone of Scone. My time is almost over and I will conclude on this note: I regret that I have not had time to go through the detailed provisions of this Bill, but the Committee stage will afford an opportunity to do that. The simple fact is that the Government says that it wants an Inter-State Commission. The Opposition says that it wants an Inter-State Commission. Surely it is simply a question of what the Commission's powers ought to be. If amendments are made at the Committee stage, at the insistence of the Opposition, for heaven's sake do not let us make this Commission a toothless tiger, as I have said, which will fall into disarray as the Commission of more than 50 years ago fell into disarray. Our founders and the Parliament of 191 1-12 considered that there should be an Inter-State Commission. That concept became the victim of political whim in the first decade of Federation; it was the victim of political timidity between 1912 and 1920; and it has been the victim of political inertia for the past half century. This Parliament is now able to embrace the opportunity for which the way was opened by the Constitution. We should not shrink from that opportunity. We should not be pettifogging in our arguments as to the extent of power which ought to be conferred on the Commission. We should be bold; we should be definite; we should be national in our outlook. We should pass this Bill. 
I express myself as puzzled by the Opposition's attitude in this matter. It seems to me that the effect of the amendment is to reduce the requirement, so far as the content of that requirement is concerned, to consult and co-operate. If the words are omitted, the clause would read: 'the Commission shall consult and co-operate,' etc. That consultation and co-operation could be halfhearted or desultory, or it could take place twice a year. That is the sort of thing that could happen under the Opposition's amendment. The Government on the other hand says that it is prepared to accept an obligation on the Commission that that consultation and co-operation shall be to the greatest extent practicable. To delete those words would be to limit the requirement for consultation and co-operation, not to expand it. I see no difference between the parties in what is desirable in this matter but I suggest to the Opposition that its amendment will be counterproductive and is not designed to achieve its purpose. If we omitted the words 'to the greatest extent practicable' we would be saying: 'Well, when the Commission feels like it and to the extent that it feels desirable it shall consult and co-operate'. To leave the words in would mean that it is a continuous requirement to the greatest extent that is practicable. I suggest that the words are common in statutes and should remain. 
I have been tempted to speak extremely briefly in this debate because I am surprised that the question of the designation of the  Chairman  of the Grants Commission should attract such disputation. The issue seems to be whether he should be addressed, in the course of his normal duties, as 'your honour'. I have heard some very different titles applied to judges when I have been in robing rooms, especially after cases, but we are not concerned with that aspect. As I see the situation there are 2 main points to be made. Firstly, the mere deletion of the word 'designation' would not, I suggest, achieve the purpose of the Opposition even if that purpose were to be considered a proper one because if you have the rank, if you have the status, and if you have the precedence of a judge of the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory, surely those attributes would carry with them the appellation of 'your honour', at least in the minds of most persons. How can you have the rank of a judge and not the appellation? How can you have the status of a judge conferred expressly by statute and not the appellation? 
Because it means what you call him. 
-To achieve that purpose you would have to draft the Bill in this way: 'He shall have the rank, status and precedence but not the designation of a judge of the Supreme Court'. That really is what the Opposition is seeking to do and I suggest that would be absurd. It would be even more absurd when one would hope that, as with the present incumbent of that office, in future persons who have acquired a very high judicial reputation will be attracted to this position. I am not one of those people who sets any store by a name. I think a person builds his reputation in a situation like this by the quality of the way in which he performs his duties and not by what he is called by all and sundry. If we are to attract persons who, if they continued in their existing judicial office, would on retirement retain by practice a designation which fitted the judicial office they had held, is it right to expect a person leaving a judgeship and taking on the chairmanship of the Grants Commission to be stripped of the title by which he was known, probably for many years? 
I do not know. It may be that in retirement the title of 'your honour' might be of some use. 
-It has no force. 
I have put 2 arguments, each of which I think is cogent, why the Opposition's amendment ought not be accepted. The first argument is particularly important because I suggest that by the amendment the Opposition simply would be leaving the situation unaltered. I repeat that to achieve the Opposition's purpose the Bill would have to be amended so as to state that the person concerned shall have the rank, status and precedence other than the designation. I suggest that that would be an extremely insulting situation. 
-The Administrative Appeals Tribunal Bill now before the Senate represents, in my submission, a milestone in the evolution of the Australian legal system. I say that because this is the first time an attempt has been made to establish the legislative framework for an administrative appeals system on a national and a co-ordinated basis. The Bill, when analysed, is seen to create a new stream of rights for the benefit of the public, and I suggest that that stream will undoubtedly grow in the future both in its breadth and in the nature of the rights it contains. For those reasons I suggest that this Bill is an historic one, and it behoves the Senate to appreciate the true importance and significance of the legislation. I join with  Senator Greenwood  in paying tribute to the work of the 2 committees whose labours have led to this legislation- the Kerr Committee and the Bland Committee. 
Because I believe that this is an historic Bill, I think it is necessary to go back a little in history and look at the development of administrative law, as it is sometimes called, in the English speaking system. We had reached a position in England about a century ago when Maitland, the famous legal and constitutional historian, was able to write in 1888: 
If you take up a modern volume of the reports of the Queen's Bench Division, you will find that about half the cases reported have to do with rules of administrative law; I mean with such matters as local rating, the powers of local boards, the granting of licences for various trades and professions, the Public Health Acts, the Education Acts, and so forth. 
It will be noted that that was written a century ago and the position, as I will indicate shortly, has altered considerably since then so that the intrusion of the state, under whatever form of party political rule, into the personal and business affairs of individuals has reached a stage at which unless there is a barrier in the shape of an appropriate appellate system against the exercise of this discretion, the individual, the company, the firm, is liable to be trampled upon. 
I think it is also appropriate to record that the system of review, the framework for which is embodied in this Bill, has not always found favour in English law. Students of the law will recall that great legal minds such as that of Dicey were considerably against the development of any such stream of law. The reason for that, as was given over many decades, was that such a system as is embraced within this Bill ran counter to the concept of the rule of law, and the argument went that the rule of law implied the absence of wide discretionary powers in the Government affecting the personal liberty, the private property rights and the freedom of contract of individuals. The argument went further, saying that the courts were the appropriate places in which any excesses of power, any wrong exercise of jurisdiction- but not on the merits- should be tested. 
So it was that, going back into last century, the traditional approach was to deny that English law had any appropriate place for what was termed the droit administratif of France. That system was not a popular concept under English law, and one expression applied to it was that it was 'an unEnglish interloper'. But a change has taken place in recent decades, a change which I suggest has been dictated by political considerations and by a realisation by governments that it is essential to protect the rights of individuals, especially in view of the increasing intrusion of the state into other affairs; that the extremely wide powers often of necessity put on a discretionary basis, and exercised by Ministers and officials, should be subject to proper checks and balances. So it is that in this decade one can say with confidence that the concept of the system embraced within this Bill, the concept of the development of a body of administrative law as a consequence of it, is completely accepted within the jurisprudence of English speaking countries. I quote one sentence from a recent judgment of Lord Denning in a case in 1971 in which he said: 
It may truly now be said that we have a developed system of administrative law. 
Moving to Australia, at a national level the move to develop an administrative legal system has been extremely slow. It has been ad hoc and motivated essentially by political considerations, but there is now a realisation in Government- I believe this applies to both sides of the Housethat where wide discretions are conferred by statute on Ministers and officials there will almost automatically be an accompanying conferring of jurisdiction on an appropriate tribunal. 
As I have said, however, to date the development has been ad hoc. I shall cite just 3 recent examples. In February this year, even though there was no statutory basis for it, the Australian Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  established a system on an administrative basis of reviewing decisions within his sphere of ministerial jurisdiction, in particular in relation to the Social Services Act. As I have said, that had no statutory basis, but appeal tribunals were set up in February this year. They are operating nationally and their purpose was precisely the purpose that is sought to be effectuated by this Bill. 
A second recent example is the National Compensation Bill introduced into this Senate, and which is the subject of an inquiry by a committee of the Senate. That Bill is riddled with instances of the conferring of jurisdiction on, in that case, officials. I do not doubt that when the report of the committee finally reaches this chamber it will contain some detailed references to that. But that Bill recognised the necessity in the public interest to provide an appellate system in order to review the exercise of that discretion. Honourable senators will recall that in that Bill there is provision- it remains to be determined whether it is adequate- whereby all those discretions can be reviewed. 
The third and most recent example was contained in a measure introduced in this chamber this afternoon whereby in the Superannuation Bill it is provided, I think in clause 158, that regulations may be made providing for a review of the exercise of the discretion of the Superannuation Commissioner under that Bill. So the need for review of administrative decisions is completely recognised by this Government and this Parliament. The point I should like to make is that this Bill, in one giant stride, sweeps away the past efforts to give true justice in the field of administrative law and replaces them with one tribunal, admittedly operating of necessity in divisions, and exercising whatever jurisdiction Parliament confers on it. 
In the debate in the House of Representatives the main thrust of the arguments was that the Bill provided a check on the exercise of discretion by Ministers and public servants in areas in which increasingly the Executive steps into the personal activities of individuals and business enterprise. I simply quote from a well known writer in the field of administrative law. Professor Wade in simple words illustrates the breadth of the problem with which this type of legislation is designed to deal. He writes in the second edition of his work 'Administrative Law': 
During the last hundred years the conception of the true sphere of governmental activity has been transformed. Instead of confining itself to defence, public order, the criminal law, and a few other general matters, the modern state also provides elaborate social services and undertakes the regulation of much of the daily business of mankind. The state has seized the initiative, and has put upon itself all kinds of new duties. Hand in hand with these new duties must go new powers. In order to carry out so many schemes of social service and control, powerful engines of authority have to be set in motion. To prevent them running amok there must be constant control, both political and legal. 
This Bill provides the means of establishing control in the second aspect to which Professor Wade referred. Although that was the thrust of the debate in the House of Representatives the main point which the Senate ought to appreciate fully and which the public must never be allowed to forget is that the scheme proposed by this Bill will permit reviews of decisions on their merits. I believe it was  Senator Greenwood  who referred to the jurisdiction of tribunals to substitute decisions of their own on matters of discretion for the decisions that were being appealed against. I invite the attention of the Senate to clause 26 of the Bill which is the main provision in relation to jurisdiction. The words used are that the Tribunal will have jurisdiction to review: 
... decisions made in the exercise of powers conferred by that enactment; or 
... decisions made in the exercise of powers conferred, or that may be conferred, by another enactment having effect under that enactment. 
I appreciate that it may well be that some amendment of those formal words may be made during the Committee stage, but the point is that the whole concept of the Bill is to provide for review of decisions on their merits and that being the case the public is able to have confidence that arbitrary decisions will not be made, that decisions that are unreasoned, contrary to fact, unreasonable or otherwise such as from any sense of justice should not be made. 
One would ask in the light of the extremely wide jurisdiction conferred by this Bill: What does it mean to the citizen, to the firm, to the company? Until the development of a system of reviewing decisions at the administrative level the rights of persons flowed from 2 main sources. Firstly, the rights that were conferred on them by statutes- specific rights enforceable in the courts- and secondly, the rights which they were entitled to enjoy by virtue of the common law. We all know as a matter of history that long ago it was realised in English law that the common law had many inadequacies and was in many respects too rigid. So we had the development of a new stream of legal jurisdiction, namely, equity. It is interesting to recall that it is exactly 100 years ago that common law and equity, which had developed because of the rigours of the common law, were fused under one system in England under the provisions of the Judicature Act 1 875. So they were the 2 streams until this recent trend towards the conferring of power to review administrative decisions. This Bill takes the matter considerably farther and extends the scope. So it is that we now have a third stream of rights and they are those that I have already referred to in clause 26. 
I think that one or two significant matters ought to be referred to so far as the detail of the Bill is concerned. It will be noted as far as the composition of the Tribunal is concerned that essentially the membership is to be judicial in character. One notices the lengths to which the Government has gone to ensure that the Tribunal will comprise persons who are properly qualified to act and generally I suggest will be of high calibre. One thing one notes in that context is that- I am very pleased indeed to see this - there has been no overt attempt in the Bill to introduce into the appellate structure a representative or a member of the government department which is affected by the decision that is under appeal, but I am not certain myself that that necessarily follows as a matter of construction. I refer the Senate to clause 7 of the Bill. Clause 6 (3) provides that a non-presidential member shall be appointed either as a full-time member or as a part-time member. When one reads that in conjunction with clause 7 (2) relating to part-time members it does seem to me that it would be possible under clause 7 (2) for representatives of departments to be appointed on a part-time basis. I suggest that even though that is possible it would be an undesirable step. There should be no involvement of departments, I suggest. The appeal system should flow purely and simply to a completely independent body. 
As  Senator Greenwood  remarked, both sides of politics have played a part in the emergence of this legislation. I therefore suggest that both sides of politics can be proud to see legislation before the Senate which crystallises- that is the point; it crystallises- the granting to the public at large of coherent rights in relation to matters which impinge on their private and their business rights. This I suggest is the more so because the intrusion of the state is increasing and the scope of discretions become wider. I think they reached a height, as I have already indicated, in the National Compensation Bill. There does seem to have been a spirit of co-operation abroad, both in the House of Representatives and in the Senate, in relation to the detail of this Bill. 
I acknowledge that the amendment in relation to the Administrative Review Council was suggested, as I understand it, initially by the Opposition in the House of Representatives and the Government has embraced that suggestion. One warning that I would wish to issue is that the public should not have the impression that the passing of this legislation provides an immediate panacea for all their ills in relation to the exercise of administrative discretions. A large area of governmental activity will still be beyond the power of this Parliament to influence- that is, the discretions which arise under the State legislation. I hope that this legislation, if it is passed, will be adopted and adapted by all States. Only if it is could it be said that there will be virtually complete protection, so far as can be granted in practical terms, throughout the nation. It remains for this Parliament to determine the scope of the jurisdiction of the tribunals. 
There seem to be competing amendments. It would seem to me to be a pity if they could not be treated as 2 packs of cards, shuffled together and the best produced out of them. I have not had time tonight to have a look at the Opposition's proposed amendment to the schedule so far as jurisdiction is concerned but I understand from  Senator Greenwood  that it follows precisely the amendment which was foreshadowed, if not actually moved, in the House of Representatives. I do not believe that any difficulty is caused by the fact that it will be, I imagine, at least some months before the full breadth of the jurisdiction of the tribunals is crystalised by the action of the Parliament. I do not believe that that is necessarily bad. I would prefer that a substantial body of jurisdiction be conferred initially on the tribunals, and that must be the result whether the proposed amendments of one side or the other are finally accepted. Nevertheless, care should be taken to ensure that when the amending legislation, which I imagine will be necessary, is introduced into this Parliament it is as complete as possible and follows substantially the recommendations in the Bland Committee report. 
With the realisation that each time this Parliament passes new legislation it confers discretions upon Ministers and public officers, the Parliament must apply its mind specifically to the conferring of jurisdiction on the tribunals constituted by this Bill. The Parliament will become accustomed to doing it, and I hope that within a comparatively short period this third stream of legal rights which are now being injected into the armoury of the citizen will be regarded as something which is completely automatic. I suggest that if we reach that situation within 3 years our legal system will be as pure as perhaps it has been suggested the British legal system can be. I reserve my right to speak on the other matters which will be discussed at the Committee stage. For those reasons I indicate my support for the Bill. 
I suggest that the first amendment arises from a misconception of the power given by sub-clause (2) of clause 40 to a member of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. That sub-clause provides: 
The member who is to preside at the hearing of a proceeding before the Tribunal may- 
summon a person to appear . . . 
The cases in which the Tribunal will itself initiate a move to summon a witness will be very rare. That sub-clause is designed to provide in a Tribunal the ordinary power to issue subpoenas to witnesses. I suggest that is why it is included.  Senator Wright  seems to have some doubt about it. How does a party to the proceedings get a relevant witness before the Tribunal, except by invoking this power? That is what legal men do when they send their clerks to the Supreme Court to get a subpoena ad testificandum. 
-Not necessarily. I suggest that the real purpose of clause 40 (2) is to provide the power for parties to be able to summon witnesses through the machinery of the Tribunal, just as they do now through the machinery of the courts. I apprehend that  Senator Wright  does not agree with me. He can express his views if he wishes. If my contention is correct, the proposed new sub-clause (3A) puts the witnesses in a supremely superior position to the position of witnesses before ordinary courts. I agree with  Senator Wright  that they should not be in such a position. 
I would apply the same reasoning to the second amendment. Why should persons who give evidence before this Tribunal be in any position different from or more privileged than that of the witnesses who appear before the ordinary courts? I think it would be wrong to start off the exercise of this Tribunal's jurisdiction by distinguishing between traditionally established rights. I add one further point. I do not know, because I have not devoted my mind to it, whether the Tribunal would have the power to issue a certificate under the Evidence Act. I believe that the Evidence Act in most States provides for the issue of a certificate. It may be that by virtue of the application of clause 49 (3) that would be so. I would like to think about it. I think this matter could be resolved on the simple basis that we ought not to put witnesses appearing before this Tribunal in any privileged position. For those reasons, at this stage I oppose both amendments. 
-May I add these brief considerations? It would seem to me unfortunate, especially in view of the speeches that were made on the second reading of this Bill, if by a positive amendment we were to reduce the status of this Tribunal, including a tribunal sitting alone via the  President,  below the so-called status of the Supreme Court of a State or Territory. I do not believe that that is a concept which honourable senators on either side of the chamber have of this new body. 
Secondly- although it is not our concern, I suppose, to worry about the domestic position of States- I wonder what the judges of Supreme Courts of States or Territories will say when they look at the salaries given to the  President  and  Deputy President  of this Tribunal, then look at their own salaries and say: 'Goodness gracious me, we must exercise appeal jurisdiction from this Tribunal. Look at our salaries and look at theirs'. I suggest that that is not an irrelevant consideration. 
Thirdly, I know that the great difficulty in this matter arises from the fact that there is not a Superior Court. If the Opposition persists in its attitude, it may be that there never will be a Superior Court. That being so, surely it would be better when we are starting out to provide a legislative framework for the development of administrative law in Australia- that is the ultimate that we are setting out to achieve- that the appeal should be to a body which has been established under the laws of this Parliament. I add those 3 reasons to those given by the Minister for Manufacturing Industry  (Senator James 
McClelland) and would urge the Opposition to consider them. 
It is understandable that there is some confusion in these matters but I believe that clause 26 (2) has to be considered initially separately from the Schedule because it appears in a clause which provides for the conferring of power, the giving of power, and not for any subtraction from it, because sub-clause ( 1 ) provides: 
An enactment may provide that application may be made to the Tribunal- 
for the review of decisions . . . .;or 
for review . . . That is the origin of the power under clause 26 and the purpose of sub-clause (2) is simply to provide that where an enactment does confer that power- not takes it away- if there is any inconsistency resulting by virtue of the provision of the Schedule, to that extent the Schedule does not operate. I believe that to be the true purpose of sub-clause (2). 
Amendment agreed to. 
-My question follows that recently asked by  Senator Chaney.  I ask the Leader of the Government: Has his attention been directed to a story on the front page of today's 'Australian' the headline of which is Labor Wins Support in Tasmania'? Figures are included in the body of the report which show that Australian Labor Party backing increased by an extraordinary 17 per cent in March and April of this year. I ask the Minister: Does he regard that extraordinary rise in Australian Labor Party support as reflective of the appreciation in Tasmania of the policies of the Government, in particular in the field of manufacturing industry as instanced by its support for the Electrolytic Zinc Company of Australasia Ltd and for Associated Pulp and Paper Mills Ltd and by many other measures? 
-Can the Minister for Foreign Affairs inform the Senate whether there is any truth in the allegations made recently by  Mr Peacock,  M.H.R., that an independent Papua New Guinea might turn to other countries such as Russia or China for aid? 
-I can only express keen disappointment at the attitude of the Opposition to this measure, because its attitude is against the public interest in 3 principal respects. Firstly its attitude will deprive the public of the benefit of competition in areas of insurance in which competition is desirable and will leave the public at the mercy of private insurers, many of which obviously are ailing. I make no blanket condemnation of insurance companies. I simply state facts and for particularity I refer to a lot of the evidence that was given publicly to the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs in relation to the National Compensation Bill. Secondly, the attitude of the Opposition in opposing this measure denies the public the benefits of natural disaster insurance which private insurers for obvious reasons are unable to provide. Unfortunately this nation has experienced in recent years a number of natural disasters, in particular the Queensland floods and the Darwin cyclone, in relation to which, if it had not been for the beneficient attitude of this Government, many people would have experienced personal financial disaster. It is no answer to that criticism for  Senator Cotton  on behalf of the Opposition to say that the insurance industry would like to discuss with the Government a proposition. Again, that is too little too late. Thirdly, the attitude of the Opposition fails to stem the trend towards an unhealthy preponderance of foreign ownership and control of insurance interests, and I will give some details of that in a moment. 
I have referred to the attitude of the Opposition. Of course, that attitude was not declared without considerable vacillation and indecision on the part of the Opposition. Let me remind the Senate of the chronology of the matter. The Bill was first introduced into the House of Representatives on 23 April. In the first part of May the Press of Australia, particularly the Melbourne  Age  on 3 May, carried stories indicating a rift within the Opposition over its attitude to this Bill. It was argued, in the Press, and it has not been denied, that the Opposition was undecided as to whether it should seek to amend this Bill in accordance with some of the matters indicated by  Senator Cotton  this afternoon and indicated also in the House of Representatives or whether it should oppose the Bill in toto. On 15 May in the House of Representatives the Opposition sought unsuccessfully to defer consideration of the Bill in that House until the Budget session, and it was only this week that the Opposition in a public statement declared that it would use its numbers in the Senate to defeat this Bill. In reaching that view I would maintain that the Opposition has succumbed to the pressure of vested interests which underly the opposition of the private insurers to this measure. 
By way of preliminary consideration of this Bill I suggest that 2 questions must be asked and must be answered. The first is: Is the private insurance industry in a position to claim that it has the right to exclude the State from operating within the insurance field? I would submit that the answer to that question is surely no. I draw the attention of the Senate to an article published in the  Insurance Record  quite recently containing an address by  Dr Diehl  the  Deputy  General Manager of the Swiss Reinsurance Company in Zurich, delivered to the World Insurance Conference in London in March 1974. 1 will quote 2 passages from it.  Dr Diehl  made it perfectly plain that as the public and the insurance industry faced the 1980s it was quite clear that there had to be a government involvement in the insurance industry. I quote from the second page of his article appearing in the  Insurance Record.  He said: 
Insurance, as we all know, is only one form of risk management. There are other forms like 'avoiding' and 'reducing risks' and 'self-insurance'. To panic at any government activity in the area of 'risk' is just as unsuitable a response as to cry for help from the state as soon as any difficulties appear. 
On the third page of that article,  Dr Diehl  said: 
What the insurance industry is still practising in many places- nothing more than performing the function of distributing losses among the group of insureds- will most probably no longer be enough to convince the critical consumer of the 1 980s and it will give him another case for saying that this is actually something the state could do, at least in certain classes of business. 
-He is the  Deputy  General Manager of the Swiss Reinsurance Company operating in Zurich, Switzerland, and he was addressing the World Insurance Conference in London in March last year. 
I would have thought that, in view of the history of financial institutions in Switzerland, if one reached the position of Deputy General Manager of the Swiss Reinsurance Company one would be no slouch with regard to insurance or reinsurance. 
If the honourable senator would like a biographical account of the achievements of  Dr Diehl  I will let him have it at some later stage, but the fact that he opens the way in his address for the involvement of the state in insurance is not insignificant. It will be remember that he is a reinsurer, and I will say something about reinsurance because that is one of the great defects of the Australian insurance industry at the moment. 
-Time is limited on Wednesday and I will be delighted to answer questions from the honourable senator on Thursday. The second question that ought to be asked and answered is: Does the private insurance sector fulfil the needs of the public at present and is it likely to be able to fulfil those needs as we approach the 1980s? For a number of reasons which I will discuss, I submit the answer to that question is clearly no. The first reason I say that is that it is increasingly acknowledged that private insurers are much more interested in obtaining moneys for investment- there is nothing wrong with that- than in providing the insurance cover that the public needs and that the public will need because the public is becoming much more critical in its contacts with business interests, as is instanced in the field of consumer protection. In other words, the development of the insurance industry along the traditional lines that we inherited from the British insurance industry means that service is subordinated to the availability of investment funds. That is proved by the fact that the main thrust of  Senator Cotton's  speech this afternoon was that the private insurance interests have been able over the decades, and centuries perhaps, to amass capital funds to such an extent that they command approximately 10 per cent of the capital investment funds available in Australia today. 
-The Australian people?  Senator Cotton  will find that the figure is not very different in relation to the other matter 1 have mentioned. Of course, the Australian people have funds available for investment and I take  Senator Cotton  upon his point at this stage. I submit that there is not the slightest validity in the suggestion that this Bill, as he says, provides for a form of compulsory exaction of the savings of the people. There is nothing in the Bill about that. If in fact the Corporation, if it were established, were so successful that any significant part of the savings of the people of Australia found its way into the hands of the Corporation that would be a tribute to the Corporation's efficiency and an indictment of the present insurance system. It has never been the intention or even the hope of the Government that that position would emerge to that degree. On the same point I would remind  Senator Cotton  that it is quite false to suggest, as he did, that the Australian Government is seeking by this measure to be able to assist its own financial position, its cash position. The premiums are the property of the Corporation, and the only extent to which the Government has any interest in or power over the funds of the Corporation lies in the financial provisions, to which I shall refer later, under which the level of profit that ought to be aimed at by the Corporation can be determined by the Minister. Those provisions do not justify the claim of  Senator Cotton  that this Corporation is in effect a vehicle for the compulsory exaction of the savings of the people. Nothing could be farther from the truth. 
To get an indication of the extent to which the private insurance industry, by its monopoly of insurance, is able to attract to itself for reinvestment the savings of the people, I refer to the figures that were given officially by the Minister for Overseas Trade,  Mr Crean,  when this matter was debated in the House of Representatives. They appear at page 2360 of  Hansard  of 1 5 May. The figures the Minister revealed were these: Life insurance premiums were running at about $2,000m per annum, general insurance premiums were running at about $ 1,500m per annum, and the cost of collecting and administering that amount of $3,500m was $900m. That means that in a completely uncontentious area it costs $ 1 to administer each $4 of premiums collected. Can that be said to be efficient? Those figures would be very much in line with the figures recently given publicly to the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs to which I referred earlier. 
The second point that arises under the question 'Are the private insurers fulfilling the needs of the public?' is that of foreign ownership and control. It is in that area that for 23 years while the present Opposition was in government it let a situation develop about which it can be said that the private insurance industry within Australiaat least, so far as general insurance is concerned and not insignificantly so far as life insurance is concerned- is very largely in foreign hands. What do the figures show? The best figures of which I am aware on that point are official figures of the Australian Bureau of Statistics. The general insurance figures indicate that for 1973-74 the level of foreign control was 45 per cent and the level of Australian control was 55 per cent, but a little over 20 per cent of that 55 per cent represented the activities of State government insurance enterprises. Those figures do not include reinsurance, to which I shall refer specifically in a moment. Because of the existence of mutual life companies in Australia, the position with respect to life insurance is somewhat better; but even in that field, where the lives of Australians are concerned, foreign ownership accounts for 36.8 per cent of life insurance cover for the 1 3.5 million people in Australia. 
-The point I am trying to make is that it is about time something that bore the label of Australia was intruded into the insurance industry and the massive sellout to foreign interests was not continued- and the sellout is continuing.  Senator Webster  should look at the figures that were quoted by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in the House of Representatives. They appear at page 2375 of  Hansard.  Let us look at those figures and see what is happening. 
It is pretty clear that what I am saying is unpalatable to Opposition senators. When they have to intrude arguments about $4,000m worth of foreign loans when I am giving formal statistics in relation to the degree of control of the Australian insurance industry. Opposition senators prove that they have gravel for matter. 
At page 2375 of the House of Representatives Hansard some interesting figures were given. They were extracted by the Prime Minister from evidence that was given by the Life Insurance Commissioner and the Australian Actuary to the Senate Select Committee on Foreign Ownership and Control. They revealed the startling fact that the number of Australian owned or controlled life companies fell from twenty in 1946 to thirteen in 1 97 1 , while the number of foreign owned or controlled companies increased in that period from two to thirty-five. The trend continued after that, and by December 1973 the number of foreign owned life offices had increased again and the number of Australian owned offices stood at twelve while the number of foreign owned offices was thirty-six. Is that a situation which the Opposition wants to continue? Does it want the position to reach a stage at which the preponderance of the insurance interests of this nation, including life insurance interests, is held overseas? The answer should be 'yes' or 'no'; there is nothing in between. 
I do not hate overseas people, but I do like Australians. Let us look at the reinsurance position. It really shows the extent to which the insurance interests of Australia are held overseas. It is impossible to get statistics- I have sought them, but I have been told that they are just not available- on the extent of reinsurance so far as Australian premiums are concerned. Reinsurance, of course, is much greater in the field of general insurance than it is in the field of life insurance, although it exists in life insurance. One knows from experience- I have had some experience in these matters- that there is a very high degree of reinsurance. Where does that reinsurance go? It goes outside this nation; we know that. The significant point- I understand this to be true, but very little, if any, publicity has been given to it lately- is that the only body which has shown any interest in creating a reinsurance industry in this nation is the Queensland State Government Insurance Office. 
-There is nothing so bad about all that, so far as Queensland is concerned. If  Senator Webster  wishes to espouse a situation in which the insurance of Australian interests is held largely overseas, let him get up and do so unequivocally. 
-We are not talking about the Arabs; we are talking about the general insurance industry. If  Senator Webster  looks at the statistics he will find that the Arabs are not involved in this field at all; it is partly the United Kingdom and partly the United States, with a few other smaller interests being involved. 
Induce who in? 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Davidson)-  Order!  Senator Everett  is addressing the Chair. 
-The point,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  is that the Opposition would be content with a situation in which we in Australia continued to play a role of subservience to foreign business interests. 
-Of course it is subservience. Does  Senator Webster  not want the profits or the produce of the investment of the people's money to ensure within this nation to the benefit of its people? The Opposition, of which  Senator Webster  is a member, is selling out the farm. I leave the matter of re-insurance because obviously it is rather a difficult problem for the Opposition. One might ask: If the Opposition is so anxious to cast off the insurance liabilities, the risks and the investment moneys, to overseas, why did it bother to enact the Foreign Takeovers Act in 1971, 1 think it was? But no doubt the Opposition will relationalise that. It is difficult for me to recollect legislation which has been the subject of so much distortion and so much untruth as has been the case with this Bill. 
It has been said over the months and it was maintained this afternoon by  Senator Cottonbut  I notice some slight retreat- that the Trade Practices Act would not apply to the Corporation. Where is the authority for that statement? There is no mention of the Trade Practices Act in the Bill; there is no mention in the Trade Practices Act of an exclusion in favour of this Corporation. Then it was said- and this was the daddy of them all- that this Bill was the beginning of nationalisation of the insurance industry. What a lot of nonsense! Was the creation of Trans Australia Airlines beginning of the nationalisation of the aviation industry? 

 -Senator Carrick may have been privy to the political discussions at the time. I do not know. I regret that I was not. Was the enactment of the banking legislation the precursor of the nationalisation of the private banks? They all seem to be doing very nicely, thank you,  Mr Deputy President,  and each of them has been in existence for something like a quarter of a century. It was said in the House of Representatives by  Mr Lynch  in delivering the major speech for the Opposition in that chamber that the provisions of this Bill involved the unlimited availability of capital to this Corporationthat is capital provided by the Government. He conveniently forgot to mention that under clause 36 (2) (b) the only amounts of capital that can be appropriated to this Corporation other than the initial amount of $800,000 must be sums which are appropriated by Parliament for the purpose. Parliament has complete control. To suggest that unlimited amounts could be made available is a distortion of the truth. 
The final matter I should mention in that context is what I would maintain are the tight financial provisions of this Bill so far as the Government and the Corporation are concerned. The detailed provisions are contained in Part VI of the Bill. The first requirement is the statutory requirement under clause 34 which provides that the Board must act in accordance with sound commercial principles. In other words, it is to operate on the same basis as any private insurer should operate. The financial policy of the Corporation is determined by clause 35 of the Bill. In effect the only involvement of the Government is that under clauses 36 and 37 the Government has some say in determining what is a reasonable return on the capital of the Corporation, but under clause 35 (2) the Board is required to pursue a policy directed towards making, in each financial year, profits sufficient to enable the Corporation to pay to Australia, out of those profits, an amount equal to the percentage of its capital determined by the Minister in respect of that financial year. That is the only way in which there is interaction between the moneys of the Government and the moneys of the Corporation. To suggest that because of those provisions the Corporation has an unfair advantage over private industry is, in my submission, a distortion of the true positions. 
Before leaving the distortion aspect I just mention that I will leave to others a discussion on the expensive campaign conducted by insurance companies in which the companies exploited their captive labour force- their own employees- who 1 think got more laughs out of walking around the streets waving little flags than in sitting at the desks of their employers. I think they enjoyed themselves. 
The point that has to be borne in mind in relation to this Bill is that for decades State governments have been involved in the insurance industry. They have been involved in the general insurance industry to a large degree including, in more recent decades, medical and hospital benefits insurance. There has been no cry of nationalisation in relation to that activity. Indeed, because many of the areas of State government involvement turned out to be unprofitable there has been a willingness by private insurers to accept the Government into the various fields. 
-Yes, State governments. The honourable senator seems to draw a distinction between State governments and national governments in this context. The state is the state whether it moves under a State government banner or a national government banner. After listening to the speech of  Senator Cotton  I submit that the Opposition's attitude to this Bill reflects 2 basic conservative tenets: The first is that any attempt by the state to enter a field of business or a commercial activity must be resisted; and the second is that any action by the state which might reduce the profitability of private business interests must be prevented also. The Government joins issue with each of those tenets. It believe that the Australian people are entitled, as a matter of contract, to insure themselves against the various risks of life with a government agency if they wish to do so. Assuming that this legislation were passed and that this Corporation succeeded, as I said earlier, it would be a tribute to the efficacy of government involvement in this field and would be an indictment of the private insurance industry. If the Corporation were to fail, what would the private insurers have to worry about? 
This legislation has not been hurried. Its subject has been Labor Party policy for many years. The Bill was not introduced until there had been a proper investigation by an interdepartmental committee. The legislation has been before the public for a considerable time and I venture to suggest that had it not been for the expensive public relations campaign conducted by the insurers the Opposition would not be taking the line that it is taking before this Senate. This is a sound measure. It provides for national disasters and natural disasters, which are not provided for and are not likely to be provided for under current commercial practice. It is something in which the public can evince a financial interest for their own sakes and for the sake of Australia. It is a measure which I heartily commend. 
-Has the Minister for Foreign Affairs received reports on the recent civil disturbances in Bangkok? Have those disturbances led to the declaration of a state of emergency? 
-Madam Acting Deputy President, on behalf of those in the crowded chamber and the packed galleries, I should like to congratulate you on your appointment to the office that you are now occupying. All members of the Senate are confident that you will bring to your occupancy of the chair the wisdom that has brought you to the fore within your political party, that you will add dignity to the conduct of the proceedings of the Senate and, above all, that you will add considerable grace and charm to the debates in this chamber. I do not believe that it will be necessary for you to assert the authority to which historically your sex is entitled; I believe that you will assert it irrespective of that fact. 

 Senator Cotton said that he found it difficult to inject life into this debate. I find it somewhat difficult to do that too, but I will try to do so by saying that it is refreshing that at last there is a measure before the Senate which has the concurrence of the Opposition. It is particularly refreshing that that should be the case this week, after the troubled time last week in which the Government suffered the defeat of some of the most beneficent legislation that it has ever introduced- in particular, the Australian Government Insurance Corporation Bill. Of course, the Opposition could not credibly oppose the Foreign Takeovers Bill because the legislation replaces the Opposition's own unsatisfactory attempt to stop the sell-out of Australian business and commercial interests. The Bill before the Senate widens the net considerably. It removes loopholes which have been proved to exist in the 1972 legislation and it puts the national interest in proper perspective in relation to foreign investment. The Labor Party does not attempt to detract from the proud record of the Opposition in this matter. After 23 years of allowing Australia to lie fallow so far as corporate raiders were concerned, on the eve of the  1972  election and in the face of a tide of economic nationalism which had arisen at that time, belatedly but inadequately the then Government acted and produced the  1972  takeover legislation. 
This Government, as is well known, has twice extended the operation of that legislation pending the preparation of this legislation. It was foreshadowed by a statement in the House of Representatives on  10  December  1974  by the then Treasurer,  Mr Crean,  and the scope of the legislation is very much in line with the statement of Government policy which he made on that occasion. Basically the  1972  legislation extended only to takeovers of companies which were affected by the acquisition of shares to which voting rights attached. By policy decisions and by administrative action over the next  2  years the present Government extended the operation of the Act to takeovers, firstly, of incorporated and unincorporated businesses by means of the acquisition of assets and, secondly, to mineral rights. 
The effect of the Bill before the Senate is to add  2  further essential areas of government control in relation to takeovers. The first is to cover the cases which over the last  2%  years have been proved to allow loopholes for the evasion of the provisions of the Act- devices which were predictable and which have been employed by foreign corporations and individuals. The second additional area of control is in relation to the transfer of control of a business from one foreign group to another and, as a necessary consequence of that, the screening of certain transactions in the shares of companies incorporated outside Australia. 
I had a practical demonstration of the weaknesses of the  1972  legislation in relation to the affairs of the Wrest Point Hotel Casino approximately  2V4  years ago. A situation developed in relation to that casino when there was a danger that effective control of it would pass into foreign hands by virtue of the purchase of shares by Asian interests. The provisions of the  1972  legislation were examined- I received the advice of Sydney counsel in relation to the matter- but they were quite inadequate to deal with that situation. The consequence was that it was necessary in Tasmania for special legislation to the enacted to prevent the feared or impending takeover by foreign interests. In the course of the preparation and passage of that legislation the manifold weaknesses of the  1972  legislation were brought home very forcibly to me. I do not think anyone, be he a Treasury officer, company secretary, lawyer or anyone else, who is involved in these affairs would not readily concede that the massive strengthening of the Act is essential. 
I should like to invite attention to the scope of the Bill because in this legislation an attempt has been made- it appears to me to be a successful attempt- to make the Act as wide as possible in its operation. I refer to clause  16  which expressly applies the Act on an extra-territorial basis so that it operates both within and outside Australia and extends to every external territory other than Papua New Guinea. Clause  1 7  is of interest and worth reading. It provides: 
The obligation to comply with this Act extends to all natural persons, whether resident in Australia or not and whether Australian citizens or not, and to all corporations, whether incorporated or carrying on business in Australia or not. 
So there is no constitutional barrier, as we found with the Trade Practices Act, to the completely comprehensive application of the provisions of this Bill. 

 Sitting suspended from 5.45 to 8p.m. 

-I seek leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-Prior to the suspension of the sitting I had been directing attention to the comprehensive scope of this legislation. I had referred to clauses 16 and 17. There is one clause, clause 38, to which I wish to refer specifically because its intention and effect may be misunderstood. It provides: 
The doing of any act that constitutes an offence against section 30 or 3 1 is, notwithstanding the commission of that offence, valid for all purposes. 
That clause, on its face, means that if one is prepared to incur the penalties imposed by clause 30- namely, a fine not exceeding $50,000 or imprisonment for a period not exceeding 6 months- one can flout the provisions of the Act. That is not the practical effect of that clause because preceding clauses, in particular clause 35, permit the Treasurer to apply to the Supreme Court of a State or a Territory for such order- I quote the words of sub-clause (1) of clause 35- 'as it thinks fit for the attainment of the purpose for which the order was made by the Treasurer'. The practical effect of all those provisions is simply this: Although the Treasurer may make an order which may not be complied with, he still has the power to apply to the Supreme Court for such order as it thinks fit for the attainment of the purpose for which the original order was made by the Treasurer. 
In those circumstances it may be wondered why clause 38 is in its present form. It simply follows the corresponding provision in the 1972 legislation- section 18. 1 suggest to the Government that that clause needs very careful consideration in the light of subsequent developments because, although there is power under clause 35 to apply to the Supreme Court to get orders in aid of any decision made by way of order by the Treasurer, there is under clause 38 that ultimate right of a corporation or a person to say: 'Nevertheless, this transaction is still valid'. I do not know the reason of policy behind section 18 of the Act or the reason of policy behind the continuation of that provision, but I think the greatest deterrent to the evasion of this legislation would be to make completely void a transaction which was in breach of the Act. Clause 38 adopts the opposite situation. I suppose the argument is that the power to apply to the Supreme Court for orders supplementary to the order of the Treasurer is a sufficient sanction. I ask the Minister in charge of the Bill,  Senator Wriedt,  to watch closely clause 38 to ensure that it is not made the medium for the evasion of the provisions of this legislation. 
Reference was made, both in the House of Representatives and again this afternoon by  Senator Cotton,  to the fact that no criteria are established by which the Treasurer may determine what is in the national interest. That omission was made a subject of criticism in the House of Representatives. It was not made a subject of criticism by  Senator Cotton.  I submit that there is no basis for criticising it because it would be completely impossible to define in relation to future circumstances what was or was not in the national interest. Very wisely, I submit, the legislation provides that it is a question of ministerial responsibility. The Treasurer must determine in relation to facts which can vary infinitely what is and is not in the national interest. I have read the speech of the right honourable member for Bruce,  Mr Snedden,  in the House of Representatives and his claim that this matter ought to be made the subject of regulations. Fortunately, so far that claim has not been repeated in the Senate. I submit it is quite fallacious. It would be impossible to put not only in an Act but also in regulations the various circumstances which would make a particular transaction against the national interest. Circumstances vary infinitely. I remember that an English judge once said that the expression 'public interest' was an unruly horse. I would suggest that the expression national interest' in this context is an equally unruly horse. 
The Minister bears the responsibility for determining the facts. He has a committee to advise him. He makes the decision, for which he has to accept responsibility as Minister, whether a particular transaction is contrary to the national interest or is not contrary to the national interest. I would submit that any attempt to make it more particular, any attempt to define what is in the national interest, would be folly because it is impossible to define the national interest. Each case stands on its own facts. Each case merits a responsible decision by the appropriate Minister. 
I have mentioned the committee which advises the Minister. I believe that I am correct in asserting that in a period of nearly 3 years no one has criticised a decision taken under the existing legislation. Most of those decisions, I think it is easy to imagine, have been taken on the advice of the members of this committee. 
To support this measure is not to advocate an excessive retreat from the judicious use of foreign capital in the development of Australia. I am not aware of figures available which indicate the total extent of foreign investment in the private sector in Australia. But we do know from figures that were given to us only today, the extent of the governmental and semi-governmental debt of Australia. 
In a statement released today by the National Debt Commission, we learn the exciting fact- it does not worry me- that the Australian Government and the State governments owe a total at 30 June this year of $ 1 7,770m. I have worked out my share of that debt on a per capita basis. It is $1,270. 1 can only express the wish that my private overdraft was as low as that; but it is not. If the whole of the 13.5 million people in Australia contributed $1,270 we would wipe out that national debt overnight. If there are any starters from the Opposition, we will see what we can do from the Government benches to effectuate that situation. That figure gives an idea of the extent of government indebtedness. Some of it is overseas; some of it is not. So far as the private sector is concerned, as I have said, I do not know what the figure is. But I am not one of those who takes the view that Australia can reach an appropriate rate of growth and an appropriate living standard without some involvement of overseas capital. 
The point this Bill makes- the point that the Government tried to make in the debate last week on the Australian Government Insurance Corporation Bill- is that there is a vast difference between the borrowing of money which simply attracts an obligation to pay interest and eventually on agreed terms to repay the capital, on the one hand, and, on the other, the acquisition of control- that is what this Bill is aimed at- so that policy within individual businesses can be determined by foreign interests. That type of control includes, of course, the conditions of employment subject to Australian laws. 
I imagine that, in a country such as Australia, for some decades to come there will be a need to permit a degree of foreign capital to be allowed into this country for the purpose of the development of our resources, the maintenance and improvement of our living standards, and the maintenance and improvement of the rate of growth. But a sharp distinction must be drawn between investment of foreign overseas capital and the investment which leads to control which, as I have said, is the purpose of this Bill. That is the point of this measure. It is a point, I submit, that the Opposition should not overlook. 
There are reasons that were canvassed in the House of Representatives- I need not detain the Senate on them- why we must acknowledge that for a period we need some overseas capital. It has been said that overseas capital leads to an improvement in technology, to market development and to access to markets. Of course, we cannot ignore the fact that a country which is not completely financially independent- what country is?- must have some overseas capital to assist its rate of growth and development. But consistently with those economic desiderata, there must be the stage at which Australia says: 'We are not going to permit ourselves to be controlled to the extent that policy is dictated to an excessive degree by overseas interests'. Finally in 1972 the previous Government- now the Oppositionrecognised that it could not go against that trend. This Bill strengthens the position and, I would hope, makes it plain to overseas interests that ownership and control of Australia are not to be bought for a song. 
This Bill is another example of the determination of the present Labor Government to pay more than lip service to measures which will promote economic nationalism in Australia and which place Australia more surely on the path towards its eventual emergence as a powerful and independent nation. We have not yet achieved that situation. The Bill also sounds a warning to foreign investors that no amount of money will buy control- I emphasise the word control'- of Australian businesses and commercial ventures if it is against the national interest to do so. 
I will be surprised if even this legislation does not require some amendment in future. As we all know from our experience with the taxation law, there are people in this world who are able to find loopholes in legislation. I would hope that the Government would be as determined to close such loopholes as it has been in its period of office since December 1972 to improve the legislation of that year. I enthusiastically support the Bill. 

 Senator WEBSTER (Victoria) (8. ^Senator Everett was somewhat critical of the attitude of the Opposition parties in earlier years to the takeover of Australian businesses by foreign companies. I think there has been a growing awareness in the community of the activities of foreigners in this country. This matter certainly has been given publicity, and people in important positions in government in the last years have been speaking quite vigorously against those activities. That action, in my view, has created some disadvantages for Australia. 
Certainly the economic problems with which we are faced at this moment are probably due in some respects to the attitude of Labor in these matters. Let me put it to the Senate in this way: If it were possible for the unemployment situation faced by Labor at this time to be solved by a number of foreign corporations taking over flagging Australian businesses and assuring that within a year 200 000 jobs could be found, what would be the choice of Labor? One has to make a decision as to what choices we should face in this community. I myself have no doubt that the general publicity that has been engendered by Ministers and back benchers on the matter of foreign takeovers has resulted in corporations retreating and leaving Australia. Certainly investment which might have been made in Australia has not been made. The very talk of foreign takeovers and the use of the word foreign' in this community in such a way as to make it sound bad have meant that we are in a position of lesser strength today than we would have been had this talk not taken place. 
There is an attraction associated with the horizon view that Australians should own everything in this country. That would be the ultimate; that is what we all desire. Indeed, there would not be one of us who did not have some objection to seeing some very wealthy businessman apparently in control of some vast empire. It is interesting to note that when many of these leaders of industry with their vast empires have gone into liquidation they have not possessed the great reserves of assets that some other people have. 
-Has the Minister for Labor and Immigration recently initiated action on behalf of the Australian Government with a view to settling by negotiation the strike by members of the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union which has disrupted restoration work on the damaged Hobart bridge for more than 10 weeks? If so, what are the details? Is the Australian Government prepared to exercise its legal powers as far as possible in an endeavour to negotiate an end to the strike and thus reduce the hardship and inconvenience to eastern shore residents caused by delay in repairing the Bridge? 
-Can the Minister for Social Security explain why nursing home benefits differ in various States and what action is being taken to remove anomalies which are evident in the nursing home benefits system? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Labor and Immigration. In the light of the latest unemployment figures, what levels of unemployment does the Minister anticipate over the rest of this financial year? 
-I direct my question to the Minister for Labor and Immigration whom I ask: Has the Government's attention been directed to claims that the Australian Council of Trade Unions at its congress next week will reject the Government's wage indexation policy because of the non-introduction of tax indexation? What has been the actual response of the trade union movement to tax changes in the recent Budget? 
I rise to speak extremely briefly in this debate for 2 main reasons. Firstly, I wish to express amazement that a Bill in relation to which all the major parties in this Parliament are agreed, with the exception of individuals who may dissent from the Party view, should have taken well over one hour to debate tonight and it is not finished yet. It amazes one. A good deal of the first half an hour was taken up with pettifogging procedure which got nobody anywhere but at last we have got on to the substance of this matter. 
I heard some reference to Hobart lawyers, but I did not hear the whole of the remark. The second reason why I wish to speak briefly is to correct the impression that any person listening to this debate must have got from Opposition speeches that the Bill before the Committee imposes charges. It does nothing of the sort. All it does is impose, in relation to each of the 3 categories, a ceiling beyond which regulations may not be made in respect of the actual charge. As the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Senator James McClelland)  explained earlier tonight- no one seems to have taken any notice of what he said- the actual charges in relation to stevedoring industry matters are fixed by regulation. The clause that the Committee is considering simply imposes limits in relation to the 3 categories and the effect of the legislation is that charges which go beyond the limits fixed may not be made. No person of ordinary intelligence listening to the Opposition speeches would have got the impression that that is what the Committee is considering. 
Very obviously in that legislative set-up anyone who wants to challenge a charge under this legislation as being excessive ought to do it by moving to disallow the regulation when it is made. It ought to be done when the actual merits of the charge which the Government decides is proper are known to the Committee. They are not known now. We are debating  in vacuo  a matter which has been contentious over many years, but let us not deceive the people as to what the legislation is doing. It will be interesting to see whether  Senator Wright  moves to disallow the first regulations that are made under this Bill, assuming it becomes law. 
I refer very briefly to Tasmania because I would not have thought that a debate on this Bill which simply imposes ceilings beyond which charges may not be made would have been the proper occasion for a denigration of waterfront labour in Tasmania and a general indictment of the Government in relation to the position of shipping services in Tasmania. Let this simple fact never be forgotten. In less than 3 years 2 significant things have been done by this Government in relation to shipping services and no amount of abusive criticism by the Opposition can obliterate them. The first is that as a result of initiatives taken by this Government between $6m and $7m is being granted by way of subsidy, in effect, to the users of Tasmanian shipping. That was an initiative begun by this Government, extended by this Government and continued by this Government. The second thing was that after 23 years during which time  Senator Wright  was a member of the Government Parties, no positive step was taken to seek a long term solution to the shipping problems of Tasmania which are very great, I admit. It was left to this Government to initiate the Nimmo report. I know it is criticised on the basis that it should have been available before now.  Mr Nimmo,  according to the latest statement I read from him, said that it would be available by about the end of this year. 
We ought to wait before we indulge in more strictures to see what the solution proposed by  Mr Nimmo  is and how the Government reacts to that. Meanwhile the present Government, completely unlike its predecessor, is honouring its undertaking in respect of holding northbound freights and it continues to pour more than $6m to $7m of taxpayers' money, in effect, into bolstering up the position in relation to Tasmania's shipping services. Let those truthful facts be understood in the context of this Bill. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Health whether he is aware of a circular letter from the Joint Committee on Voluntary Proprietary Medicine Advertising Code which claims that the new controls over the advertising of therapeutic goods on radio and television, which were introduced on 1 September 1975, will result in a deterioration of the quality of television and radio programs, will have an adverse effect on the profitability of the media, advertising and pharmaceutical industries, will add to our country's economic problems and will require patients to see their doctor more frequently. What is the purpose in implementing the new controls? Is there any substance in the claims of the Joint Committee? 
-In this cognate debate the Senate is considering together 3 separate Bills, namely, the Excise Tariff Bill, the Customs Tariff (Coal Export Duty) Bill and the Customs Bill- 3 Bills which, in short, impose extra or new duties on tobacco and cigarettes, liquor and coal. I am puzzled by the attitude and the tactics of the Opposition in this matter. When these Bills were debated on 10 September  Senator Webster,  leading for the Opposition, said that the Opposition did not support the Bills. He spoke strongly, particularly against the Bill establishing the levy on coal, but he said: We will allow these 3 Bills to be passed'. This morning  Senator Carrick  delivered the strongest speech I have heard him deliver in this chamber in denunciation of the coal export levy. All other Opposition speakers today have opposed one or more of the 3 Bills in the strongest possible terms. If that criticism is sincere and if the Opposition is not being just hypocritical, why does it not vote against these Bills? It says they are bad. It says, in effect, they are an expression of the manner in which the Government is ruining the economy of the country. Why does the Opposition denounce the Bills yet at the beginning of the debate say that although it does not support them it will vote for them? Why does not the Opposition vote against these Bills? Why does not the Opposition use the power that it has under section 53 of the Constitution to request amendments? Why does not the Opposition do that? If it does not do one or the other or both of those things, how sincere is its criticism? Is it anything more than simply political talk for the sake of talk? 
The Opposition would be respected far more in the community, I suggest, if it exercised the powers that it asserts in relation to these 3 Bills in accordance with its attitude to the Bills than if it waited until a vote was taken on 2 subsequent Bills and then purely for political purposes took a certain step. The Opposition has a chance now to prove whether or not the speeches delivered today were, in fact, sincere and genuine or whether, on the contrary, they were simply talk for the sake of politics. 
I will send the honourable senator a copy of my Brisbane speech if he wishes in which I put my views quite clearly. 
-Not at all. If the honourable senator would like a dissertation on the Constitution some time, perhaps he could put a substantive motion on the notice paper and I would be delighted to oblige him with a debate. The Opposition's attitude ignores the fact that under the administration of the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  the story of the Australian export coal industry has been one of rags to riches. To me it was sad- because I thought it reeked of hypocrisy- to have to listen earlier today to the abuse and the denigration of a person who has done in less than 3 years- the term for which he was constitutionally electedmore for the coal export industry than every appropriate Minister did in the 23 years of Liberal government. 
-We have a mumble from  Senator Wright.  Let me state the facts. As a result of what  Mr Connor  has done 4 things have happened. Firstly, the prices for export coal have risen enormously since December 1972, and in most cases have trebled in that period. 
-Not at all. I will give the true figures later. Secondly, the conditions of many contracts have been ameliorated. It was  Mr Connor  who got the Utah Corporation out of its difficulty with respect to its 7-year contracts.  Mr Connor  did that. This great giant, the Utah Corporation, whose capacity to make money is shown by the fact that for the 9 months ended July last its net profit increased by 237 per cent to a record $84m, in the journals of this country is depicted as the company which is chasing the elusive $100m net profit for a year.  Mr Connor  helped that company out of its difficulties in his negotiations with Japan. 
The third thing that  Mr Connor  has done is to stimulate- I realise that how far you go is a question of judgment, but he has done it to a degreetrie research and expertise provided by the Government which have been of considerable assistance to the coal exporting companies. Fourthly, and perhaps most importantly, by his actions a climate has been created for the coal industry to develop into one of the nation's largest export industries. We ought to realise when we are considering this matter that we are looking at enormous resources of coal, and if the resources are enormous the capacity to benefit the Australian people by a reasonable export levy in this area ought to be apprehended and appreciated. 
Figures taken from the annual report of the Joint Coal Board illustrate the world position of coal. The figures that I shall cite were those submitted to the World Energy Conference held at Detroit in September 1974. The annual report refers to a comment on the world situation which was made by a subsequent survey, as follows: 
. total resources of solid fuels are at least 5 times as large as all crude oil, natural gas and high grade oil shale resources combined. 
Referring to the Australian position the annual report states: 
This statement is particularly relevant to the Australian position. At the present time, Australia is producing at the rate of about 70 million tonnes of raw coal a year, and at this rate our estimated reserves of coal could last for 1 400 years. 
Some may think that that is rather a long time to think ahead but the enormity of the reserves is shown in subsequent figures on page 23 of this report. I do not stay to cite them because I think it will be generally acknowledged that Australia has huge reserves of coal, some of it high quality, some only steaming coal. Nevertheless, Australia has enormous reserves which, unless the Government steps in in the manner in which it does under this Bill, will result in the exploitation of immensely valuable Australian resources without any appropriate benefit for the Australian people. When we consider the question of benefit to the Australian people let it be remembered that the export coal industry in Queensland is 85 per cent in foreign hands. 

 Mr Connor, the person denigrated so much today, has undoubtedly been the force responsible for the enormous increases in prices that have been earned by the coal exporting companies. On 1 December 1972, expressed in United States dollars for ease of comparison, the per tonne f.o.b. export price of New South Wales coal to Japan varied between US$13 and US$19.50. That was the situation when Labor took office. Now on average the higher quality coals are approaching US$50 per tonne and the lower grade export quality coal is approaching US$40 per tonne. That change has taken place during the ministry of  Mr Connor  as a direct result of his deliberate policy that he would no longer tolerate the digging of our resources in the interests of foreign companies and their sale overseas with very little benefit to the Australian people, other than the employment this produced and some State taxes. 
What is the present position? It ought to be looked at in some detail. The figures that I shall cite are those which were negotiated for the current Japanese fiscal year; that is, the period that runs from 1 April to 3 1 March. Compared with the previous Japanese fiscal year, these results have been achieved. The current price for South Bulli coal is $48.80 which is an increase over the 31 March 1975 price of $53.3 per cent; for coal from Moura in Queensland $46.59, an increase of 50.39 per cent; for coal from South Blackwater in Queensland $45.6 1 , an increase of 44.64 per cent; for coal from Blackwater in Queensland $46.77, an increase of 55.9 per cent; for coal from Goonyella in Queensland $46.67, an increase of 63.9 per cent; and, finally, for the higher quality coal at Peak Downs $46.67, an increase of 63.26 per cent. The price for lower quality Liddell coal, Abersea coal and West Wallsend coal are respectively $38.40, $37.06 and $37.06. In each case it was an increase of more than 60 per cent. Does the Opposition claim that its record in this field gives anyone confidence that it could have achieved anything like that in a period of less than 3 years. Does it? To what experience does it refer? To what achievement - 
-Of course it had something to do with it but the prime mover was that much maligned person,  Mr Connor.  The honourable senator knows that. 
The honourable senator knows that. Let us look at it in different terms. From December 1972 to July 1975 the prices of indicative New South Wales South Coast coals exported to Japan increased by about 170 per cent and of Queensland coal by more than 2 10 per cent. In the same period, prices of leading United States of America coals increased between 120 per cent and 130 per cent. Was America not affected by the oil crisis? Of course it was. Those figures illustrate that prior to December 1972 there had been no proper effort by the then Australian Government to take appropriate action to ensure that a fair return was obtained for the vast exports that were going from Australia with very little benefit to the Australian people. I look at it in another way. I can do no better in this respect, I think, than to quote what the Joint Coal Board said- in an atmosphere that was not political- at page 109 of its report for 1973-74. It paid a proper tribute to the Australian Government and it said: 
The Australian Government's oversight of coal export contracts, through the licensing of coal exports, has been an important factor in Australian producers obtaining satisfactory contracts at improved prices. Virtually all contracts extending beyond one year now provide for annual price negotiations, escalation, without a ceiling, for normal cost items, and currency exchange protection, preserving a constant return in Australian dollars to the exporter. 
That is a low key tribute completely divorced from political considerations and it is time the Opposition acknowledged it and stopped this abuse for party political purposes of a person whose stature, through the cameras of history, will be infinitely higher than is attributed to him now by the Opposition. 
-When one speaks of stature,  Senator Webster,  perhaps you are not the most appropriate person to speak. I look at the matter from another point of view. I quote from the figures that  Mr Connor  himself gave in the House of Representatives on 9 September this year which appear at page 1 1 1 3 of  Hansard.  In answering a question,  Mr Connor  said: 
Of the total gross profit of $544m derived this year from the export to Japan of coking coal the percentage which will flow to the Utah Development Company and its affiliate is 56 per cent. They will take $309m out of $544m-56'/4 per cent to be precise. Only 10.8 percent of that will pass to Australian shareholders; the rest will go abroad. 
I pause there to say that the Opposition's attitude in this matter can only be interpreted as one which applauds the continuation of that present situation as revealed by  Mr Connor's  statement, which is not capable of being controverted. The Opposition wants these vast sums to go abroad. The question that is perplexing the electorate is why? I do not make any suggestions. Suggestions of that sort are best left to persons like  Senator Webster. 
The basic approach of the Australian Government to mineral development generally, and including coal, of course, was stated by the Minister for Minerals and Energy,  Mr Connor,  as early as 1973 in an address he gave at the AustraliaJapan ministerial talks. He laid down the policy in clear and unequivocal language. It can be summed up in these words in which I paraphrase what he said: Firstly, a sensible governmental supervision of mineral exporters; secondly, that Australia would insist on proper world market prices and on Australian exporters receiving fair and reasonable returns in the light of the world situation; thirdly- this is of particular interest so far as Japan is concerned- at all times within safe limits supplying the proper needs of Japan and our other major trading partners whenever we could reasonably fulfil contracts. Those are the guidelines that have been followed. Under those guidelines we have reached a situation where enormous profits are being made. That cannot be denied. This Bill is an attempt to save, for the people of Australia, some benefit from the fact that a resource, which is in the ground of the nation of which they are part, is being mined at enormous profit- the Utah Development Company has made a profit of nearly $ 100m on present levels- and is being exported. Yet the Opposition opposes that in the manner in which it has today. What does the Opposition really want to do with Australia? Give it away? It seems so. 
It is interesting that whenever the argument, by facts and figures, goes against the Opposition,  Senator Webster  has the capacity to resort to complete irrelevancies. I wanted to take up  Senator Carrick-  I regret that he is not in the chamber- on some of the matters that he informed the Senate of this morning. He asserted that for many years- well before we were in Government- there had been virtual parity between the prices obtained for Australian export coal and prices obtained for American export coal. The figures show that that is just not so. I have already quoted some of them. The fact is that even despite what  Mr Connor  has done in the renegotiated contracts that apply at present, we are still a significant measure behind the American price which is running at approximately US$60 per tonne. That was just not right. The transformation came in December 1972. 
I referred earlier to the enormous resource that coal is for Australia. I want to cite the figures relating to the increase in coal exports that has taken place and is expected to take place. In the case of coking coal Australia's exports to all markets, based on tonnages under existing contracts, are expected to be worth about $ 1 , 100m in 1975, which is an estimated increase of about $470 m over the corresponding figure for 1974. It is true that some of this can be attributed to inflation and it is true that some of it can be attributed to the consequences of the oil crisis, but the fact is that the export companies are enjoying financial success beyond even their wildest dreams. In those circumstances what is wrong with the Australian people reaping some benefit? 
One thing I should refer to is the fact that in his Budget speech the Treasurer,  Mr Hayden,  said this: 
To protect buyers in respect of prices recently renegotiated, - 
He was referring, in essence, to the prices negotiated for the current Japanese fiscal year-  approval to export will be in terms of those prices and no consideration will be given to adjustment of prices to take account of the duty. 
Of course, the Australian Government has the power to enforce that situation. There are only 2 things that deserve comment. Firstly, I have been informed that the Utah company takes the view that legally it is able to pass on this duty at the moment. I do not know whether that is true or not and I think it can be put on one side. The important thing is that there is nothing in what  Mr Hayden  said, as I read it, to prevent consideration being given to the existence of this levy in the negotiations that will take place and be consummated in the first part of next year so as to apply to the forthcoming Japanese fiscal year. If that is so, again what is wrong with the Australian public getting some benefit out of an Australian resource and the person who ultimately uses the product, the Japanese consumer, or, in the case of exports from Japan, someone else, paying this particular duty? The resource is Australian and the essential benefit should be for Australians. 
The only other matter I want to mention is one on which, in one respect, I agree with  Senator 
Carrick, and that is that we must take care of the future. I quote this paragraph from page 23 of the 1973-74 report of the Joint Coal Board: 
It is an urgent task to explore and check the size, quality and likely recovery costs of our coal resources. This can be done only as a result of an intensified drilling campaign carried out over a long term. Having regard to the great importance to the well-being of Australia and, indeed of many other countries of the world, which attaches to the coal resources of this country, it is of the utmost importance that the present rate of drilling be intensified as soon as possible. 
As I said earlier, much has been done in that respect. I agree with  Senator Carrick  that we should make the optimum effort to achieve the goal that the Joint Coal Board said we should have in mind. I do not doubt that once this levy becomes a permanent part of our economy it will be infinitely easier to finance the development work that is envisaged in the paragraph 1 have just read. The enormous benefit to Australia is shown by the fact that even on present levels, and assuming there is no increase in exports over a 10-year period, this levy will produce in excess of $A 1,000m, and that is an enormous benefit to this nation. 
I return to the point on which I began. I am not sure who is in charge of the Opposition on the floor of the Senate at the moment. I assume it is  Senator Webster  but as I do not want to create any demarcation dispute with  Senator Durack  let us say that they have joint authority on the floor of the Senate. If this tax is so evil and if members of the Opposition were not completely hypocritical in their speeches, why do they not either make a request under section 53 of the Constitution or assert the right that they claim they have and vote against the Bills? I support them. 
I preface my question, which I direct to the Minister for Police and Customs by reminding him of the comments made by his predecessor last year concerning international co-operation in illicit drug investigations. At that time the then Minister informed the Senate that the United Nations Commission on Narcotic Drugs was seeking approval for recommendations from the Economic and Social Council which were expected to generate improvements in the South East Asia region. Can the Minister inform the Senate whether or not those recommendations have been approved, and, if so, have there been any further developments? 
Has the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation seen the report in today's Melbourne  Age,  firstly, that the Premier of Victoria,  Mr Hamer,  is 'concerned at recent heavy increases in workers compensation premiums and their effect on business enterprises, municipal councils and many other bodies and individuals', and, secondly, 'that the Victorian Government is planning a comprehensive inquiry into all aspects of workers compensation in a bid to ease the burden on small businesses'? Was the Victorian Government at any stage invited to, and did it ever, participate in discussions with the Australian Government over the proposed national compensation scheme? Has the Victorian Government made known to the Australian Government any views it has about that scheme? Will the Minister undertake to write to the Premier of Victoria offering to discuss this issue further? Finally, is it possible that the inquiry into these matters promised by  Mr Hamer  and endorsed by the Victorian Leader of the National Country Party of Australia would be covering some of the areas of the comprehensive Woodhouse Committee report? 
-I bring up the report from Estimates Committee F together with the minutes of proceedings. I also table the Hansard report of the evidence taken. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Attorney-General. Has the Minister seen a copy of the letter which  Sir Robert  Menzies sent to  Sir Philip  Game in 1 932 commenting on the circumstances in which the late  Mr Lang  was dismissed from office and giving  Sir Robert's  opinion on certain constitutional matters which are again being aired today. What is the substance of the letter and does it illuminate current constitutional issues? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Attorney-General. I preface it by referring to the reported remarks, published in today's Press, by the Governor of Queensland,  Sir Colin  Hannah, in the course of which he supported Opposition moves to force a general election. I ask the Minister. First, is there any known precedent for the Governor of a State so blatantly and gratuitously stepping into the political arena on an issue concerning the Australian Parliament? Secondly, does  Sir Colin  Hannah's publicly expressed partisanship for the Opposition's cause cast doubt on his ability to exercise impartially his function under section 12 of the Constitution to issue writs for the election of senators in Queensland? Thirdly, is this yet another example of constitutional practice being flouted in the interests of the political advantage of one political Party which has twice been rejected by the electors of Australia within less than 3 years? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security, whom I ask: Has the Minister read the comment by  Mr Chipp,  member of the House of Representatives, as reported in the Melbourne  Age  of today, that a Liberal Government would consider a special levy to part-finance Medibank' and that 'any welfare scheme of this type completely paid for out of general revenue was doomed because of the strain it put on resources'? Does that comment amount to an extraordinary about-face by the Opposition? Does it cast doubt upon the whole credibility of the Opposition in relation to its new social welfare policy? 
-In my view there are a number of remarkable features about the speech to which the Senate has just listened. For me to question the relevance of 99 per cent of the speech would be a reflection on the Chair, and therefore I do not do so. The first remarkable feature was that although I listened intently to  Senator Marriott  I did not hear him mention one thing about the Tasman Bridge Restoration Bill (No. 2) 1975 which is before the Senate. 
I have read it. I suggested that I have read it a good deal more assiduously than has  Senator Marriott.  The Bill extends the powers of the Tasman Bridge Restoration Commission which was established by the Tasman Bridge Restoration Act 1975 to include the additional function of organising and constructing a fifth lane on the Hobart Bridge during the course of the restoration work which has been occasioned by the damage done by the collision of the S.S.  Lake Illawarra  with the Bridge. That is the basic purpose of the Bill. I would have thought that by now  Senator Marriott  would have ceased to use Bills which confer extreme benefits on Tasmania for making a political attack on what must really be the Government of Tasmania and not the Australian Government. 
The second remarkable feature of his speech was that on the one hand he criticised the delay- in a moment I am going to ask him to specify in what manner the Australian Government has been guilty of delay- while on the other hand he ignores the fact- surely this reeks of hypocrisy- that the money for this work which he says is so essential is provided in Appropriation Bill (No. 2). We saw last week what happened to Appropriation Bill (No. 2) with the help of the vote of  Senator Marriott.  The appropriate item in Appropriation Bill (No. 2) is item 03 of division 964, which reads: 
Payments to Tasmania in respect of Tasman Bridge Disaster, in respect of reconstruction of Tasman Bridge to provide an additional traffic lane and in respect of  investigation  of proposals for a further permanent bridge across the Derwent River. 
The amount appropriated is $13m. Yet  Senator Marriott,  the person who voted to defer that Bill last week and who, according to Press statements, presumably will maintain that attitude of deferring the Appropriation Bills, is the very person who complains of delay in the completion of the work of restoring the bridge.  Senator Marriott  also voted in favour of the Bill passed by Parliament earlier this year which established the Tasman Bridge Restoration Commission. He knows, or he ought to know if he has read the Bill, that the whole of the financial arrangements in respect of the restoration of the bridge depend upon the availability of funds to the Commission which was established under the 1975 Bill. So, on the one hand, he says: 'Get on with the job; it is taking too long'. On the other hand he says: You will not get any money for it'. What sort of position does he expect the Commission to be in within a week or so? The Commission ought to act with business prudence. Can it enter into contracts when it does not have the money with which to pay the contractors? Does  Senator Marriott  recommend that course? He would be far better occupied reconsidering his vote on Appropriation Bill (No. 2) so that the Commission would have some guarantee of the continued availability of funds. 
In that regard I have some news for  Senator Townley  because, in case he does not know it, a very strong invitation was issued to him today by the  President  of the Australian Labor Party in Tasmania that he consider, in the interests of Tasmania, which undoubtedly he will flog when he speaks on this Bill, whether or not he should revert to the independent status that he occupied some 16 months ago. We all know that he has undergone 3 metamorphoses in 16 months. He was elected as an independent senator to do justice for Tasmania. Within a few months he had become that rather unusual breed of an independent Liberal, whatever particular ideology that connotes. Then, of course, he was able to find the $4 needed for him to return to full membership of the Liberal Party. It is that type of person who, on the one hand, last week would vote against the Commission getting funds, because that is what the Opposition did in effect, and, on the other hand, this week would criticise the Australian Government for delay? 
-On the issue of a dishonest government,  Senator Townley  would have had his answer if he had plucked up the courage to go to Franklin Square yesterday between 1 p.m. and 1.30 p.m., but it was wise of him not to go because he would probably have been lynched from one of those sturdy oak trees in Franklin Square. I would indicate to  Senator Baume  who is interjecting that the mood of 
Hobart was reflected at Franklin Square.  Senator Baume  was not there, and it is just as well that he was not. The third remarkable feature about  Senator Marriott's  speech is the fact that he has not given a single particular of the manner in which the Australian Government has been guilty of any delay. The next time  Senator Marriott  speaks on a Bill such as this I ask him to give some particulars. I also ask him to indicate when he next speaks on a Bill of this sort in what way an Australian government, with him as a member of it, would have acted differently from that of the present Australian Government. What extra assistance would it have given? Indeed, what extra assistance could it have given? 
Let us look at the history of the Government in relation to this matter. Immediately the disaster occurred the Australian Government announced that it would pay all the costs, direct and indirect, associated with the collision. It could be said, of course, that that was only its legal liability anyway, vicariously through the Commission, but there was a point- I mentioned this some months ago in this chamber- as to whether there was a limitation of liability by virtue of the provisions of the Merchant Shipping Act. I express no concluded view on that because it would not be appropriate. But the Australian Government immediately assumed the full financial responsibility. I contrast that with the attitude of a government of which  Senator Marriott  was a member in relation to two other occurrences in Tasmania in recent years. The first was the bushfires of 1967. Certainly some moneys were made available from Canberra but they were made available almost entirely by way of loan. They had to be repaid and they are being repaid. The second was the Bell Bay Railway Agreement which was described- it was not really refuted- by the former Minister for Defence,  Mr Barnard,  as the worst agreement, so far as any State was concerned, in the history of Federation. 
By contrast, the Australian Government in January agreed to put Tasmania back completely, insofar as money could do so, in the position in which she had been before the disaster occurred. It consistently followed that attitude. It arranged for the Bailey bridging. It is no fault of the Australian Government that there has been delay in the construction of that Bailey bridge. Let any member of the Opposition specify any particular way in which the Australian Government, the Department of Defence or any Minister has been responsible for delay with respect to the construction of that bridge. The essence and the express terms of the agreement were that the Tasmanian Department of Public Works would do the construction. To talk about emulating wartime feats and putting a Bailey bridge across the Derwent River in 2 weeks with approaches that would satisfy and be safe for the travelling public displays a lamentable lack of knowledge of what Bailey bridging is supposed to do. 
Then there came the agreement to establish the Joint Commission between the Tasmanian Government and the Australian Government to investigate the appropriate type of location of a second bridge, a completely new and permanent second bridge. The Australian Government said that it would pay the entire cost of that. Then came the establishment, by the Statute to which I referred earlier, of the Joint Tasman Bridge Restoration Commission, the functions of which are being enlarged by this Bill. These were initiatives of the Australian Government. Yet we have the statements of the Leader of the Opposition in Tasmania who is always prating about the evils of centralism. Tasmania wanted to be reasonably independent with respect to the execution of these works in Tasmania. I do not criticise the State for that. But this Government, in every way, paid regard to the economic and political situation in Tasmania. It has not done anything that it was not asked to do and it has not failed to do anything that it was asked to do. 
Finally, there was the agreement of the Australian Government to pay the complete cost, amounting to, it is estimated at this stage, some $3m, of the enlargement of the number of lanes of the existing Hobart Bridge from 4 lanes to 5 lanes. I would have thought that  Senator Marriott  who says that he commutes to the eastern shore twice a week would have been more concerned to consider the extreme benefit that that will confer upon the people of southern Tasmania. The extra lane or 2 extra lanes have been sought in the past. They were never practicable financially. Now the finance has been provided. The opportunity exists for the work to be done without delay and without traffic confusion. It can be done quite simply and easily while the main task of restoration and bridging the gap is carried out. That is what this Bill is all about. I would have thought that it would have had the speediest of passages without criticism. But that was not to be. 
I return to the second point that I made and it is my essential point. Let the Opposition, and that includes  Senator Townley,  explain how it justifies the refusal last week of the passage of the Appropriation Bill (No. 2) which contains the very financial life blood with which this 
Commission will operate. Let it explain that in conjunction with its criticism of the Australian Government in relation to this project. It is not explainable. It reeks of hypocrisy. I support the Bill. 

 -Mr President, I speak to the simple question, which is whether or not the resumption of the debate on the issue of the restoration of the Bill to the Notice Paper be tonight or on the next day of sitting. As I see it, I cannot therefore debate the fundamental issues that are involved in the present controversy. But I want to say, before any decision is made over the coffin of a deceased senator - 
-That is all right about that. 
-You do not like it, do you? But harken to the fact that twice in this Senate in the brief time that I have been here I have heard the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers)  say that the Opposition would not take advantage in votes in this House of the death or resignation- I will confine it to the death- of a senator. That has been said twice and it sounded very nice, but when the crunch comes is it honoured? No. Tonight the public has witnessed the descent by the Opposition in this Senate to the lowest depths of infamy.  (Honourable senators interjecting. ) 

 Senator Wright- Mr President, I ask you to ask the honourable senator to withdraw the statement that the Opposition has reduced itself to the lowest depth of infamy. I think that that is derogatory to all senators and to the Senate itself. As the repository of the Senate's honour, you ought not to permit that to be said with regard to a vote in the Senate. A senator is not entitled to reflect upon a vote of the Senate, and to say that it stoops to the lowest depth of infamy is derogatory and infinitely worse -  ( Government supporters interjecting) 
By the indulgence of the Senate, a  Senator may  explain matters of a personal nature, although there be no Question before the Senate; but such matters may not be debated. 

 Senator Wright was not mentioned in the speech so he cannot make a personal explanation under that standing order. 
By the indulgence of the Senate, a  Senator may  explain matters of a personal nature, although there be no Question before the Senate; but such matters may not be debated. 

 Senator Wright has been here long enough to know that that obviously was not the relevant standing order. Standing order 418 states: 
No  Senator shall  use offensive words against either House of Parliament or any Member of such House, or of any House of a State Parliament, or against any Statute, unless for the purpose of moving for its repeal, and all imputations of improper motives and all personal reflections on Members shall be considered highly disorderly. 
I want to make the point that when  Senator Wright  was endeavouring to speak to the point of order he himself deliberately infringed standing order 4 1 8. He endeavoured to blame a situation in this country today which is one of the most tragic that Australia has ever seen - 
Wright. He is trying to create a situation in which chaos will reign in this country. I am saying now that this is a time when we need calm- a time when honourable senators opposite are holding the people of Australia to ransom. It is just not good enough for Australia. 
-My simple purpose in rising is to have incorporated in  Hansard,  if the Senate will agree, the full text of a letter which the Premier of Tasmania,  Mr Neilson,  has sent under date 17 October 1975 to all Tasmanian senators. 
I said it was dated 17 October. 
-Perhaps your mail box has not been cleared. 
-My reply does not mean that it has not been delivered in the normal course. I got mine in the normal course of post yesterday morning in Hobart. I propose to seek the leave of the Senate to have the letter incorporated in  Hansard. 
Premier of Tasmania Hobart  17 October, 1975 
Dear  Senator Everett, 
I am naturally greatly concerned at the financial repercussions that will inevitably ensue in Tasmania if there is protracted delay in the passing of the Budget for 1 975-76. 
Tasmania is relatively more dependent than any other State on financial assistance and support from the Australian Government. This is naturally so because of our smaller size and our limited financial resources. For these reasons the Financial Assistance Grant paid to Tasmania is larger per head of population than in any other State. Similarly, Tasmania receives a much higher per capita allocation of funds for capital purposes. 
I realise that many payments made by the Commonwealth to the State are authorised by Special Appropriation Actsthat is, reserved by law. It is therefore difficult to predict with certainty which payments could be delayed and those that could cease almost immediately because of the Constitutional crisis and political impasse. This makes my task as State Treasurer in planning all the more difficult because of the inevitable uncertainty. Further, the Treasury has not got access in an emergency to any sources of funds to tide it over such a period. 
It may help to underline the gravity of the situation that could threaten Tasmania if I point out that our estimated revenue this year totals $32 lm, of which just over half, viz., $16 1.6m, would normally be received from the Commonwealth by regular monthly instalments of the Financial Assistance Grant. Again, over $30m of a Capital Works Programme totalling $ 102m is to be financed from interest-free grants from the Australian Government. I am assuming that the flow of funds to be provided by borrowings approved by the Australian Loan Council will not be disturbed. Further, you will be aware of the importance to the State of the special Commonwealth support programs in financing a number of essential social services- for example, Karmel Grants for Education; Medibank payments for Health and Hospital Services. As I have mentioned, Treasury does not have access to cash resources that would enable these programs to be maintained even for a short period. 
I am not able to comment on the problems that will face the Australian Government in maintaining the administrative functions of government and continuing its own social service programs if there is a delay in passing the necessary Appropriation Bills. However, I can say without exaggeration that there could be financial chaos in Tasmania. The State might very soon be forced into a position where it is unable to meet its commitments. In this I believe Tasmania is not alone and other States could be similarly placed. 
It is not necessary for me to elaborate on the economic consequences of such financial upheaval. There would be substantial unemployment with the most damaging loss of confidence. Work would virtually come to a standstill in many areas and employees would necessarily be dismissedfor example, only essential key personnel could be retained in connection with road construction; contractors working on water supply and sewerage projects would be forced to cease; urban transport would be disorganised. Local government could also soon be involved because of the growing dependence of municipal councils on grants from the Commonwealth and State Governments. 
Under separate cover I am forwarding you a copy of my Budget Paper, 'Grants to Tasmania'. This document contains details about many aspects of joint CommonwealthState financial arrangements. 
If there is any further information that I can give you, I shall be pleased to do so. 
In conclusion, I can only say I hope that the Constitutional crisis in Canberra will not be allowed to become the threat it could pose to the stability of State government. 
Yours sincerely, PREMIER. 

 Senator M. G. Everett, Q.C., M.L.C. Building, 65 Murray Street, HOBART. 
In summary I simply say that it indicates the gravity of the situation that could threaten Tasmania if there is delay in the passing of the Budget and underlines 'without exaggeration that there could be financial chaos in Tasmania '. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture. Is it a fact that because of the action of the Opposition in delaying Supply, it will not be possible to pay wages for Commonwealth meat inspectors beyond the end of November? What consequences would this have for the Australian meat industry? 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Labor and Immigration. In view of media reports that a person named Khemlani entered Australia yesterday without the immigration documentation required by law, will the Minister inform the Senate whether these reports are correct? If so, what are the full facts and to what extent has the Australian Government facilitated  Mr Khemlani  's entry into Australia yesterday and his existing reported presence in Canberra? 
-The motion before the Senate is one under standing order 64 to discuss as a matter of urgency the need for further inquiry into the matters that have been mentioned in the debate this afternoon. It is a fatuous motion because it can achieve nothing and it ignores the fact that there are 3 avenues open to the members of the Opposition or their friends and supporters to pursue this matter if they wish to do so. Of course, not only is it fatuous but also we all know that rather disconsolately this is put on as the substitute performance for today because the test match involving Pakistan will apparently not take place, at least today. I can understand the Opposition not wishing to disappoint the crowd and putting on the next best performance it could muster at short notice. It is the ACTU-Solo Enterprises Pty Ltd deal. 
I did not hear that interjection. I listened to  Senator Wright  in silence. He is a senator who so often combines the role of accuser and judge in the Senate against individuals. It is apparent that this motion is aimed essentially at the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions,  Mr Hawke,  who is the one person outside the Government whom the Opposition most fears; fears because of his forthrightness; fears because of the manner in which he exposes some of the capitalistic deals that have been a disgrace to this country; fears because when, from the cover of privilege of Parliament, accusations are made against him he answers like an honest man in a ringing voice and says: 'Repeat that outside and you will be sued '; and fears, fourthly, because he has a very good track record in defamation proceedings. 
It was made clear by the Minister, who spoke for the Government in the House of Representatives on 7 October of this year, that there was a means by which anyone who wanted to raise further matters in relation to this issue could be heard, and that was to go back to the Royal Commission, which is still sitting, and ask to be heard, lt would then be a matter for the discretion of the Royal Commission whether the matter was reopened. That is the proper course. It is the legal course. It is the fair and honest course. Is that course being adopted by the Opposition? No.  Mr Woodhouse,  who from the humbleness of his weatherboard home seems to have intrigued - 
Who said it was a disgrace? 
-Run away and go home.  Senator Marriott  would be better employed reading the transcript of the evidence of  Mr Woodhouse,  an expelled member of the Australian Labor Party. 
-Senator Marriott keeps interjecting. I can understand that in view of his present involvement with his research officer he would have considerable experience of persons expelled from the Labor Party or about to be expelled from the Labor Party.  Mr Woodhouse  gave evidence to the Royal Commission on Thursday, 28 August. 
It begins at page 4144. Two things are notable in relation to his evidence, which ][ scanned quickly during the suspension of the sitting. One is that he claimed that his knowledge of the 2 agreements had been acquired only on the night of the Tuesday of that week- the 26th- in a discussion with  Mr Wieland.  A second thing is noteworthy about his evidence. I invite  Senator Greenwood,  who accused, tried and executed  Mr Hawke  in this chamber today, to peruse that evidence and to tell the Senate in what way  Mr Woodhouse  on 28 August referred to his pre-knowledge of what was in the Budget. 

 Mr Woodhouse went before the Royal Commission. He was so anxious to go that when he was asked whether he would appear the next morning he said: 'Yes, I will appear with bells on'. He was reminded that he need not worry about his bells; only he was required. He was very anxious to appear. He did not inform the Royal Commission of this allegation with which he now comes forward, through  Senator Greenwood,  namely, that he had foreknowledge of the Budget provision for a $2 per barrel excise on oil. 
-Senator Greenwood was speaking about 5 August. I am speaking about 28 August. When  Mr Woodhouse  gave evidence as to what he knew about the ACTU-Solo deal he did not mention that he had, as he claims now, some foreknowledge of what was in the Budget. Let us look at the chronology to see why it was impossible for him to have any foreknowledge. The relevant dates have been given. I remind the Senate that the agreement of the Minister was forthcoming on 26 June, having been sought in writing on 17 June. It was not until about 10 days after the agreement of the Minister was sought that the possibility of a tax on crude oil production, as part of this Budget, was for the first time canvassed, and it was not until 30 July, some 6 or 7 weeks after the application was made and some 5 weeks after the application was approved, that any decision was made by the Government that the Budget would contain such a provision. This discredited person I say that he is discredited by his involvement, by his behaviour and by his record in relation to this Party- now comes along and says: 'Oh, in some way I had foreknowledge of this $2 a barrel deal'. Would any just person give that statement any credence? I suggest not. 
Before I pass on to other matters, let me say as a comparative newcomer to this chamber that I am appalled by the manner in which members of the Opposition, under cover of privilege, are constantly making charges of the most serious conduct against individuals in the community and are proceeding to canvass those charges in this chamber, and then are reaching conclusions, by their own judgment, as to the guilt of those persons. It is a complete debasement, I suggest, of the right of audience in the Senate. It is a complete debasement of the powers of this Senate. I suggest that history will so record it and condemn those who are so constantly responsible for the abuse. 

 Senator Greenwood began this morning by saying in effect-  Senator Wriedt  has referred to his exact words- that he was not going to reach any conclusions against anybody, that all he wanted was an inquiry. As a former first law officer of the Crown in this Commonwealth he proceeded then to prosecute, to judge, to convict and to execute. That is the concept of justice of the former first law officer of the Crown in this Commonwealth. The sooner the Senate gets down to its proper business of dealing properly with legislation and not deferring it, as has happened with the Budget, instead of going on to something which appears to be the best bet of the day but which will turn out to be a damp squid, the better it will be for the reputation of the Senate through the cameras of history. 
There is one simple answer in relation to this matter. We will not be voting on the matter of urgency, so the will of the Senate will never be known. There is one simple answer to this and that is the answer which was given by  Mr Bowen,  the Minister for Manufacturing Industry, in the House of Representatives on 7 October. He suggested that anyone who has any relevant information ought to go either personally or by counsel to the royal commission, which fortuitously is sitting and which is capable of determining whether or not any fresh evidence ought to be considered by the commission. I refer to the terms of reference of the commission. They were issued by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  on 12 September 1973. The first paragraph reads as follows: 
To inquire into and report upon- 
All aspects - 
I emphasise the word ' all '-  of the production by refining, and the marketing and pricing, in Australia of all types of petroleum, diesel and other fuels ... 
Under sub-paragraphs (c) and (d) of paragraph (2) there are 2 terms of reference which are even more specific. But the general head of inquiry is ample, I suggest, to embrace any further evidence that anyone can legitimately produce in relation to this matter. I do not know whether the Opposition is directing criticism- it has not been prepared to say so as yet- against the royal commissioner on the basis that the inquiry should have gone farther than it did, but I invite the attention of the Senate to page- 45 18 of the transcript where senior counsel assisting the commissioner said this in conclusion: 
I would submit that the decisions Your Honour has to make concerning the facts of this matter are quite straightforward. 
Senior counsel put it on a very simple basis and the judge accepted that situation. He left the matter open for anyone else who wanted to make any submissions to do so. Incidentally,  Mr Woodhouse  was treated the same as counsel appearing for the parties and in due course, after the evidence had been given, made his actual submissions to the commission. In those submissions he did not mention any question of foreknowledge of Budget details. 
The Royal Commission, having heard all the evidence that it considered relevant- all that was of profit to it- and having considered the arguments of counsel appearing for various parties and of  Mr Woodhouse,  made a clear cut decision and recommendation which this morning  Senator Greenwood  said he accepted. That is the point; he said that he accepted the decision. The principal finding was that there had been deceit and misrepresentation vis-a-vis the former Minister for Minerals and Energy.  Senator Wright  cannot have it both ways. He proceeded to be a prosecutor and a judge- only time prevented him from being an executioner- in saying in effect that that finding could not be sustained on the evidence and that  Mr Connor  must have known this and he must have known that. The analytical approach of the lawyer says that it must be so because of certain dates and certain facts. 
The Opposition through its remaining speakers will say either that it has confidence in the Royal Commission or it has not. If it has no confidence in the Royal Commission it ought to move a substantive motion that the terms of reference of the Commission be aborted. What is the use of this incompetent, if that is the allegation, Royal Commission, which has already been in progress for some 2 years and which I understand will continue its inquiries for some 1 8 months or so from now, continuing to waste funds that presumably, because of the Senate's action in other respects, do not exist? That is just crazy. Let the Opposition come clean. If the members of the Opposition will not accept the challenge of  Mr Hawke  to repeat their charges outside the Parliament so that he can take appropriate action and maintain his track record, they ought not to try to achieve the same political result by maligning, by implication, the royal commissioner whose finding  Senator Greenwood  who raised this matter of urgency said that he accepted, and as to which the second honourable senator speaking for the Opposition side said could not possibly be right. 
-I wish to begin by conveying to members of the Opposition my extreme sympathy for the dilemma in which they now find themselves. I can understand how distressing that must be to 2 parties which believe they have a perpetual right to power, and which approximately 3 weeks ago launched publicly, after extreme orchestration, the vehicle which they are still attempting to drive to block Supply. I can understand how chagrined they must be that their little plan has misfired. We have seen evidence of that chagrin increasing over the last few days in the extremely disconsolate attitude of members of the Opposition and their known fighting among themselves about the stand that they are taking. They remind me very much of many of the criminals of Britain in the early days of last century and of the highwayman's case in which the issue simply was this: The gun was produced and the victim was told: 'There will be no trouble and no one will get hurt if you just hand over your money'. 
On Monday of last week in Franklin Square, Hobart, at a rally marked by spontaneity and indignant criticism of the Opposition to a degree that I have not experienced before, except possibly in relation to the Vietnam war, I used these simple words: 'We will not yield to thugs'. I repeat those words, and, so far as I am concerned in relation to this debate, I should like them to be recorded - 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Devitt)-  I would not accept it in those terms,  Senator Chaney.  I think it was a general sort of comment. Perhaps I could be persuaded by argument. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- 
Perhaps we might get some clarification on the point. As I said at the outset, I would not have thought that the comment was meant in that way, but that is simply my own subjective view of it.  Senator Everett,  you might be able to assist the Chair by clarifying the point you are making. 
-It would be idle of me to deny that I was referring to the Opposition, so that clears that point. But if there is difficulty about the matter I will withdraw the word thugs' and substitute the word 'brigands'. I believe that in law and in practice there is no distinction, but one word seems to be a little more gentlemanly that the other. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- 
Some further clarification has been made on the point by the comments that  Senator Everett  made. In the light of the objections that have been taken by the members of the Opposition, it might be prudent in the interests of the good performance of the Senate if  Senator Everett  withdrew the words which are offensive to the Opposition. 
-Both the original expression and the substitute? 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Both, I think. Exception has been taken to both words. 
I would, of course, wish to assist you by withdrawing each of the 2 words,  Mr Acting Deputy President.  In order to complete the sentence I must say that what I said in Franklin Square on Monday of last week, with the amendment that you require, was simply this: 'We will not yield to bandits', and the Opposition is a pack of bandits. That is what it is. If  Senator Laucke  is minded to seek the withdrawal of the word 'bandits' I will argue that that is a proper parliamentary expression because it is true, and he knows it. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- 
Would you allow me to cool this matter? It is 3.40 p.m. on Thursday afternoon and we have had a fairly long week. There has been a lot of debate on both sides of the chamber and things have been said from both sides. Perhaps we could get the proceedings back on to an even keel now if you were to proceed,  Senator Everett,  and use a form of expression which is not offensive. 
I would point out in virtual self defence that these expressions are not used in their literal sense. No one suggests that members of the Opposition are thugs as that expression is understood in the criminal law. They do not go out, so far as I know, and actually bash people. They are not brigands in the sense that they go out and knock people about and steal their money. They are not bandits in the ordinary sense. What I said was surely a permissible use of language by borrowing an expression that is understood and relating it to political conduct. That is all I was doing. But I will assist you by leaving that point because I think it has been clearly established that the Opposition's behaviour is reprehensible in the extreme. I just put it this way. Three weeks or so ago, after this careful orchestration, the Opposition said: 'We will stand this Government up in the Senate. ' That is what it decided to do; that is what it has continued to do; and that is the situation in which it must be regretting it finds itself today. It has seen the reaction of the people. Where is the evidence that the people of Australia or any reasonable majority of them require an election? Where is the evidence that a reasonable majority of the people of Australia consider it proper for the Senate to defer consideration of the Budget? I ask the Opposition to produce the evidence. 
I was in Queensland a month ago. Although the aircraft shuddered a little as it flew across the border, I found in many people a reaction to the attitude of the Opposition in building up towards what it did 3 weeks ago, that would surprise  Senator Sheil  if he moved outside the hierarchical circles. The clear evidence is exactly the opposite of what has been put by the Opposition. There is no groundswell to support what the Opposition is doing; rather, the position is the opposite. 
-That is the typical remark of the highwayman. 
-Yes, the bandit. It is the typical remark of the political brigand who simply says: 'I say that there ought to be an election'. As  Senator Hall  said yesterday, honourable senators should look at their speeches. They are punctuated by the words 'We want', as  Senator Hall  says. Opposition senators say: 'We want'. Who are the 'we', outside the Liberal hierarchy? Who are the 'we '? 
If  Senator Wright  claims to be acting in a capacity representative of the people, let him consult the people. 
-Again we hear the words we want'. 'We want your money; we want your watch; stand and deliver', says  Senator Wright.  Who on earth gave  Senator Wright  - 
I will come to that in a moment. I want to deal with the situation- I will be a little discursive- that is represented by the fact that  Senator Wright  on this issue, not on a question of State rights or review such as was the purpose of senatorial representation for the States three-quarters of a century ago, has a vote that is worth approximately 13 times that of  Senator Carrick.  That is the situation. 
I deplore it in these circumstances. 
I believe that I am an Australian. 1 do not strut around sticking out my chest. I prefer to be called an Australian first and a Tasmanian second. So far as I am concerned, in the situation that confronts the Senate there is no democratic basis for  Senator Wright  having a vote worth 1 3 times that of  Senator Carrick  or for my having a vote worth, say, 10 times that of  Senator Missen.  Where is the democracy in that when the issue is whether the Opposition will act in the manner in which it has acted by denying Supply? That is what it is doing. 
Let me move on to the constitutional question. I have not spoken directly in relation to this issue since the contretemps began. A number of lawyers, academics and ordinary members of the public have expressed their views on the constitutional legality and/or propriety of what the Opposition is doing. Most of those persons- 1 do not doubt all of them well meaning- have taken extreme positions one way or the other. The view that I want to put to the Senate- it is a view that I expressed publicly in Queensland recently- is that the constitutional fabric which clothes Australian society does not consist solely of the written Constitution. It consists also of the body of rules, precedents and practices which have been built up over a period of three-quarters of a century and which, in line with the development of the constitutions of other countries where those constitutions are not written, comprise just as important a part of our constitutional fabric as does the written Constitution. Therefore, I am prepared to concede for the purposes of this debate, because I have conceded it publicly that the Senate does have, according to the written Constitution, the strict legal power to reject- but, I will suggest later, not to continue to defer- a money Bill. 
That is only half of the constitutional position that has to be met by an Opposition which will be judged in history as to whether it is acting with constitutional propriety. I repeat that side by side with that written Constitution there lies that body of practice, convention and rules without which this country could not have survived over a period of three-quarters of a century including 2 world wars. That is the simple proposition that I assert. If that view is correct, then there can be no doubt whatsoever that the Opposition is behaving unconstitutionally in this situation. I do not say 'illegally' in the sense that court action could be taken against the Opposition or that in some way a judgment of a court could be obtained to the effect that what it is doing is constitutionally illegal. But if 50 per cent of our constitutional fabric is the written Constitution and the other 50 per cent is that body of rules, practice and conventions that I assert it is, then the Opposition, on its own stance, stands convicted of having acted unconstitutionally in this matter and of persisting in acting unconstitutionally in this matter. 
The second constitutional matter to which I wish to refer is the assertion that was made by  Senator Rae  last week and repeated, although without detailed argument, by  Senator Carrick  this afternoon. It is that the situation which now confronts the Senate could be solved quite simply because the Constitution, so they said, had written into it the means whereby this very problem could be solved, namely, section 57 and a double dissolution. How demonstrably ridiculous that is. It is pure chance that at the moment there are 22 Bills which could be the subject of a request by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  to the Governor-General for a double dissolution. The suggestion of  Senator Rae  that section 57 of the Constitution was intended to provide the safeguard for the solution of the type of problem that now confronts the Senate indicates, I suggest, a situation that is either impracticable or at times impossible. How could section 57 possibly be used in the normal case in which an Opposition says that it will block the Budget? If there were no double dissolution Bills, that Bill itself would have to be treated as a double dissolution Bill. But after what period of time? Three months would have to elapse before it could be presented again. Then the further procedure of section 57 would have to be followed. I said that in many cases that procedure would be impossible because there cannot be a double dissolution within 6 months of the date of the expiry of the House of Representatives by effluxion of time. If, fortuitously, there were to be a House of Representatives election in, shall we say, February or March, the procedure of section 57 would be impossible of application. Yet we have heard  Senator Rae, Senator Carrick  and, I believe, another senator- I shall not name her because I am not certain in her case- saying that the simple solution to this was put into the Constitution deliberately. What a lot of rubbish! 
I noted that  Senator Carrick  in his speech this afternoon referred to principles and precedents and to how important it was to preserve them. I noted his words- 'principles and precedents'. The Opposition is breaking every principle and every precedent by persisting in this action. I noted his words when he then spoke of the arrogance and the impertinence of the Whitlam Government. It really is a shame that a government can be so arrogant that, after having been returned to power as recently as May 1974, it asserts that it ought to be able to finish its term when it continues to have a majority in the House of Representatives! I wonder whether the arrogance and impertinence would more appropriately lie with the Opposition. I just pose the question. 
Let us have a look at what the Opposition is relying on. There was no doubt that about a week or 8 days ago the Opposition was relying heavily on  Mr Khemlani  in order to provide the final nail to convince the people that its banditry should be accepted. With a heavy orchestration we find a situation in which  Mr Khemlani  arrived in Sydney last Monday illegally- we have heard the explanation of what happened about that and of how the Government accommodated him- and immediately was embraced, literally, by the Opposition. He was closeted with the Opposition for a considerable period and everyone waited for the revelations that were going to bring down the Whitlam Government. Within 24 hours the attitude had cooled a little. Within another 24 hours it was pretty obvious that nothing was going to happen. Today it became perfectly clear that the Opposition had chickened out. What explanation does it seek to give- or is it an example of its arrogance that it considers it does not have to give explanations? What explanation can it give for having heralded so firmly the arrival of  Mr Khemlani  and for it now having given away any opportunity that it had to call  Mr Khemlani  before the Bar of the Senate? The people of Australia will not be fooled by that. The people of Australia can draw only one inference, and that is that the Opposition thought that it had a winner. It turned out to be a loser and the Opposition has dumped it. That is what the Opposition has done. 
I ask the Senate to note that the Opposition's motion to set up a select committee is not the clear cut proposition that the public might think. The motion was virtually stillborn yesterday because the Leader of the Opposition,  Senator Withers,  when he gave notice of it, labelled it as a holding motion. What was it holding? Was it holding up the crumbling fabric and the tactics of the Opposition that are reverberating now in its own face? That is usually the fate of brigands, bandits and thugs. The Leader of the Opposition also said yesterday morning that the Opposition would not necessarily proceed with the motion. I suggest that in those words  Senator Withers  damned the logic of the establishment of such a committee. He damned its purpose, he damned its efficacy and he damned the Opposition itself. 
I ask the Senate to note also that this morning, when  Senator Withers  said that the motion was not going to be proceeded with today or that it was not the desire of the Opposition to proceed with it today, he also said that it was more than possible that the motion would proceed on Tuesday. Is this the language of a resolute Party? This is an issue that has been blown up out of all perspective by the Opposition until it has become the basis of the death of the Whitlam Government, according to the Opposition. 
I cannot hear the interjection. It would help if the honourable senator interjected in a loud voice. Then I could hear. 
I do not quite understand the relevance of that comment in the context of what I was saying. One could go on but I believe that everyone in this Parliament is bored. Certainly everyone gives that impression- not just because I am speaking. It has been apparent for days. I believe the Opposition has only one honourable thing to do and that is not to act unconstitutionally, which I assert it is doing. Twice in the past week or so  Senator Hall  has tried to impress on the Opposition how foolishly it is acting because it is welding the Government into a force that, when it wants to go to the people as is its right, will be swept back to power. That is my view. I oppose the Opposition tactics and will continue to do so. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Mulvihill)-  Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENTOrder! 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- 
Order, please.  Senator Rae  has the floor. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- 
Order! 
-Can the Minister for Foreign Affairs provide the Senate with any information on the recently concluded talks in Rome between the Indonesian and Portuguese Foreign Ministers on the situation in Portuguese Timor? How does the Australian Government view the outcome of those talks? 
1 wish to speak briefly to this motion because 1 doubt very much whether at least some members of the Opposition realise just what they are doing by invoking standing order 364 in these circumstances. It is inevitable that this motion will be agreed to and that the documents will be tabled, but that result will have been achieved by the Opposition, in my submission, choosing an extremely wrong procedure when, while it continues to have the numbers, it has open to it two completely proper forms of procedure. The simple fact is that  Mr Khemlani  has become the foster child of the Opposition. 1 hear the laughter from  Senator Sim,  but I believe that members of the Opposition are acting as good foster parents. 
Members of the Opposition became aware of the fact that  Mr Khemlani  was about to arrive in Australia. They organised government transport to meet him at the nearest airport. That is a quite proper thing to do. Then they took him to a $23- a-night motel, but the pressure was a little hot there so they removed him- again acting like good foster parents- to the more rarified atmosphere of the Lakeside Hotel. They gave him the very best counsel that they were able to muster during the next 24 hours. I use the words 'that they were able to muster', because I should imagine that  Senator Missen  was not invited to advise on the documents; otherwise I think that the result might have been quite different. I do not believe that  Senator Missen  would have got his 2 professions of law and politics so mixed up as to do what  Mr Ellicott  did; that is, act like a lawyer, speak properly in Sydney at lunchtime on the Tuesday and say that there was nothing to implicate the Prime Minister in the 8 suitcases of documents, and then come back to Canberra about 4 hours later, act like a politician and retreat from the previous position.  Senator Missen  would not have done that because he is an honourable man. All I can say is that it is a great pity that the Opposition does not take more notice of  Senator Missen  in the negotiations that are taking place, and seek his advice. I said that there were open to the Opposition 2 options which were proper. One was to do what I believed from all the media statements that I read about 9 days ago the Opposition would do, that is, to call  Mr Khemlani  to the Bar of the Senate. 
-Not at all.  Senator Sim  does not read what the Prime Minister says. On several occasions the Prime Minister has virtually challenged the Opposition - 
-We decided that we would continue the fight against blackmail- if  Senator Sim  wants it like that. That is what we decided, and we will use all proper means to do it. If  Senator Sim  wants to know anything further about our Caucus meeting I will tell him privately. The Opposition could have chosen that course and there would have been not a onesided recounting by  Mr Khemlani,  if he is so minded, of events traversing now nearly 12 months; there would have been a proper opportunity for cross-examination. 
-Of course it would have been under privilege, but it would have been balanced. As a balanced legal practitioner  Senator Missen  must know that it is important, when material is going out to the public, to ensure that it be balanced and that it not simply be the ipse dixit of the deponent of the affidavit or statutory declaration.  Senator Missen  knows that as well as every other honourable senator in this chamber. The second course that could have been taken was for the Opposition to proceed with the motion of which it gave notice in this chamber last Wednesday, and require that this document- it has the numbers to get its select committee if it wants it - 
-The Opposition had embraced  Mr Khemlani,  his 8 suitcases and all his documents for 72 hours by the time notice of the motion was given.  Mr Ellicott,  who after all was a senior Queen's Counsel in Sydney and still is, was able to say after examining the documents: 'There is nothing in them to implicate the Prime Minister'. 
I am not at all worried about that, but I am very much worried about the manner in which the Opposition in the Senate is using standing order 364 and its numbers. I urge the Opposition to consider whether it is proper for a member of a Party in a majority fortuitously in the Senate- whether or not the Opposition uses the vote of a deceased senator is not material to my argument- to come along to the Senate and to say: 'I have a statutory declaration from a certain person- inferentially implicating the Government, or purporting to do so- and I am going to read a section from it', and then by pre-arrangement for the Opposition Whip to get up and move under standing order 364. 
-I do not appreciate what the Opposition Whip is endeavouring to get at, but I will not be diverted from drawing attention to what I submit is fundamentally wrong, regardless of the politics of the matters. Does it mean that in the days when the previous Government was infamously committing this country to war in Vietnam, if with the support of the Australian Democratic Labor Party the Opposition had produced a statutory declaration which purported to prove that the former Prime Minister had lied in relation to our involvement, it would have been proper to get that declaration before the public by this means? That to me is the issue. I submit that it is fundamentally wrong. 
I am not at all worried about what is in the document that I have not seen, because I have sufficient respect for  Senator Withers'  perspicacity to know that when he picked out what he thought was the plum in the statutory declaration- he has seen it, we have not- all he was able to point to was what I believed he called paragraph 15, and that contains a statement as I recall it by the deponent,  Mr Khemlani,  that apparently the Prime Minister knew of some continuing involvement of the Prime Minister. What was the evidence that  Senator Withers  quoted from that statutory declaration to support that? It was the fact that on 7 
December 1974  Mr Connor  had said he had talked to  Mr Whitlam  about the interest rate. Good God, the Bunbury police court, the Scottsdale police court or even the Hobart police court would not be guilty of hanging anyone on that. 
I am concerned-I thought that  Senator Missen  had assented to my proposition- that it is extremely dangerous for the Opposition in the Senate to use its numbers and standing order 364 in this way when it has other avenues open to it. Why does it not move to set up the select committee? 
It may happen, and we will take a certain attitude then. 
-Senator Withers will learn then. He does not tell us what he is going to do, and we will not tell him what we are going to do. That is a separate issue. I will not be diverted. The Opposition has the numbers to set up the select committee. If the Opposition is really serious in getting to the public the truth of this matternot a one-sided story, but a story tested by crossexamination why did it not today, before it adopted this procedure, move for the setting up of the select committee and let the statutory declaration go to the committee? The Opposition has the numbers to set up the committee, and it knows it. 
Will not  Senator Withers  let  Senator Missen  see a copy?  Senator Missen  must be a dangerous person. 
-Oh, nonsense! I have never heard such a ridiculous statement.  Senator Withers,  having had the document for a number of hours that he can tell us- was it 2 days, 48 hours or 72 hours? 
It was 9. 1 5 last night. Do I take it that  Senator Missen  has never looked at the document? 
I think that  Senator Missen  is trying to draw a red herring across the trail. The point is that before the motion to table this document was moved, all Opposition Senators had the opportunity, if they wished, to see the document. 
-Dear, oh dear, oh dear! Of course they had the opportunity to see it if they were anxious to see it. The matter could have waited until tomorrow. What was magic about today, if  Senator Sim  had not had time to look at the document? 
-That may be all right. The Opposition can make light of this matter. Opposition senators will live to regret that they used standing order 364 in this manner. Finally, on the merits, lest it be said that we want to conceal something, if  Senator Withers  could not produce out of the document that undoubtedly he has read something a little more cogent than paragraph 15 and the evidence in the document allegedly supporting what is contained in paragraph 15, all I can say is that this is much ado about nothing. 
Motion (by  Senator Sim)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation. Is the Minister aware of the announcement today that third party insurance premiums in Tasmania are to rise by over 70 per cent, that is, from $35 per annum to $60 per annum? Is this a further indication that the existing system is moving inexorably to extinction and must be replaced by a proper alternative? 
Having listened to  Senator Wright's  speech, I am completely uncertain as to what his actual complaint is. Is it a complaint against the accuracy of reporting by the Australian Broadcasting Commission? Is it a complaint against me for having asked a question? Is it a complaint against the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation  (Senator Wheeldon)  for having answered the question or for the content of his answer?  Senator Wright's  speech was also remarkable for 2 factors. In the first place, his arithmetic is abysmally poor. For  Senator Wright  to represent or misrepresent an increase of $14 to $35 as being an increase of 300 per cent would hardly qualify him to be called a disciple of Einstein. In addition to that, he made 3 gross errors of fact which I shall list. He said in his speech that  Senator Wheeldon  had self generated the question. 
-Ah, yes, sir. 
Well, if the implication was that  Senator Wheeldon  initiated that question this morning, let me say that that is completely untrue. 
Of course you did.  Hansard  will show it. The simple fact that I wish to put on the record is that I handwrote that question myself some 20 minutes after the commencement of question time, made  a  handwritten copy for myself, walked down to  Senator Wheeldon,  handed it to him, and said that I proposed to ask the question as soon as I could. From that moment onwards, I endeavoured to catch your eye,  Sir, and  eventually you gave me the call and I asked the question. 
The second gross misstatement of fact of which  Senator Wright  was guilty was that he described me sarcastically as an angel of change. I have never considered myself as an angel in respect of anything. The third matter that I thought should have been omitted from  Senator Wright's  speech was his slighting reference to the family affairs of the Premier causing some apparent error. The simple fact is that the mother of the Premier died early this week. I would have thought that  Senator Wright  would have had enough experience in this chamber not to attempt to humiliate through death the Premier of a State, even though he is his political opponent. I consider that it was a dastardly comment, of which he ought to be ashamed. 
The simple fact is that the question was properly put following, it is true, my hearing on the ABC  National News  this morning in Canberra the reference that  Senator Wright  has read out. I cannot remember the precise words, but it alerted me to what was happening. Certain inquiries were made. As  Senator Wheeldon  has said, there is a report in the  Mercury  of this morning's date. But I was more particularly concerned with a statement made by the Premier of Tasmania, I would say some 10 days to 14 days ago. It was a public statement in which he said that it was certain- I paraphrase his words- that within a short time third party insurance premiums would have to rise steeply. Those are words paraphrasing his statement; I have not the precise reference before me. On the basis of that information, with complete propriety and with complete accuracy, the question was asked of  Senator Wheeldon  this morning: 
Is this a further indication that the existing system is moving inexorably towards extinction and must be replaced by a proper alternative? 
That was a proper question. It was properly answered by  Senator Wheeldon,  with respect to him, and I am at a complete loss to understand the speech made by  Senator Wright  on the adjournment motion this evening, the precise basis of which I just cannot see. I repeat what I said at the beginning: It seemed to be a complaint against the Australian Broadcasting Commission. But where is the evidence that the report on the ABC this morning was inaccurate? I suggest there was none and that the whole speech by  Senator Wright,  especially in the reference to the Premier of Tasmania, was completely unworthy. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-l shall not detain the Senate for very long but I do wish to refer again very briefly to the matter that was raised on the adjournment of the Senate yesterday, namely the increase in third party insurance premiums in Tasmania. I wish ' to inform the Senate that in today's Hobart  Mercury  there is a report of an official statement by the Attorney-General of Tasmania indicating that increases of more than 70 percent will occur from the beginning of December. I propose to read the introductory paragraph and the concluding paragraph and then to seek leave to have the report incorporated in  Hansard.  The first paragraph reads: 
Premiums for Tasmania's no-fault motorist insurance scheme will increase by an average of more than 70 per cent from the start of December. 
The concluding paragraph, referring to the State Attorney-General, reads: 
He predicted that if costs kept going up there would have to be another rise next year. 
In view of the official confirmation of the Australian Broadcasting Commission report on Canberra radio yesterday morning, I submit to the Senate that it was grossly unfair of  Senator Wright  yesterday to refer to that report as garbled, as one of muddled ignorance and as one that was biased towards party political propaganda. I seek leave to have the extract from the Hobart  Mercury  of today incorporated in  Hansard,  Mr President. 
I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  Senator Wriedt:  What effect will the continuing deferral of the Senate's approval of the Appropriation Bills have on the restoration of the Tasman Bridge and associated works? If delay is occasioned by the Opposition's action is it considered that this will cause added and unnecessary hardship to eastern shore residents of Hobart and inconvenience and loss to all residents of Southern Tasmania? 
I ask the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation: Is it a fact that the time taken by repatriation boards and war pensions entitlement appeal tribunals to determine claims and appeals for repatriation benefits has lengthened since the Government decided that these determining authorities should give reasons for their decisions? Can the Minister advise whether any steps are being taken to reduce the times now occupied? 
