I address a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate, ls there any truth in the statement that the new health benefits scheme, originally estimated in the election policy speech of the Prime Minister to cost $16m, is now estimated to cost an extra $S8m? What is the cause of the increase? Will extra medical and hospital benefits be forthcoming to patients or will $33m of this sum go directly to doctors and almost entirely to specialists? Could not this election promise be regarded as a blatant political falsehood by the Liberal Party to win votes at the last election? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Will the Government set up an all party joint parliamentary committee or a Senate select committee to investigate and report upon the extent of poverty in Australia, which is believed to affect over 10% of our population, for the purpose of abolishing poverty in what is so often claimed to be an affluent society? 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science inform the Senate, or obtain for the Senate, the number of Colombo Plan and private overseas students in Australia? Can he tell us also what justifies the Australian Government's bringing private students to this country when both universities and the governments in Singapore and Malaysia, whilst in support of Colombo Plan students, are not in support of the policy of private wealthy students coming here? Will the Government look further at this policy when so many thousands of our own students who hold the necessary qualifications are being refused entry to the universities, which have not the accommodation to admit them? 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for External Affairs advise whether the Government is in agreement with the statement made by the Indonesian Foreign Minister on the neutralisation of the Indian Ocean area and ridding the area of all defence equipment? Would the proposed defence base contemplated by the Government in Western Australia and the North West Cape installation at present under construction in that State conflict with the Indonesian Minister's policy? In view of the close cooperation of this Government and Indonesia since the days of the handing over of West New Guinea, did any discussion take place with the Australian Government before this statement was made by Indonesia's Foreign Minister? If the Government does not agree, what action is contemplated to have its views made known to all Australians and to the countries in this area? 
 I congratulate  Senator Donald  Cameron on his maiden speech. At some time all honourable senators have gone through that procedure. I believe the honourable senator is to be complimented upon his very fine contribution to this debate. A period of about  5i  months elapsed between the time that Parliament rose last year and the time at which His Excellency the Governor-General delivered his speech when we re-assembled last week. I entered Parliament in 1949, at the same time as His Excellency the GovernorGeneral. He is a man of great principle. He has not been a stooge as some people expected him to become. It is something new to hear from a Governor-General speeches which are not simply a re-hash of all the old material that has been delivered over a period of time. 
Unfortunately, His Excellency's Speech last week was a rehash of much of the material he was familiar with as a Minister. Much of it had previously been said by his precedessors as Governor-General. I do not think that the Governor-General was very happy at being placed in the position of having to rehash that material. I have heard His Excellency include in his speeches a call for leadership. Such a call must have been embarrassing to the Government. Although His Excellency has called for leadership for many months he has not been heeded, as is obvious from the Speech he had to deliver last week. 
The hostility that has been manifested by the Opposition in the Senate to the actions of the Government is not as great as the hostility that has been shown by Liberal Premiers of the States in statements they have made for some -weeks.  Mr Askin,  Premier of my home State of New South Wales, has reacted strongly. It has been pointed out that school children in New South Wales are taking lessons in corridors; hospital wards are closing through lack of nursing staff; and about 175,000 homes in Sydney, and the Wollongong area, are without sewerage. The suburbs of Bayview and Ingleside, about 14 miles from the centre of Sydney, are without sewerage facilities at present. The City of Sydney is losing its great natural advantages because of the flow of effluent from many sources around the coast. I am sure that honourable senators appreciate the concern of the people of New South Wales. They , are worried about shortages of police, hospital overcrowding and lack of trained teaching staff. The Speech of the Governor-General held no great thrill for the States. 

 His Excellency acknowledged the great mineral discoveries and the technological advances we are making at present. It can be truly said that Australia is sitting on a gold mine. Most Australians appreciate the great advantages inherent in that situation. However, all Australians want to know the means by which they can share in the benefits. What is our programme for the abolition of poverty? This is one of the most important problems facing governments all over the world. In the early days of this Parliament I proposed the setting up of a Senate select committee to inquire into all aspects of poverty in this country. It has been said many times that over 1 million people today live in Australia below the breadline - in what is termed an 'affluent society'. This must be the concern of all Australians, but unfortunately it does not appear to be the concern of the Government. 
The Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Anderson)  said in reply to a question I asked that various groups, all with good intentions, have set up bodies to make a study of the problems of poverty. He said that the Government had access to the reports of those bodies. I am aware that reports have been made on this subject, but we want to see something done. If Labor was in office today we would be very concerned to act on this matter. Proposals are before Parliament at present to set up a new timetable of sittings, so that we could meet for 2 weeks to do the business that at present, takes us 3 weeks, and then in the third week we could conduct the business of Senate committees. I believe that a Senate select committee should be set up to inquire into all aspects of poverty in Australia and to bring down a report upon which we could act. I have already said that about 1 million people live below the breadline in Australia. At least 500,000 people are living in complete poverty, about one-quarter of whom are age pensioners. Many of them are cold in winter because they cannot afford heating. Some of them are dirty because they are too ill and too weak to wash. They cannot do their own washing and have no-one to do it for them. This unfortunate situation exists at present. 
Although these stories have been told before, nothing has been done about them. Amongst the poor are 10-year-old children who wear their mothers' shoes to school or go barefooted in winter and girls of 12 years who are exempted by the authorities from going to school so that they can stay at home and care for the younger children in the family. This is necessary because the mothers are sick and unable to cope. In the community are widowed mothers who starve themselves so that they can buy books and uniforms for their school children. Investigators have brought out these facts on many occasions, but they have not been accepted by this Parliament because we have never made a study of them. I believe it is fitting that the Senate should initiate an investigation of all aspects of poverty amongst our people. 
Last year at the Australian Law Convention in Brisbane  Mr R.  S. Watson, Q.C., said that there are about 90,000 deserted wives in Australia, about 33,000 of whom have children. We do not hear of these people in the talk of the great wealth that this nation is producing. I have made these appeals before. 1 hope that before the end of next week 1 will be permitted through the forms of the Senate to request again an investigation into the problems of mentally and physically handicapped people. We know very little about these people. Are we doing all we should for these people in our affluent society in an age of great advances? We should be developing our understanding of handicapped and disabled people. Are there adequate services and the knowledge necessary to meet the demands of disabled people? Such questions should be considered by this Parliament. When they are considered we will have a different understanding of the situation that confronts these people at present. 
I should like to have heard more in the Governor-General's Speech on the problems in education. I asked  Senator Wright,  who represents the Minister for Education and Science, a question concerning overseas students who are coming to Australia. Having been to both Malaysia and Singapore, I know that these people coming here as private students are looked upon unfavourably by the universities and by the governments of both Malaysia and Singapore. When we realise that many of our own students are unable to enter universities because of lack of facilities, I wonder whether we are doing the right thing in allowing these overseas students to come here. In New South Wales over 3,000 students, who passed the higher school certificate examinations and who were suitably qualified, were refused teachers training scholarships due to lack of Commonwealth funds. This is happening at a time when New South Wales is desperately short of trained teachers and classrooms are overcrowded. These are questions upon which we expected the Governor-General to be more explicit in his Speech to this Parliament. 
No. I said that the private students who are coming here are looked upon unfavourably by both the universities and the governments of their own countries. Those governments endorse the Colombo Plan, but they are not favourably disposed towards private students coming to Australia. There are many thousands of them here, and I believe that they are excluding our own students from universities. We heard the report of the GovernorGeneral, on the subject of health and hospitals, and we know that in the very near future the Government proposes to bring down a statement on this issue. The headlines in the Press, of course, inform us that the Commonwealth's health scheme is an elaborate bluff by the Government in an attempt to force doctors to accept the common fee. The cost of the Government's election promises regarding health was approximately $16m, but now 1 am led to believe that the figure is in the vicinity of $32m. 
As my colleague points out, it could be even higher than that figure. A threat has been made to doctors about what will happen to them if a Labor government is elected to office. That seems to be the only reason why doctors are backing the Government's proposal at the present time. A recent headline in the Press read: 'Fees: Government Warns Doctors'. Another Press report states that the Australian Medical Association has asked for major changes in the health scheme, that doctors do not agree with the list of common fees, and that the health scheme has been rejected. The unfortunate part is that while this controversy is proceeding the patients have to pay. J believe that the Government should be concerned about what is actually taking place. 
Turning to the subject of housing, I point out that more than 60,000 Australian families are living in sub-standard accommodation. Some of them, according to reports, have to continue to live this way because they are not in a position to purchase homes. This is the situation with which we are presently confronted. I believe that a Labor government would alter this situation. It was pointed out in the last election campaign the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  put forward a proposal for a subsidy to reduce by 2% the interest paid by newly weds in their first 10 years of marriage. It was pointed out that this would mean that on a permanent building society loan of $12,000 over 20 years they would save $200 a year. This was a good system which deserved attention. The Government has stolen a number of policies from the Labor Party. It would not do any harm for it to look at this proposal. I believe that Australians generally, as well as we in the Australian Labor Party, would be quite happy to see such a scheme introduced because we are anxious to see that the Australian people are properly looked after, irrespective of what political party forms the government. It is our job and responsibility to see that the best assistance is provided. We on this side of the Parliament are prepared to co-operate and to assist in every possible way. 
I turn now to the war service homes scheme. This is a scheme which also is petering out because less demand is being made on it. The huge profits which are now flowing to the Government from the scheme could be utilised in many ways to provide opportunities for the Australian people.  Senator Cavanagh  did quite a good job in raising a question concerning Aboriginals, and later on I want to deal with this subject of Aboriginals because there are certain areas in which 1 think the Government could help considerably, particularly in my own State of New South Wales. With regard to the burden of debts on the Slates and on local government and semi government authorities, I ask: What is the Government's intention? We have never heard anything about it. Very little was said about this matter in  His  Excellency's Speech, and very little has been said by the Government itself. What  is the Government's  intention regarding our primary producers? Something more will have to be done for primary producers because they, too, are creating a tremendous furore at the present time. 
That is right. As  Senator Devitt  has pointed out. it is being done in such a variety of ways that it is mesmerising everyone at the present time. 
We support the United Nations, because it must succeed for the world to survive. The Australian Labor Party played a special role in the formation of the United 
Nations.  Dr Evatt  was the first  President  of the United Nations, and he was one of the principal authors of the Charter of Human Rights. He was a defender of the small nations. Labor - and I say this without hesitation - would provide another man in the United Nations with the same drive and the same principles as  Dr Evatt  applied. As I have said on a number of occasions, if  Dr Evatt  were at the United Nations today he would tear asunder that chamber in striving, demanding and trying to solve the problems that exist throughout the world, particularly in countries such as Vietnam, Biafra, Northern Ireland, the Middle East and Laos.  Dr Evatt  was a great defender of and fighter for world peace. Again I say that in the United Nations at the present time we need a spokesman for democracy - a man who will defend the small nations.  Dr Evatt  was certainly crucified in his own country, but he was revered elsewhere throughout the world. He was one of the founders of Israel. The war in the Middle East must be stopped. There is no question about that. A Press headline in the past week mentioned King Hussein's reference to a major Israeli blow being possible soon, with some degree of terror. Another headline said that Moscow is to boost Arab defence aid. Of course, we know that a third world war could eventuate unless the present dispute is settled. 1 have been to Israel. 1 was very pleased and thrilled to be there. I was delighted to see the great dedication to duty of the younger and the older people in Israel. They have a job to do. They recognise it and they do it. Israel is virtually a garden in an arid area. When one looks from a plane over Israel one sees the work that has been done. People throughout the world who do not appreciate the great contribution that has been made by the Israeli people are very hard to please. As I have said, the present dispute must be stopped. I brought back books which indicated exactly how the Israelis feel at the present time. Statements such as 'Israel must be annihilated' are distributed throughout Israel from the Arab world. I am not suggesting for one moment that there is not some fear on the side of the Arab people and 1 am concerned that the problems confronting them should be solved. But. surely to God, somewhere in the world at the present time there is somebody whom the United Nations should be utilising in order to bring about understanding between these people.I believe that both sides want peace. Certainly disharmony exists, but there is so much distrust between the two sides that somebody must be there to bring about a realisation that peace should and must be brought about. I believe that it is our responsibility to procure such an understanding. 
-I do not know, butI believe that we in Australia must also answer for that. We should be doing something more effective in the United Nations. Our people should be speaking and continuing to speak until something is done or somebody takes some action. For the life of me,I cannot understand why these people are not brought together and why some degree of understanding cannot be secured. It is shocking to find the loss of life that is taking place there at the present time. 
We have made statements on the question of Vietnam. There is no doubt that the Government knows exactly what our thoughts on Vietnam are. Some 15 years ago the British Commissioner-General for South East Asia,  Mr Malcolm  MacDonald, addressed a gathering of people in the high echelons in Washington. A report of his address contained these words: 
. the most potent weapons for fighting Communism in Asia are good wages, adequate food, social security and personal liberty. 

 Mr MacDonald said that these essentials were more effective than guns and planes. 
He added that the Communists could be stopped in South East Asia if the United States and Britain gave Asian governments firm and sympathetic support in resisting either economic, political or military aggression. 
He pointed out that Asian Communists were preparing for intensive political warfare which could be extremely dangerous to the security of the democratic nations. 

 Mr MacDonald added that the struggle between the Communist and anti-Communist forces in the area might alternate between armed hostilities and a bitter struggle on the economic and political fronts. 
I used that quotation in a speech in the House of Representatives about 15 years ago.  Dr Evatt,  who followed me in the debate, supported the statement. The fact is that the democratic nations have been warned.. Everyone knew what would happen. People today talk about the impossible war or the unwinnable war in Vietnam. The democratic world was warned about this years ago. The democratic world has been warned about a lot of other things, too. 
The Vietnam war is the only war in history which is being lost by superior forces with complete charge of the air fighting against enemy forces which, according to United States official figures, have been wiped out at least twice. The reason is that the people who are supposed to be their friends are opposed to the United States forces, the Australian forces and everyone else being there and fighting in that country. The sooner we get out of Vietnam the happier everyone throughout the length and breadth of the world will be. I repeat that warnings of what would happen were issued. Warnings were issued about India. Today India is becoming a great threat and great menace to the democratic world. 
Yes, India. 
India is in grave danger of going Communist. About 10 or 12 years ago that very well known columnist, Walter Lippmann, said: 'I warn the democratic world of the dangers of what is taking place in India. If we want to show the Communist world that democracy has more to offer than Communism has, let us take a country that is desperately in need, build it up and show that something can be done there. I suggest that we do not take a country adjoining China because that would be scorned. Let us take India and let the great democracies show that India can be built up, conditions of hunger can be eliminated and conditions of want, pestilence and disease can be wiped out in that country. That is the way we can win the Asian people to the side of democracy. I challenge America and Britain to take up this challenge now and to make India a worthwhile country and one to which everyone can look and say: "This is a country in which democracy has shown exactly what it can do".' 
India was the country for which we should have done something because if it had gone Communist at the same time as Russia went Communist the whole world may have followed. When this situation occurred we should have said: 'Here is the opportunity. Let us do something along these lines.' But unfortunately the situation has just gone on and on. When Walter Lippmann issued his challenge he said: 'I do not expect the democratic countries to take up my challenge because there are no profits to be made and one can understand that if there are no profits to be made the democratic countries will not be greatly interested'. 
Honourable senators opposite talk about their fear and dread of Communism. Many men on this side of the Parliament are just as concerned as they are. However, we recognise that unless poverty, unemployment and disease are removed and unless security is given to people in all parts of the world Communism will always be a great threat. We have the opportunity right now to do something to solve the problems that produce Communism. The Government can do something if it wishes to. This is a question that should concern us not only here in Australia but also in the United Nations and in other parts of the world where our spokesmen voice our opinions. If we members of the Australian Labor Party were in government today we would produce once more a man of the calibre of  Dr Evatt  - a man who won world standing as a fighter for small nations and made Australia's name respected throughout the world. But, unfortunately, that is not the position at the present time. Until such time as we have somebody from the Labor Party speaking for Australia in the United Nations and in other parts of the world we will continue to find ourselves in awkward positions such as those we are in at present. 
Sitting suspended from 5.45 to 8 p.m. 
At the suspension of the sitting I was discussing aspects of the Speech by his  Excellency  the Governor-General. I wish to touch on the subject referred to by  Senator Cavanagh  this afternoon: That is the disgraceful conduct exhibited towards Aboriginal women at Yuendumu settlement. My plea is of a somewhat different type from that of  Senator Cavanagh.  I hope it will be drawn to the attention of the Minister-in-Charge of Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Wentworth).  We are all very much concerned about this subject. I ask leave to continue my remarks at  a  later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
When speaking earlier this evening in this debate 1 made a plea for proper hostel accommodation for young Aboriginals coming from the country to the city. I expressed the hope that that plea would be drawn to the attention of the Minister in Charge of Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Wentworth).  It is estimated that each week about twenty-five young Aboriginals come to Sydney looking for work. They have no place to stay. Most people are aware that Aboriginals live by a very high code and principles. Whilst Aboriginals living in Sydney may have no extra space for beds in their homes, no Aboriginal is ever turned away. At present these people are living in fear that their homes could be condemned. 
Migrants to Australia are provided with hostel accommodation. Aboriginals rightly ask: 'Why are we not provided with accommodation?' Church organisations provide some relief. Although the situation is known to people in authority, very little is done about it. In October 1968 the Minister in 
Charge of Aboriginal Affairs stated that about $5,000 had been granted to make a start in the provision of hostel accommodation. That promise was recorded on tape by Aboriginal leaders. They ask: 'Where?' 
I draw attention to the journal entitled Kun-Mang-Gur' which is published by the Office of Aboriginal Affairs. The issue before me points out at page 2 that about $31,616 has been provided for adult education courses run by the Department of Adult Education at the University of Sydney, and it gives details of other facilities which are available. But my information, which comes from very high sources in the Aboriginal world, is that these people do not know of one Aboriginal adult who has been educated. A number of Aboriginals may not appear to be articulate, but they know what is going on and they certainly have a number of spokesmen who are prepared to risk a great deal of security in order to put forward a case on the Aboriginals' behalf. 
The seeds of racial violence are a real thing, because of the association of all these Aboriginal people in homes. Up to 30 or 40 people are living in 2-bedroom or 3-bedroom homes. These people will sleep on the floor in order to get accommodation. This can lead to racial violence, and it is a matter about which we all must be concerned. The Aboriginal people have pointed out that we have sent men to the moon but Aboriginals are not allowed into theatres in some country towns. They recognise the desperate plight which is facing them, and they frequently repeat the statement: 'You can send men to the moon, but unfortunately you are not able to do very much for us.' We have the situation where in some country towns Aboriginals are barred from entering theatres. In some theatres the first four rows of seats are reserved for them and they are allowed to enter after the lights go out. Barbers in certain areas will not cut their hair. Aboriginals are not allowed into certain hotels. They are not allowed to use glasses in milk bars. These are the conditions in which these unfortunate people are living. They are not concerned about politics, but they are concerned about survival and they are greatly concerned about the injustices which must be immediately overcome. Despite all the money that is presently being spent on literature and various other things. 1 make a plea on behalf of these people to the Government, which now has power to deal with these matters, to go ahead with the job. 
Although 1 spoke before the sitting of the Senate was suspended for dinner and again after the suspension of the sitting before the Minister for Supply  (Senator Anderson)  made his statement, there is still one other matter I want to raise. J refer to the Maltese people who are living in Australia. In doing so I point out that I met Maltese Ministers and the Prime Minister of Malta while on an overseas visit in September 1969.  Dr Tabone,  who is the Maltese Minister for Social Services, gave me and a number of my colleagues to understand that he believed the reciprocal social service arrangement between Malta and Australia would be signed before last Christmas. He was given to understand that, I believe, from authentic sources in Australia with whom he discussed the question. Honourable senators know of my interest in this matter. I have raised the matter in the Parliament on numerous occasions. The Maltese want an agreement similar to the one which presently operates with Great Britain and New Zealand. 
In January 1968 the Leader of the Malta Labour Party,  Mr Dom  Mintoff, came to Australia to discuss this agreement. Before I left for overseas 1 read the correspondence which passed between  Mr Mintoff  and the Australian Minister for Social Services during  Mr Mintoff's  visit to Australia. I personally believed that the Maltese Labour leaders were promised this agreement, and it is about time that the promise was honoured. The Maltese are British subjects. They are asking that they receive treatment similar to that given to other British citizens from Great Britain and from New Zealand. 
 They are British subjects, and as British subjects they are entitled to receive the benefits of a reciprocal social service agreement. It is time that the Government took steps to honour its promise. It has given all sorts of assurances.  Dr Tabone  who, as I have said, is Minister for Social Services in Malta, was also told that this would be done. I am sure all honourable senators know that the 
Maltese are British subjects. During the last war they were granted the George Cross for great valour. This matter should be dealt with promptly, because if we are to secure migrants we will have to give social service rights to migrants who have been naturalised. The Australian Labor Party would do this. That is part and parcel of our policy. Provided a person becomes naturalised, he should be given that right. Our policy states that Australian citizens shall not cease to receive pensions because of residence abroad, and 1 believe that this is a matter to which this Government has to give attention. Talks have been proceeding for a considerable time between the Maltese Government and the Australian Government and this agreement should be signed without delay. 
I have a list of the number of migrants over 55 years of age who left Malta for Australia between 1957 and 1968. They are classified by sex and age group. This information was given to me by  Dr V.  Tabone, the Maltese M bister for Social Services. Between 1957 and 1968 a total of 958 migrants over 55 years of age left Malta for Australia. There were 466 males and 492 females. I repeat that  Dr Tabone  believed that this agreement would be signed, and the Leader of the Maltese Labour Party,  Mr Dom  Mintoff, endeavoured throughout his stay in Australia to see the Australian Minister for Social Services.  Mr Mintoff  also had an understanding that this agreement would be signed. 
They are British subjects and they want rights similar to those given to British and New Zealand citizens. As British citizens they are entitled to this benefit. Over a period of some years I have been asking questions concerning Australian imports from Malta and Australian exports to that country, and in the last few weeks I have asked a question and have been given a reply by the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen).  It shows that at the present time our exports to Malta amount to $3,175,000 and our imports from Malta amount to $173,000. When one looks at the trade situation one realises how advantageous it is to Australia. 
Also I have received from the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Lynch)  information on the numbers of Maltese citizens who have entered Australia as settlers during the years 1965 to 1969. In 1965 the total number was 4,403. For the first 11 months of 1969 the total number was only 780. So Australia has to do something if it wants to continue the high rate of migration from Malta. The situation is that we are looking for migrants. We have hundreds of thousands of Maltese migrants here already, and they have been of great advantage to this country. 
Let me conclude my remarks tonight by saying that my wish and the objective of my Party is to build a better world - a world free of war, disease, poverty and insecurity. Tremendous changes have taken place in the past 10 years. We have sent mcn to the moon. We have found more uses for atomic power. We have seen huge budgets for war and defence. We have seen programmes for the use of atomic power for peaceful purposes. We long to see that day for we on this side of the Parliament look forward to a world in which men and women the world over can live in peace and contentment. This is the policy for which my Party stands and the policy that we want to see implemented in this country and throughout the world. 

 Senator Sir MAGNUS CORMACK (Victoria) [9.23]- The forms of the Senate require a form of procedure to deal with the Governor-General's Speech. This provides the Senate with an opportunity to range over a vast series of subjects. However fascinating it might be to go bushwalking with  Senator Fitzgerald  - I would like to do that - he has made so many botanical excursions off the road that I have not the time to go up those fascinating paths. I shall conform to the forms of the Senate and, without any reservations at all, congratulate  Senator Donald  Cameron on his maiden speech. I remember quite clearly - it is too long ago to give me any pleasure - being designated at very short notice as the mover of the motion for the adoption of the Address-in-Reply. 
I have a sense  of  sadness in that after 20 years I rise to speak for the second time in an Address-in-Reply debate. The sense of sadness relates to the changes that take place in the Parliament of which we are members. Men who were serving on both sides of the Senate when I first came here have now left the Senate. We have a whole new group of members of Parliament. But the interesting point is that the continuity of Parliament maintains itself. Although great numbers of them have left the Parliament - I made a note of how many were left after 20 years; the number is ten or eleven and includes the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Willesee)  and  Senator Byrne  - in going through the names of those who had left the Senate I was heartened to find that not all of them have gone down to the river bank and thrown their copper coins on the thwarts of the skiff manned by that curious character Charon, who I must say becomes more familiar to me as the years go by. 
Another point interested me upon finding myself compelled to move into this AddressinReply debate in order to provide members  of  the Opposition with an opportunity to say all the things they wish to say. I went back over the Governor-General's Speech in 1951, when 1 was the mover of the motion for the adoption of the AddressinReply. 1 found that there was a singular similarity between the Speech of 1951 and the Speech of 1970 on matters on which I hope I will enlighten and enlarge  Senator Cavanagh's  mind. 
That may be a pious hope, as  Senator Marriott  says, but I am willing to brace myself for the exercise. The interesting fact is that in 1951 one of the preoccupations in the Governor-General's Speech - the main one - was that Australia found itself involved in a violent war of the United Nations, which  Senator Fitzgerald  has been praising, in South Korea. The preoccupation of the Australian Government of that day was that the armed excursions of a Communist power had involved us in a violent war in Korea. If one reads the Governor-General's Speech one will notice it makes reference to a further excursion of Communist power with which Australia is involved in South Vietnam 20 years afterwards. The Speech also makes reference to the fact that Australia was involved in armed intervention in Malaya, as it was then called, in response to  a  Communist inspired excursion into Malaya. Twenty years later we are still involved in the problem of Communist expansion in the Asian area. I suggest that honourable senators who have come into this place in that period of nearly 20 years have overlooked this involvement. The problems posed by Communist expansion or Communist imperialism are still with us. Embedded in the Governor-General's Speech is this preoccupation with the expansion of Communist military power 20 years later. 
Involved in the Governor-General's Speech of 1951, when I first stood in my place here in the Senate, was the problem of Russia. At that time we had just managed to escape, for the time being, from the problem associated with the Berlin air lift when Russia attempted to seize the area east of the Oder River. In 1969 the world witnessed Russian armed excursions into Czechoslovakia. The problems are still with us. Notwithstanding anything which the Opposition say and has been saying for the last 10 years, the fact remains that the problems posed by the imbalance and pressures on the world by armed Communist aggression are still with us. Nothing that the Opposition can say either in Parliament or out on the hustings can alter the fact that the western world is involved in one of the most deadly and historical problems which have beset it since time immemorial; that is the rise of new powers armed by new ideologies who do not believe that the ideology shall be maintained by the basis of argument or discussion but shall be sustained and supported by armed force. 
As  Senator Rae  mentioned last Wednesday night, Laos is another example. The problems in relation to Australia in 1970 are the same as existed in 1951 when I first stood in my place in the Senate to deal with the motion for the adoption  of  the AddressinReply. The Governor-General's Speech of 1951 carried much of the overtones and much of the substance of the statement on defence which was delivered by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator 
Anderson) tonight. In 1951 Russia was controlled by a paranoic dictator. From intelligence which was gathered in those days it was well understood that he was a man who was willing to precipitate a third world war because, I believe, he was a man who had reached the stage of madness. I refer to the late  chairman  of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics,  Mr Stalin.  He conveniently died in 1953 for reasons which have never been quite clear, but thank God it did happen. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the PostmasterGeneral. I ask: In view of the current industrial unrest in post offices, will the Minister ask the Postmaster-General to remove the long-standing injustices which always will cause discontent; that is, will he immediately introduce the principles of a 5-day week in all post offices throughout the Commonwealth? At present the 5-day week operates in relation to a great number of Post Office activities. I further ask that the Postmaster-General be requested to arrange that proper overtime rates be paid to all employees when they work on Saturdays and Sundays, instead of the present 40% penalty rales paid in some instances, and thereby bring all PMG employees on the rate of overtime - a principle which currently applies to 85% of the Australian work force. I feel sure that this would bring harmony and good staff relationships within the PostmasterGeneral's Department. 
1  give notice that on the next day of sitting or so soon as the motion can be dealt with I shall move: 
Thai the Senate considers that there should be an inquiry into and report upon the problems of mentally and physically handicapped persons in Australia. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science a question. Will he seek, through the Minister for Education and Science, to iron out a problem that has arisen between the State of New South Wales and the Commonwealth concerning secondary teachers' scholarship tuition? Will the Minister ascertain whether it is true that the Australian National University in Canberra would willingly accept students living in nearby areas, such as Young, Yass, Cootamundra and Temora and adjoining areas, thereby saving young people from travelling hundreds of miles to Sydney? On behalf of the young men and women involved, will the Minister try to adjust the petty difference that has arisen between the respective Education Departments and overcome this problem, which affects a number of young Australians and their families'? 
1 ask the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science whether he is aware of the claim made by the State Government of New South Wales that owing to the limited amount of funds made available under the Commonwealth Educational Grant over 3,000 students who passed their Higher School Certificate examination in 1969 and who wished to make teaching their career had to be rejected by the State Government for teacher training scholarships although suitably qualified. This is despite the fact that the State of New South Wales is desperately short of trained teachers and has overcrowded classrooms. 
I ask the Minister what his Government intends to do to overcome this deplorable position. 
The Australian Labor Party agrees with the recommendation or the suggestion made by the Minister for Housing  (Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin). 
I believe it was proposed last night by the Leader of the Government  (Senator Anderson)  that these 2 Bills, the Social Services Bill 1970 and the Repatriation Bill 1970 be taken together but be dealt with separately in Committee. The 2 Bills propose amendments to the Social Services Act and the Repatriation Act. They are in respect of 2 matters. Firstly, the proposed amendment is to cover the case of a married couple in receipt of age or invalid pensions who, because of illness or infirmity or such reasons of a similar character, are forced to part indefinitely and are not able to live in the matrimonial home. 
This amendment proposes that in such circumstances a couple who previously obtained the married rate of pension will be entitled to a rate of pension at a standard or single rate, the married rate for each person being $13.25 per week and the single or standard rate being $15 per week. Under this new legislation couples may now receive an increase of $1.75 a week plus a grant of $2 supplementary assistance. We support that proposal. 
The second proposal relates to the death of either husband of wife in which case the surviving partner would be entitled to payment at the married rate for 12 consecutive weeks or for 6 consecutive fortnights. We support that proposal also. In numerous cases over many years senators on this side of the chamber have advanced proposals of a similar character. I suggest to the Government - I notice that departmental officers are in the chamber at present - that explanatory documents be distributed and this aspect should be made quite clear so that the person who is receiving the additional payment will know for how long he will be receiving it. Many of these unfortunate people who are going through difficult times sometimes feel that there might be an overpayment. I think a letter should be sent to the people concerned advising the circumstances of the new legislation. I ask departmental officers to take note of this matter because, as a parliamentarian, I know that at certain periods people do not know what is taking place and a great deal of confusion can occur. 
In many cases the Department has recognised the dire plight of pensioners and has done what this legislation regularises. The Bill is limited in its scope. We would have welcomed the opportunity to broaden the benefits to be made available under this legislation. I refer, for example, to funeral benefit and many other payments which are made at present. The sum of $40 for a funeral is absurd. The Australian Labor Party, which pioneered social service legislation in Australia, is far from satisfied that in this so-called affluent society our pensioners - those in need - are receiving what is necessary. In our proposals and policy put forward during the recent election campaign we made quite clear exactly what we would do in circumstances of this nature. I know that the Government has said that one of its social service aims is to seek out areas of special need. We feel that this legislation does not go far enough, and I ask that I be permitted to express the feelings of my Party on this matter and be excused, if need be, if I digress a little from the ambit of this rather limited Bill. 
We have a special plan and a new plan for assistance. It has been outlined. We feel that persons dependent on pensions, particularly pensioners living alone and widows with children, comprise a large portion of the 1 million Australians who live in real or marginal poverty. We will not eliminate poverty in Australia unless we have an entirely new approach to social welfare. The Australian Labor Party has a new approach to social welfare. We will adopt that new approach. In every comparable country it is recognised that cash benefits alone cannot provide an adequate response to welfare problems. If the 1 million poor, particularly the young, are to break out of the interminable poverty cycle, it will not be done by providing cash benefits alone. It will be done by also providing advice, counsel, training and retraining and by the provision of services in the home and neighbourhood by social workers. At the level of the home and neighbourhood we of the Labor movement propose the establishment of an Australian assistance plan. We would make grants under section 96 of the Constitution to enable State governments, local authorities and volunteer agencies to co-operate in the establishment of regional departments of social welfare. We would have been anxious and eager to put features of that kind into legislation relating to improved social service and repatriation benefits. I am pleased that the Minister- 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Laucke)  -  Senator, will  you please come back to the Bill? 
Yes. 1 am stating that I am pleased that the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  has given an assurance that single rate pensions will be paid even though both partners to the marriage are in the same nursing home. That is quite an important matter. It will overcome many problems associated with that aspect of the problem. 
We support the Bill. We do not want to delay it unduly because we know that a timetable is operating. We want the Bill to be passed without undue delay so that effect can be given to it. I repeat that we support the Bill. 
 I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation whether he has seen a pamphlet from the Returned Services League requesting a better deal for ex-servicemen. The League requests that an independent nonparliamentary committee be set up to make a complete review of repatriation matters, that there should be a general review of war and service pension rates, that repatriation hospital, medical and pharmaceutical benefits should be extended to all returned ex-servicemen of the First World War and the Boer War and that the funeral grant be increased from $50 to $150. Can the Minister say whether these just requests from the League will be granted by this Government? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Before legislation to amend the National Health Act is introduced into this Parliament will the Minister request the inclusion of a provision for the payment of Commonwealth benefits on a specialist basis to contributors to health schemes who attend an ophthalmologist and the specialist, after diagnosing an ocular disease, prescribes glasses? 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
In view of current industrial unrest, will the Postmaster-General remove a long-standing injustice by introducing a five day working week in all post offices throughout the Commonwealth,  a  practice which applies at present in agreat number of post office activities. 
Will the Postmaster-General arrange for the payment of proper overtime rates to all departmental employees who work on Saturdays and Sundays, as paid at present in many cases, instead of the 40% penalty rates, and thereby bring all employees within the principle of overtime which applies to 85% of the Australian work force. 
In mid-1967, Cabinet determined that Saturday Post Office services are essential as demand showed that the public needed them. Cabinet decided that in the light of the demand, Post Offices generally should continue to remain open on Saturdays and that the whole range of Saturday counter services should be maintained. A sample survey taken late last year showed that Post Offices are still busy on Saturdays and there is no justification for introducing a general 5 day working week into the industry. 
Where week-end work forms part of the ordinary weekly hours penalty rates are paid as prescribed in the relative Determinations of the Public Service Arbitrator. As in other areas of employment, overtime rates are paid only for work in excess of ordinary hours of duty. 
-Is the Minister for Civil Aviation aware that hostesses employed by the Government controlled company, Trans-Australia Airlines, do not receive the same advantages or benefits as do hostesses employed by the private company, Ansett Airlines of Australia? I refer to concessional allowances for hostesses for overseas travel, which apply after a period of 9 months employment with the private airline, whereas employees of TAA have to wait a period of 27 months before they receive such concessions. I also ask the Minister whether he will look into the policy on travelling allowances and meal arrangements for TAA hostesses who receive the bare minimum conditions when compared with the more decent and humane approach adopted by the private company. Will the Minister look into these matters which may appear to him to be minor but which are of great importance to the excellent hostesses employed by TAA? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Air. In view of the serious problems encountered by the Government in equipping Australia with proper aircraft for the defence of the country, can he advise whether the Government has any plans on hand to build here in Australia an all Australian defence aircraft? If not, will he make representations to the Government along those lines? Would not he agree that we have the skills; that having spent $300ni on the Fill we surely have the money; and that with the great powers about to quit South East Asia the need for an Australian aircraft industry was never greater? Will the Government build up an industry which could not only build but also service our own planes and not be bugged by such matters as patent rights, which are now involved in the servicing of overseas built planes? 1 can assure the Minister that all Australians believe that any country that can afford to buy the FI 1 1 can afford to build its own aircraft industry. 
Has the Minister representing the Attorney-General seen Press reports relating to our own Australian jockey Billy Pyers, at present living in France, who obviously is having great difficulties with the French courts over a traffic case which happened in France during 1 967 and has involved him in a gaol sentence and in numerous court appearances? Will the Minister request the Attorney-General immediately to contact the Australian office in Paris to ensure that every assistance is given to this Australian jockey who has been a good ambassador and who obviously is receiving a raw deal due to his lack of knowledge of French court procedure? 
Did the Acting Minister for External Affairs see in the Sydney Press on Sunday last a statement by Miss Anne Deveson drawing attention to an English newspaper article about the missing Australian journalist, Francis James, and staling 'whilst James languishes in gaol, somewhere on the mainland of China, nobody in Australia seems to be doing much to help him'? I ask the Minister whether the Australian Government has made any inquiries as to Ihe whereabouts of Francis James? If not, will the Australian Government do so, and inquire on a governmenttogovernment basis in order to find what we can as to the whereabouts of this man? As Australia is now the fourth largest trader amongst the countries of the world with mainland China, I ask the Minister: Should we not be able to secure reliable information as to the whereabouts of this Australian journalist? 
I  ask the Leader ofthe Government in the Senate: In view of statements of Government supporters who say they believe in the people's right to dissent and protest in our democracy, but who claim to he very concerned at the possibility of violence on the day of the forthcoming Vietnam Moratorium pro- test, will the Leader of the Government in the Senate request State governments to close off for 30 minutes traffic from certain streets in capital cities where these protests are to he held, as is frequently done for marches and like events, and thereby show that the Government is sincere in its endeavour to see peaceful protest demonstrations? Does not the Minister agree that such a decision to control and divert the free flow of traffic should be made in these circumstances, and that failure to give this direction could result in chaotic conditions as a result of which people could honestly accuse the Government of creating violence to further its own political future? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate as representative of the Prime 
Minister whose Department is in charge of the Royal tour of Canberra. Will he ensure that returned servicemen, particularly war pensioners, and widows and relatives of ex-servicemen are given No. 1 priority at the Australian War Memorial for the Anzac Day service which is to be attended by Her Majesty and Prince Philip? This is principally a ceremony for ex-servicemen and both diplomats and politicians, who usually have front seats, will have many opportunities both to see and meet the royal couple at the many other functions in Canberra (o which they will be invited. 
Will the Minister representing the Treasurer make representations to his colleague to secure in the forthcoming Budget a substantial increase in the Federal surf life saving subsidy for 1970? No doubt the Minister is aware that the inflationary spiral has brought about a large increase in cost for every item of surf life saving equipment. I also ask: Will the Commonwealth make arrangements with life insurance companies, government or private, for our surf life savers, those unpaid heroes of our Australian beaches, to have extended to them insurance protection similar to that which now covers bush fire fighters? 
Is the Leader of the Government able to advise the Senate what plans, besides increasing interest rates, the Government proposes to adopt to curb the present inflation which the Treasurer states threatens the well being of all Australians? Is it true that increased Federal Government expenditure is regarded as a major factor causing this inflation? If so, what plans does the Government propose to adopt to overcome these grave problems? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Works or the Minister for Civil Aviation, whoever is the appropriate Minister. Whilst complimenting both Ministers on the overall appearance of the new overseas terminal at Mascot, 1 ask whether it is true that the main transformer for the ventilation and air conditioning of the new airport terminal blew up in the past few weeks. Is it true that no transformer was available from any other government department and that a new transformer had to be borrowed from Imperial Chemical Industries of Australia and New Zealand Ltd? Is it not a grave indictment of the design of the system for such an important undertaking when one single unit only is installed instead of a dual system? Can the Minister explain how the system will be maintained when repairs and maintenance are being carried out in the future? 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry advise whether it is true that his colleague is now to visit Japan to discuss our wool trade problems? Is it true that over the past weeks both the Minister for Primary Industry and the Prime Minister have discussed our position with the Japanese? Have these talks failed, or is there any truth in the strongly rumoured reports in the industry that this visit is due to the fact that the Minister for Primary Industry and to some extent the Prime Minister failed in their mission and, in effect, had the wool pulled over their eyes by the Japanese? 
 M y  question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for External Affairs. Whilst recognising Australia's great need for peace in South East Asia, i ask the Minister what role, if any, the Australian Government is playing in the United Nations and in other places to try to bring about peace and understanding in the Middle East. Of course, as the Minister knows, . Australia played an important part in the formation of Israel. 1 further ask: Will the Government use every endeavour, through every channel possible, to bring all the nations involved in the Middle East dispute to the sams peace table in order to bring about a cessation of hostilities in this troubled part of the world, because these hostilities are a further threat to world peace? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science the following question without notice on 17th March 1970: 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science a question. Will he seek, through the Minister for Education and Science, to iron out a problem that has arisen between the State of New South Wales and the Commonwealth concerning secondary teachers' scholarship tuition? Will the Minister ascertain whether it is true that the Australian National University in Canberra would willingly accept students living in nearby areas, such as Young, Yass, Cootamundra and Temora and adjoining areas, thereby saving young people from travelling hundreds of miles to Sydney? On behalf of the young men and women involved, will the Minister try to adjust the petty difference that has arisen between the respective Education Departments and overcome this problem, which affects a number of young Australians and their families? 
Does the Minister representing the Minister for External Affairs recall my question yesterday in which I called upon the Australian Government to take immediate steps through every available channel to bring to the peace table the warring factions of the Middle East? In view of the renewed turmoil and further threat of hostilities in this area, can the Minister say whether he has any advice, as he promised to secure yesterday, as to what action the Australian Government has taken and, in turn, what plans the Government has in mind to attempt, in co-operation with other countries, to bring to an end this conflict which could affect world peace? 
Thank you. 
Yes, that is right,  Mr President. 
I have not done that,  Mr President.  1 am not party to the 'hear, hears' but if you look at Hansard you will find that day by day, although I rose early for the call, I was probably the last person called. My purpose in rising is to ask the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service whether, in view of the demand of all wage and salary workers for increased wages, which has resulted in numerous industrial stoppages, the Commonwealth Government will confer with State governments to bring about price control in respect of all commodities. The workers believe that the absence of price control is responsible for the present inflation that is affecting our whole economy and making it impossible for the ordinary working family to live on present wages and salaries. 
Is the Leader of the Government in the Senate aware that the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions,  Mr Hawke,  has written  to the Prime Minister seeking 4 weeks annual leave for Commonwealth public servants? In view of the importance and urgency of this matter to so many Commonwealth public servants can the Minister secure information on it? How long will the Government take to make a decision? 
I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate: Is there any truth in the statement reported in today's news that an executive of an Australian oil company has claimed that if  oil refineries were stopped from exporting millions of gallons of petrol from Australia to avoid taxation in this country, motorists would pay less for petrol? In view of that reported statement, will the Government investigate this matter of taxation evasion and the possibility of providing lower priced petrol to Australian motorists? 
 I rise to give further information on a matter I mentioned this morning in relation to the price of petrol and taxes which oil companies have to pay. This matter came to my notice in a radio broadcast that I heard this morning and I thought that it was of such importance that I brought it to the attention of the Senate. I certainly was aware of the difficulty of the 
Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Anderson)  when 1 asked him the question this morning because I realised that he might not have any information on it. I have since tried to apprise him of certain material that I have received. Recognising how questions can be fobbed off and feeling that, this is a serious matter, I sought information from the radio station concerned and secured the text of the story that was broadcast in the 6.45 a.m. bulletin this morning and on a number of occasions later. I think that I heard it on the 7.45 a.m. broadcast. The text of the story which is headed 'Petrol Prices' is as follows: 
A petrol company executive said yesterday that Australians would pay less for petrol- if the Commonwealth Government stopped refineries exporting petrol from Australia to beat taxation costs. 
The  Chairman  of XL Petroleum Pty Ltd,  Mr Sykes,  said that overseas owned refineries exported more than 60 million gallons of petrol in the last financial year at an average price of 10.7c a gallon. This compared with the selling price of super grade petrol in Melbourne of 43.4c  a  gallon. 

 Mr Sykes said that in the same period the refineries had imported 74 million gallons. He said that Australians were bearing the cost of millions of gallons of petrol being moved around the world. He said that Australia's foreign exchange position would be improved by stopping oil companies evading tax. 
I felt that that was a most important statement. I am not vouching for its authenticity but I have asked the Government to look at the matter. I am aware that at present there is an application before the South Australian Prices Commissioner from the oil companies for a rise of at least 2c a gallon in the price of petrol. J believe that the South Australian Prices Commissioner has been sitting on the application for some time and it is expected that a decision will not be given before the end of this month because of certain things which are likely to take place in the States and in the Australian Capital Territory. 
The point is that if the statements made by  Mr Sykes  are correct not only are the oil ompanies evading tax, which is important to every Australian, but as well we could sell petrol in Australia at a much lower price than the present price. Unless there is some investigation over the next 2 weeks it is obvious that petrol prices will be increased, not reduced. I apologise for raising this matter at this late hour, but it is so important for the wellbeing not only of motorists but also of all Australians if a charge of evasion of tax can be substantiated. This is a matter which affects every Australian and it should be ventilated. The Minister should be given all the information and advice that is available. I have already given him the information that I have and I hope that this matter will be investigated before the inquiry into the application for an increase in petrol prices gels under way before the Prices Commissioner in South Australia. 
Does the Leader of the Government in the Senate recall a question about petrol prices 1 asked him on 21st May - almost 2 weeks ago - and further information I gave to him that night during the debate on the adjournment of the Senate, including a reference to a statement on petrol prices and possible tax evasion by petrol companies which are exporting millions of gallons of petrol from Australia? In view of the almost completed inquiry into petrol prices by the Prices Commissioner of South Australia, which is expected quickly to determine the prices of petrol throughout the Commonwealth, and because of the urgency of this matter. 1 ask the Minister: What action has the Government taken to investigate the serious statements made by the  Chairman  of XL Petroleum Pty Ltd? That action was promised by the Leader of the Government on 21st May. 
My question is  directed to the Minister for Housing. I ask: Is it true that at a recent Housing Industry Association convention at Surfers Paradise the Minister expressed feelings of unhappiness about the prospect of a reduction this year in home building? In view of the criticism of the Commonwealth Government's action in increasing sharply the bond interest rate, causing the tightening of money for home building purposes, and in view of the fact that one Liberal Minister at the convention is reported to have said: It's a bit late for the Minister to be bemoaning the fact that the building rate has slowed and home buyers and builders are finding it increasingly difficult to get finance', I ask the Minister: What action does she intend to take to rectify this serious matter which is affecting home building? 
1 ask the 
Acting Minister for Immigration whether she is aware that Australia and Malta have signed an agreement designed to aid Maltese emigrating to Australia. Is she in a position to advise the Parliament what the agreement embraces? Has a reciprocal social services agreement with Malta, similar to that which operates with Britain and New Zealand, been signed? As the Minister knows, Malta is a British Commonwealth country. If she has not this information will she have inquiries made and advise the Senate as early as possible? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Health whether she is in a position to advise what action has been taken by the Government and the Commonwealth Department of Health to further Professor J. Bronstein's treatment for diabetics, which has been acclaimed in medical circles as a breakthrough and a better and safer treatment than insulin. As there are an estimated 250,000 diabetics in Australia will the Minister regard this investigation as being of great urgency? 
Yesterday I asked the Acting Minister for Immigration a question about an agreement signed by our Minister for Immigration, and by  Dr Tabone  on behalf of the Maltese Government. I believe the Minister has some further information concerning the matter. I ask her would she make the information available. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Postmaster-General. Will she request the Postmaster-General, on behalf of the postal clerks and telegraphists throughout Australia, to accept the principle  of  a 5-day working week, which has become accepted in so many industries and establishments throughout the nation, thereby doing something positive towards giving these employees justice? Will the Minister draw the Postmaster-General's attention to the fact that the policy of treating them as second class employees by denying them the rights and justices to which they are entitled will result in further discontent and disruption in post offices throughout the Commonwealth? 
M.y question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. J.n view of the announcement that high ranking politicians are being allotted thousands of shares in the controversial Comalco Ltd share issue. I ask the Minister, as I have done previously, whether he would now nol agree that parliamentarians who are elected and entrusted with the responsibility of looking after the affairs of the Australian people would command much greater respect and the confidence of those people if the whole of their income, including share holdings, were made available for public scrutiny - a practice which at present operates in many States throughout the United States of America and in Singapore under the Prime Minister,  Mr Lee.  Will the Minister take up this matter with the Treasurer in order to protect the good name and honesty of the vast majority of Parliamentarians throughout the Commonwealth? 

 - Mr Deputy President, my question is directed without notice to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Services. I ask her whether she had previously seen the article published in last Sunday's Sydney 'Telegraph', which I forwarded to her yesterday, with the heading, 'A Mother's Heartache' - a photo depicting a young boy, watched by his deserted mother, hunting for a warm jumper in a garbage bin. I ask the Minister: In view of the further statement to this picture, 'There is only one horror worse than the indignity this woman was suffering: the fact that there are thousands of others with the same problem', will she bring this matter as one of urgency to the attention of the Minister and request an immediate allocation of funds or any other assistance to the Smith Family, the St Vincent de Paul organisation and other organisations helping these unfortunates. Further, will she commence investigations and report to Parliament on the extent of poverty in Australia, which is believed to affect over 10% of our population. 
In regard to the issue of poverty raised by  Senator Fitzgerald,  let me comment that in any society where the standards of living are constantly rising it is only natural that the criteria of poverty rise accordingly. The matter, naturally, is one which the Government has under constant scrutiny, and is always ready to act upon accordingly. I might also add that all the other matters raised by the honourable senator are under investigation by the Government. 1 am informed by the Minister for Social Services that he will let me know the results of these investigations as they become available so that I can inform the honourable senator. We of course feel the greatest sympathy for deserted wives who not only have problems which they face in bringing up their families but have other obvious difficulties as well. 
The Australian Labor Party - which is always eager to support and encourage any benefit to assist those in need - supports the Bill for it does extend benefits which we will not oppose. But may 1 give some advice to the Minister and express some criticism on the Bill before I propose our amendment, which I believe should be supported by every honourable senator in this Parliament. This Bill provides for a $2 subsidy for every $1 subscribed from private or local government funds for capital expenditure on training institutions for handicapped children. We have, I am pleased to know, the Minister's assurance that the greatest flexibility will be exercised in the administration of the Act. Whilst we accept as important the urgent need for capital grant subsidies for schools and residential accommodation, I draw the Minister's attention to the staffing needs of these institutions, which are of even greater importance. Running cost subsidies should go hand in hand with capital subsidies. Organisations do not regard as their real problem the raising of capital expenditure for buildings to help the handicapped child. The tremendous problem is the recurring expenditure, how to pay the specialised staff - the physiotherapist, the speech therapist, the occupational therapist, the psychologist and the nursing staff at these homes and the staff who visit families who have children in need of care. There are also the social welfare workers who assist parents in the education of handicapped children. 
These are the pressing problems which cause very great concern for everyone associated with this work. No doubt many other matters will be mentioned, but we have the Ministers assurance that every aspect will be looked at. This, as he has said, is the first thing to do, not the only thing, with which we on this side concur entirely, in discussing the problem of the handicapped in Australia, that is, those who are physically and mentally handicapped, we must realise that we face a tremendous problem. No words of mine would do justice or pay proper tribute to those dedicated parents, teachers and church organisations and all the other people engaged in this work. My heart goes out to those unfortunates, and particularly to their families. It is not a case of one's heart ruling one's head; it is a case of decency and humanity. The Minister is right in this respect when he says: 'There is still so much to be done'. The Minister estimates that there are some 50,000 handicapped children in Australia. This is only an estimate, for the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  in replying to a question in the House of Representatives in May of this year advised that the number of handicapped children in Australia is not known. There are no complete statistics in any State or in the Commonwealth of the mentally or physically handicapped, each government is doing something, but difficulty in securing full information is being experienced in every State. All are eager for Commonwealth involvement. This is a community undertaking, and States have no fear of an impersonal bureauracy in Canberra. This is a matter where information is not known, and from our point of view it is one of the most serious questions concerning the people of Australia at present. In the latest figures of the World Health Organisation, Australia has an estimated 300,000 mentally retarded children. These children are divided into 3 categories - mildly, modestly and severely retarded. lt is further estimated that every 78 minutes a child is born in this country which falls within one of these categories. 
These are challenging figures. That is why we have moved our amendment for a full and complete inquiry. This is an urgent matter. The sooner help is given, the greater the chance of making those afflicted useful members of society. The longer we delay investigation, the less chance there will be of helping those in need. I personally have witnessed great searches that have taken pine. for a little one lost. We have searched dale and glen looking for a person who is lost. This is a situation of a similar character. How many little ones will continue lost unless we thoroughly and urgently investigate all aspects of this great problem? [ therefore move, as an amendment to the Bill: 
That at the end of the motion there be added: "', but the Senate is of the opinion that a Committee of the Senate should inquire into and report upon ali. aspects associated wilh the provision of assistance to handicapped children". 
Should this amendment be carried by the Senate, T will give notice that a select committee of the .Senate be appointed to inquire into and report upon the problems of the mentally and physically handicapped persons in Australia and to make such recommendations as it may think fit. The committee shall consist of senators to be appointed by a subsequent resolution. I regret that the forms and procedures of the House will not allow me to do this immediately, because I felt it was a most important matter - something to which we should have proceeded immediately. 
Much information could be made available to a Senate committee by governments, both Federal and State, for 1 believe the Minister has agreed to the setting up of an interdepartmental committee consisting of the Department of Social Services, the Department of Health and the Department of Labor and National Service, to survey this whole field. Further, all this information and much more could be made available to a Senate committee. We have seen statements forwarded through various channels - from the Australian Council of Mentally Retarded and from Victorian and New South Wales teachers. As a matter of fact I have a document, given to me by  Senator Bishop,  which deals with South 
Australia's problems. There are many documents of this nature available and I know they are readily accessible. 
In moving this amendment I sincerely believe that no matter ever introduced into the national Parliament is more necessary than the proposal entrusted to me today. I do not believe there is one member in this place or one person in the whole of Australia who is not concerned with the problems of mental retardation or the physically handicapped child or adult. It has often been said, so correctly, There but for the grace of God go I.' I know it affects every person, who could rightly think 'There but for the grace of God goes one of our children.' There is not a parent, mother or father to be - yes, grandparents - whose first thought does not centre on the newborn baby's health, physical and mental; and so it will be until the end of time. Hence this resolution to try to do something to deal with this very important problem immediately. Let us set up this committee as early as possible so that this matter can be dealt with without delay. This is not a Party political issue but I honestly say the help we are requesting today echoes all the humanitarian principles upon which our Party is based. 
This committee of inquiry which we request should report upon every incidence, status and condition of handicapped persons, including children disadvantaged because of physical or mental disability, chronic illness, or injury; and upon the adequacy of existing Commonwealth and State social welfare legislation. It should recommend such legislation and administrative measures by the Commonwealth as the inquiry sees fit. I may be questioned in respect of this amendment. Senators realise that this is one of the forms of the House that allows these matters to be dealt with. It is urgent, because Parliament rises within days; it is urgent because the Government at this time is preparing its budget estimates, and preparing plans for the next 12 months. 
We believe that a special select committee of the Senate could best investigate this matter, therefore this has my full support and approval, for I have outlined our intention when this statement is adopted by the Senate. The report of the Senate Select 
Committee on Medical and Hospital Costs, termed the Wedgwood Committee, has gone into details on the matter of physically and mentally handicapped people in chapter 10. Whilst it does not go all the way with our recommendations, the differences would be very slight. The Wedgwood Committee report on Medical and Hospital Costs recommends that the Commonwealth should conduct a thorough general inquiry into the problems associated with the special character of the treatment of the mentally handicapped of all ages for the purposes of establishing the most satisfactory and practical form of assistance. The report continues in paragraph 255: 
The Committee makes no specific recommendation as to the most appropriate form of assistance, as insufficient investigation appears to have been conducted into the problems, and the Committee itself could not undertake such a task. 
I repeat that there has been insufficient investigation conducted into this problem, of the mentally handicapped. That is the great tragedy of this matter with which we are faced at the moment. I am quite certain that the amendment we propose will overcome the great problems we are faced with. 
I do not for one moment want to detract from the work of the States, limited as they may be, or from the tremendous tasks of the voluntary organisations - there are private as well as religious organisations carrying on this work - and parents connected with this work throughout Australia. It may be argued that this, as a health matter, is therefore one for the States. The New South Wales Minister for Health only recently appealed for joint Commonwealth and State responsibility in health matters. May I, with all the sincerity within me, plead to the Government to accept more of this responsibility? The problem before us is of great concern to every Australian. I ask: Is the Government not concerned with the Hong Kong flu vaccine? Of course it is. Let us not forget that tuberculosis was once a monopoly of the States until taken over by the Commonwealth. I am not desirious of taking any power from the States. They would welcome this help and co-operation, as so recently announced by the New South Wales Minister for Health, and I am certain that goes for every 
Minister of Health throughout the Commonwealth. We will not by any means be cutting across any form of assistance in this way. I hope Government spokesmen will not try to claim that the Commonwealth has not the power to do as the motion requests. Let us not be held up to ridicule. Professor Geoffrey Sawer, an acknowledged constitutional authority, said the problem could easily be overcome by the Commonwealth's making a grant for this purpose, it being the chief moneyraising agent in Australia. But surely to heaven, if we can appropriate motley for roads, as we can do. it is important and more urgently necessary that we should appropriate money for this cause. ] feel thai the field of mental and physical handicapped is one of the great problems and one of the issues which we are concerned with here today. I am sure that none of us can feel happy that we have done enough to help. 
On checking records I find that it was in 1954 that I arranged an interview with the Prime Minister of the day,  Sir Robert  Menzies. The present Leader of the Government in the Senate,  Senator Anderson,  joined me in this interview. I might take the liberty of reading a report of newspaper articles which appeared at the time and which made reference to our joint venture and our joint deputation. Talking of the deputation, it said: 
They comprised a deputation of two to Prime Minister Menzies, whom they found sympathetic once he had been informed on this almost unknown area of Australian tragedy. They did nol want the dynamic provided by the Subnormal Children's Welfare Association replaced with the impersonality of ihe State. They wanted merely: An officer of the Commonwealth Education Department directed to investigate the best overseas methods of conveying some form of instruction to subnormal children; research through the Health Department into the causes of subnormal births; and a grant of 1,000 a year to enable the association to function Federally and a Commonwealth subsidy for capital expenditure on a pound-for-pound basis to erect centres and schools for the children to the limit of 10,000 in any one year. If Menzies should grant their request it will be a trifling thing measured against die magnitude of the decisions he has to make and the funds he has to administer on behalf of the taxpayer and the Commonwealth. It will probably go unnoticed in the welter of Government decisions that are poured out. But. if favourable, it could possibly, by strengthening the association's capacity to care for subnormal children, bring relief from fear and worry to a handful of families scattered throughout Australia. For Fitzgerald and Anderson it probably will not mean a vote. But to the onlooker it will provide another example of how, under the parliamentary system, any cause, however small and seemingly unimportant, finds champions and in such things lie the justification for the system. 
I suggest that the deputation we had to the Prime Minister of the day did not go in vain. We spoke also at that time of the unfortunate asthmatic sufferers and I recall that in May 1962  Mr Menzies,  the Prime Minister, amended the Public Service Act. I am advised by officers of that Department that today some 8,000 people who are affected by forms of asthma are now members of the Public Service. May I say this was made possible to the result of the Boyer report, which gave consideration to these people who were in need and who were to some degree, physically handicapped in that way. 
So, whilst at that period it did not appear that we had achieved a great deal from our personal interview with ihe Prime Minister, we were given assurances that sympathetic work would be carried out and I am certain that a lot of the ground work we did on that occasion bore fruit. Ten years later it was highlighted by the Benn case in Western Australia. 1 initiated the discussion of a matter of urgent public importance, namely, the need for a national inquiry into the problems of the mentally retarded children of Australia. May I add that the present Leader of the Government in the Senate,  Senator Anderson,  then a New South Wales State member, himself moved an adjournment motion in the New South Wales Parliament back in 1952, and as a result teachers were ultimately provided for retarded children in schools within his area. Therefore, this question was raised from time to time, and whilst people may not have appeared to make great progress in the matter at that time, results have been achieved. 
Sitting suspended from  I.  to 2 p.m. 
Prior to the suspension of the sitting  I  was relating my own interest over the years in the problems of the mentally and physically handicapped. I pointed out that in 1954, when a member of the House of Representatives, I organised a deputation with  Senator Anderson  to see the Prime Minister of the day, who was then  Mr Robert  Menzies. Also, in 1964 a motion was moved by myself for adjournment of the Senate to discuss the need for a national inquiry into the problem of mentally retarded children in Australia. In 1 969, as you,  Mr Deputy President,  will recall, my notice of motion that the Senate considers there should be an inquiry into and report upon the problems of mentally and physically handicapped persons in Australia lapsed when the Parliament was prorogued for the election. In 1970 the motion was again placed on the business paper of the Senate. 
During the luncheon adjournment 1 was asked whether I had any personal reasons for being interested in this matter; in effect, whether I had a physically or mentally handicapped child. Thank God, I have not, though like all grandparents I am conscious of what can happen in these circumstances and know that many senators are just as much concerned about this problem as I. Let me here express concern for parents who have known the tragedy of a handicapped child and I believe that proper scientific treatment, which should be available, may be able to bring some benefits to these people I mentioned also that  Senator Anderson,  when a member of the New South Wales Parliament back in 1952, moved a motion for adjournment of the Legislative Assembly to debate these problems, and that by so doing he was largely responsible for the provision of teachers for retarded children in New South Wales, and particularly in the area that he represented. 
Honourable senators will recall that in 1964 in this chamber I moved a motion for adjournment of the Senate to discuss a definite matter of public . importance, namely, 'the need for a national inquiry into the problems of mentally retarded children in Australia', and in the debate on that motion senators on both sides of the house expressed their strong opinions on these issues. 
Since then, as I have mentioned, following the Boyer Committee report and amendments to public service regulations as a result of which some thousands of public servants have been given employment, some legislation has been brought down to deal with these problems. I give as examples the States Grants Mental Health Institution Bill 1964, which is partially relevant, and the Sheltered Employment (Assistance) Act 1967. There are also several other pieces of legislation and also the Bill before us. 
In my attempts to obtain information in this matter 1 went to the Commonwealth Health Department and the Department of Health in New South Wales and in other States, and I am pleased to report that this was readily made available to me. I thank those departments, and I thank also the Swedish Ambassador,  Mr Petersen,  for his very valuable information and the policy adopted in his country in the tackling of this problem. The major point I make is that information is readily available from governments throughout the world to help this government. The world today is undergoing great scientific changes and Australia cannot be left behind. However, I remind the Senate that the Commonwealth Government is the only body that can harness this information. Therefore, 1 appeal to the Government to accept this amendment for the setting up of a Senate inquiry. It is not easy to ascertain information concerning affected people or to secure advice from sufferers such as the blind, deaf and dumb people, cerebral palsy cases, mentally and physically handicapped persons, spastics and quadriplegics. The Department of Social Services and the Commonwealth Bureau of Census and Statistics have only a few figures, and therefore only thorough inquiry and investigation will reveal what help is required. Recently, as honourable senators know, I was able to secure the film 'The Foal', which was shown in the Senate club room. It was one of the Marcus Welby, M.D., series and portrayed an autistic child and the terrifying implications of this complaint. Autistic children pose a grave problem today. This is a comparatively new field. It is estimated that there are 1,500 autistic children in Australia. These figures are based on comparable figures obtained from England and the United States of America. I might add that there arc twice as many autistic children as blind children, and more autistic children than deaf children. Its cause is unknown. For the benefit of some senators who on different occasions have asked what an autistic child is, an autistic child is a child who lives in a world apart, completely divorced from his social, physical and emotional environment. He is unable to use language as a meaningful. form of social communication. It is becoming increasingly evident that the earlier the autistic child can be diagnosed and helped, the better the chance will be of returning him to society. So it is with all these complaints. If we can get these children early enough, there is hope that something can possibly be done for them. 
As honourable senators will appreciate, I sought advice regarding the people affected in the various categories from the Commonwealth Bureau of Census and Statistics. A senior officer advised that this information was limited, no comprehensive figures being available, but he believed the Commonwealth Department of Health had made a study, though again this material was also limited. Again. I say that the need for a national inquiry is urgent. The committee should examine the needs of mentally retarded people in the fields of education, health, research, institutions, workshops, guidance clinics and staff training. It will be less costly for the Government to act quickly in these days of great medical advancement than it would be to stand idly by and neglect to do anything when there is so much to be done. 
The United States of America has made much progress in this field. The late American  President,  John F. Kennedy, who was unfortunately assassinated in 1963, stressed in an address to the Congress on this subject that mental illness disables ten times as many people as diabetes, twenty times as many people as tuberculosis, twenty times as many people as muscular distrophy, and six hundred times as many people as infantile paralysis. America spends $20m on the problems of mental retardation. I believe that had the late  president  lived, America would have been spending a great deal more on this problem.  President  Kennedy said that the care of mental retardation, and research into the causes and cure in America, had been too long neglected. This disability strikes people in all walks of life, whether they have money or not. The fact that almost 3% of the population is affected cannot be passed over lightly. For those afflicted and their loved ones the problems are intense. 
In the case of the physically handicapped, despite progress a great deal more investigation is urgently needed into all aspects of the help necessary for sheltered workshops and also for the people who live in hostels. 
Many of these establishments cannot afford the financial losses that they are sustaining. There is a need for additional payment of social services, and a further lifting of the means test would be a great help. Additional assistance is needed to meet cost of physiotherapy, speech therapy and occupational therapy. Desperate help is needed in the daily running costs of day these unfortunates in these centres have to centres. We must remember that many of be totally fed. They have to be minded, disciplined, indeed toiletted, and if possible, educated. I repeat that desperate help is needed to meet the daily running costs of these centres. I want honourable senators to remember that the healthy handicapped persons do not qualify for admission to convalescent homes. Quadriplegics, people who have lost use of limbs, present the greatest needs. Many can be trained. Many require day and night service 24 hours a day. [ know that this presents a tragic picture, but it must bc faced by society, for we are dealing with human beings: they are people, not things. We must all be made conscious of our responsibilities, for any one of us or our own loved ones could be the next affected. 
Leading doctors have pointed out to mc the urgent need for correct and immediate attention in accident cases. Might I just add in conclusion that this is a humane problem, not a party-political problem, lt may be too late to help many of those who are deeply afflicted and for whom nothing much has yet been done, but it not too late to get to the root of this great problem, which is already affecting and will continue to affect trie lives of so many people in the years to come. We want an inquiry into this matter, not because we feel that this Government or any other government has been deficient in its duty towards the mentally and physically iti but because we feel that such an inquiry could yield results which could help not only in the treatment of those who are ill but, much more importantly, in the prevention of a great deal of such illness in the community. It is rather startling when we realise that a great number of people in Australia are affected in this way. I appeal to the Government to institute this inquiry, for I assure it that a Labor government is pledged to do this. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- ls the amendment seconded? 
I ask the 
Minister representing the Treasurer a question. Will he request the Treasurer, in the forthcoming Budget, to heed the appeal of the Manufacturers Association of Australia for a reduction from the 25% luxury sales tax now imposed on cosmetics, including baby powder, ladies' lace powder, bab cream and other cosmetic items, to the general rate of 15%. I draw the attention of the Minister - I know this has been done previously - to the justice of this request and point out that dog powder and similar animal requisites are tax free. Does the Minister not agree that the women of Australia deserve a better deal and should be given a reduction in sales tax on these important items? 
If I may be permitted to digress slightly from the question put to mc in my capacity as Minister representing the Treasurer. I should like to thank  Senator Murphy  and honourable senators from both sides of the chamber who have expressed to me their appreciation of the honour that has been graciously conferred upon me by  Her  Majesty the Queen. I feel very proud for myself, my wife and my family, but also very humble because 1 recognise that what I have done and what I do is what every other citizen who aspires to public life attempts to do, that is. to serve his community. 1 hope to be able to serve my community and the people of Australia for a long lime to come. 
Rumours contain some funny stories, but I take the point expressed by the honourable senator. In response to the question from  Senator Fitzgerald,  as the honourable senator knows the Government gives consideration to various matters prior to the Budget session. The representations made by the honourable senator in relation to sales tax are among the questions very carefully examined at the time of preparation of each Budget when the Government pays particular attention to sales tax on certain items. All that I can hope to do and what I shall certainly do is to direct the honourable senator's request to the Treasurer so that he may have regard, when framing the Budget, to the cosmetic lines mentioned by the honourable senator 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Has the  President  of the A.C.T.U. written to the Prime Minister seeking the grant of 4 weeks annual leaveto white collar workers in the Commonwealth Public Service. 
In view of the importance and urgency of this matterto so many Public Servants, when will the Government give a decision. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe Prime Minister has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The  President  of the A.C.T.U. together with the  President  of the Australian Council of Salaried and Professional Associations andthe  President  of the Council of Commonwealth Public Service Organisations has sent me a telegram requesting an additional week's annual leave for Commonwealth public servants and employees. 
A reply has been sent that the Government continues to be of the view that having rega rd to existing relevant circumstances it would be inappropriate to grant an extra weeks leavetothe Commonwealth Public Service at this time. 
I give notice that tomorrow I will move: 
Thai a select committee of the Senate  be  appointed lo inquire into and report upon all aspects associated with the provision of assistance to mentally and physically handicapped persons; 
that the select committee consist of eight senators, four to be appointed by the Leader of the Government in the Senate, three to be appointed by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate and one to be appointed by the Leader of the Australian Democratic Labor Party, such appointments to be made as soon as practicable; 
that the committee elect as  chairman  one of the members appointed by the Leader of the Government in the Senate; that the  chairman  of the committee may, from time to time, appoint another member of the committee to be the deputy-chairma'n of the committee, and that the member so appointed act as  chairman  of the committee at any time when the  chairman  is not present at a meeting of the committee; that in the event of an equality of voting the  chairman,  or the deputy-chairman when acting as  chairman,  have a casting vote; 
that the presence of three members of the committee shall be necessary to constitute a meeting of the committee for the exercise of its powers; 
that the select committee have power to sit during any adjournment or recess of the Parliament and notwithstanding any prorogation; 
that the select committee have power to send for persons, papers and records, to move from place to place, to sit in open court or in private, and to have leave to report from time to time its proceedings and the evidence taken and such interim recommendations as it may deem fit; 
that the Senate authorise the publication of all documents which may be laid before the select committee and of all evidence which may be given before it except such particular documents or evidence as the committee determines should1 not be published; 
that the committee report to the Senate as soon as possible; and 
that the foregoing provisions of this resolution, so far as they are inconsistent with the Standing Orders, have effect notwithstanding anything contained in the Standing Orders. 
 I am pleased that  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson has raised this matter to enable us to pay tribute to our former colleague, the late  Senator Donald  Grant. Donald Grant's career in the Labor movement was unparalleled. 1 want to pay my personal tribute to him because, as one who has conducted many election campaigns on behalf of Labor candidates in various areas of New South Wales, I always appreciated his co-operation and the excellent and powerful speeches that he made in every Federal, State or municipal election campaign in which he was engaged. As has been said: he was actively engaged in the anti-conscription campaign in 1916. As a man of high principle, a pacifist, he was prepared to suffer for his principles. As  Senator Murphy  pointed out, he was gaoled for 1 5 years for the utterance of 1 5 words. He served approximately 4 years and was exonerated by a royal commission headed by  Mr Justice  Ewing. 
Yes, as  Senator O'Byrne  points out, he was from Tasmania. In 1916, the Labor movement opposed conscription. In that period, the movement was supported by John Curtin and Ben Chifley, both of whom who later became Prime Minister. At that time Archbishop Mannix played an important role in the opposition that the Labor movement offered to conscription in World War I. Donald Grant was one of the greatest orators the Labor movement has produced. He was accepted as the greatest orator at addressing large groups. Crowds of over 10,000 were addressed by him in the Sydney Domain and at other places during those stormy periods. Amplifiers and like technical equipment were not known in those days. 
In World War U. when Fascism and Nazism threatened the world and when Australia was faced with the threat of invasion, Donald Grant stood steadfast with John Curtin and the Labor Government in those dark days, despite the many disputes within the Party on the militia issue and other problems that the Government had to face. Our late esteemed colleague was an alderman of the Sydney City Council for 131 years. He was a member of the Legislative Council of New South Wales for 10 years. The late  Senator Grant  was a member of this Senate for 16 years. As was pointed out by other speakers, he represented Australia at various conferences. He was an Australian representative at the Paris Peace Conference of 1946. He was a member of the Australian delegation at the Montreal International Labor Conference. He was at the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association Conference at Nairobi in 1954. At all times his contributions were of the highest order. They are spoken of today by the delegates who attended the conferences. I endorse the sentiments expressd by honourable senators who have spoken, and particularly those of the Labor movement, for we mourn the death of this great Labor fighter. My deepest sympathy is extended to his dear wife and relatives in their very sad bereavement. 
 Will the Minister representing the Treasurer request the Treasurer to give effect, when compiling the 1970-71 Budget, to Government promises to restore adequate Commonwealth aid road grants to rural and semirural areas? I draw the Ministers attention to the Mitchell electorate, which is undergoing some of the most dramatic development in New South Wales but now finds that funds allocated to it. instead of increasing, are decreasing. This is a matter of urgency which greatly concerns the Blacktown Municipal Council and the people of the area. 1 therefore ask the Minister to bring this matter to the Treasurer's attention with the least possible delay. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI am sure the honourable senator is aware - if he is not. 1 will refresh his memory - of the existence of the Commonwealth Aid Roads Act. In recent times we passed a measure to give to the States substantial and significant increases in road finance. I therefore feel that the type of question posed by the honourable senator concerns nol so much the Commonwealth Government as the New South Wales Government, in the first instance, and then no doubt the local government authority. However, so that a full examination of the honourable senator's question can be conducted I will take it on notice. While I am on my feet 1 would like to be permitted to say that I hope we can shortly bring question time to a close because of the amount of business we must get through today with, I hope, a reasonable degree of competence. 
I ask the 
Minister for Civil Aviation: Is there any truth in the articles in the Sydney Press stating that civil aviation authorities have accused Service chiefs of meddling in the choice of a site for a new Sydney international airport. Is this the reason for the lack of information on the proposed second airport for Sydney? If not, when will the Minister be in a position to make a statement on this important matter? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Has the Australian Government any proposal before it or any intention to change Australia's immigration laws by legislation or regulation because of pressure from Japanese companies who, it is claimed, speak of the possibility of greater mineral purchases from Australia if we relax our immigration laws and allow a greater number of Japanese into Australia? 
I know of no proposal to relax our immigration laws. Clearly the honourable senator is asking a question on policy. I offer my own contribution: I know of no such proposals. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Works. Is it true that a contract for the extension of the runway in Botany Bay at the Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport has been let to Thiess Bros Pty Ltd? Is there a rise and fall clause as to labour costs, as is usually inserted in contracts between the Department of Works and the contractor - in this case, Thiess Bros Pty Ltd? I further ask: If a wage increase is awarded by the courts, will the contract be adjusted to ensure that the men working on the project will secure wage justice, thereby guaranteeing continuity of employment and the building of the runway free of the worry that proper adjustments of wages will not be made by the employers? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior or the Minister for Works, whichever is the appropriate one. Can the Minister advise whether the memorial fountain originally designed and dedicated to perpetuate the honoured memory of the late J. B. Chifley, in the square bearing his name and fronting the Commonwealth Offices in Sydney, is to be renamed Phillip? If this is a State concern, was the Federal Government consulted on or advised of the change? Will the Minister, on behalf of the people of New South Wales, take the matter up with the appropriate authority and thereby correct this wrong to the memory of a great Australian? 
Is the Leader of the Government in the Senate aware that at a ladies Liberal Party meeting this week Justice Roma Mitchell, Australia's only female judge and a most distinguished feminist, warned that because of the continual increase in the cost of living all women in the very near future would have to .work to provide a second income? Might I say that this certainly is a grim picture for the future. Will the Government institute an investigation into this matter in order to stop this vicious increase in prices and, if need be, introduce price control on essential everyday commodities thereby trying to give some protection to parents with young families where the wife is unable to take an extra job, to pensioners and to those on fixed incomes? 
I shall deal firstly with that part of the question which referred to a purported remark by a judge who was obviously a guest  speaker  at a Liberal Party branch meeting or women's rally. It should be clearly understood that when a judge speaks at a meeting such as that, he or she speaks as a guest  speaker  and in a completely detached way. The comment which has been referred to by the honourable senator could have been made at a Labor Party rally. I would not like honourable senators to think that- 
I do not agree. The honourable senator should not try to tie the judge to a contribution she made at a political party rally. Quite obviously, as a guest  speaker  she could have been speaking in a completely detached way. As to the second part of the honourable senator's question, 1 point out that what the States do in relation to price control is a matter within the constitutional responsibility of the States. Unless the States exercise their prerogative to implement price control, that is outside the province of the Commonwealth. The third thing I say to the honourable senator is that he is drawing a very long bow when he tries to tie to the subject matter of his question something that was said by a guest  speaker  at a political function. 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for External Affairs read the caustic comment by the Auditor-General and a leading article in the Sydney Press on the huge expenditure of $57,000 for renovations, $77,000 for fittings and furniture, and over $9,000 for lawyers' fees in respect of a flat for a government official in New York? The amount paid is now $135,000, and it is still rising. I ask the same question that the leading article in the Press asked: How can the Government justify such expenditure when it. claims that it can afford only 50c a week for our pensioners, the majority of whom are living in poverty? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONf did see the leading article and the reference to expenditure on, I take it, the residence of the Consul in New York. The details of the expenditure would have to be related to the work which was actually done. As regards the second part of his question, the honourable senator has to understand that if we are to have Australian representatives overseas, whether they are in New York, Moscow or anywhere else, we have to provide establishments which are consistent with the status of the particular offices. The greatest injury that could be done to Australia's image- 
What about these unfortunate people? 
The honourable senator is attempting to make a political issue out of something that has not any relation to politics at all. The point I was making, and I shall repeat it, is that if we are to have Australian representatives overseas, if we believe that Australia, as a primary producing and exporting country, needs to have representatives overseas, the greatest damage that we can do to Australia is to have these representatives housed in establishments which are below the dignity and status of their offices and which are pathetic when compared with the establishments of representatives of other countries. In the very highly competitive world in which we live, no greater damage can be done to Australia's future, or to ite development and progress, than by providing such unworthy establishments. 
J present from 1,480 residents of Sydney the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That they are gravely concerned at what they consider to be the adverse effect on moral standards in the Australian community of the increasing portrayal and description of obscenity, sexual licence, promiscuity and violence in films, books, magazines, plays and, ro a lesser extent, television and radio programmes. 
That their concern arises partly from the fact that historians such as J. D. Unwin and Arnold Toynbee have shown that nearly ail nations which have perished have done so because of internal moral decay; and partly because obscenity and indecency are contrary to the teachings of Christianity which is the acknowledged religion of more than 80 per cent of Australians, besides being 'part and parcel of the law of the land' (Quick and Garran in 'Commentaries on the Australian Constitution', Page 951); and 
That, in accordance with the findings of the Australian gallup poll, published in the Melbourne Herald', 14th November 1969, the majority of Australian citizens want censorship either maintained or increased. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should seek to ensure that Commonwealth legislation bearing on censorship of films, literature and radio and television programmes is so framed and so administered as to preserve sound moral standards in the community. 
And your Petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Can the Leader of the Government in the Senate advise whether there is to be a further change in Government rural policy following the Prime Minister's plea at the recent Tenth Asian Regional Conference of the Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations, in which he called upon Australians to help close the world food gap between the hungry and the satisfied? Does this mean that Australia will be encouraged to increase production and to send more food, including wheat, to help solve the world food problem? Also, will the Government plan to reduce the wheat acreage planted by Australian farmers now be amended or scrapped? 

 Senator Sh KENNETH ANDERSONThe honourable senator poses 2 questions which, on the face of them and the way he presents them, would suggest that 2 things are moving in opposite directions.  I  do not think that is so. Everybody knows of the problem in the wheat industry. It is a world problem and is related to the international wheat agreement. That is a separate matter. As to a change of our rural policy in relation to what we do for other countries - notably the less developed countries - I merely repeat what I said here a few days ago: In terms of our capacity, our population and our heritage, Australia is probably one of the most significant countries in the world in giving help to less developed countries. We have special tariff provisions to help them. All in all, our aid to other countries is significant. Having regard to our population, our history and our economic strength, we in Australia do a very significant job. I do not believe that in what the Prime Minister said, which was commendable, there is any suggestion or implication of any change in our rural policy. Maybe a question of emphasis comes into it, but I would not suggest that it implies any basic change in our rural policy. 

That at the end of the motion there be added: ", but the Senate is of the opinion that a Committee of the Senate should inquire into and report upon all aspects associated with the provision of assistance to handicapped children". 
That amendment was subsequently agreed to by 28 votes to 23 votes. I went on to say after moving that amendment that if the legislation was carried by the Senate I would take certain steps so as to give effect to the terms of my amendment. 
There are 2 proposals on this subject on the Notice Paper under the heading of General Business. They are items 4 and 6. Although I am not sure that these proposals will overcome the concern which I and other honourable senators share with many thousands of people throughout the length and breadth of Australia who are eager to see something done for these handicapped people, it is true to say that standing committees have been set up and it is also true to say that the Labor Party has proposed certain references and that every one of those proposals has been rejected. It is my personal opinion that this very grave problem is one which can properly be referred to a standing committee of the Senate. I am asking that my amendment, which is in terms similar to an amendment of mine which was carried on 1 1th June last by 28 votes to 23 votes, will be endorsed by the Senate today, so that this will be the first matter referred to the Standing Committee on Health and Welfare, one of the committees which have been talked about so glibly and so graciously, as a matter of fact, over a long period of time. I think that every honourable senator will support my proposal for an investigation of this most grave human problem. We must undertake the task of assisting those affected, their families and the many organisations which are engaged in the work of helping the afflicted, be they adults or children. I therefore hope that the Senate will support this proposal. 
I sincerely believe that a committee of this Senate with all its powers will reveal to all Australians the problems confronting the blind, the deaf and the dumb, the cerebral palsy cases, the mentally and physically handicapped, the crippled, the spastics and the quadraplegics, their needs and their requirements. These are matters which we believe, and I think the whole nation believes, ought to be investigated so that some understanding might be had of this very vital matter. There is much to be done for the autistic children, those suffering from dyslexia - those requiring speech training and speech therapy - and the mongoloids. These are matters which have been spoken about in an idle fashion over a long period of time in both Houses of this Parliament. This matter was also referred to in the report of the Senate Select Committee on Medical and Hospital Costs which has been referred to as the Wedgwood Report. In fact that Report said that in relation to this matter there was so much to be done but that there was so little information available. I hope that those honourable senators who were associated with that Committee will endorse the proposal before us. 
The Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  estimates that there are some 50,000 handicapped children in Australia. I emphasise that this is only an estimate. The Minister has no definite information as to the number of people in Australia who are affected. In answer to a question asked on notice in May last the Minister said: 
The number of handicapped children in Australia is not known. 
As we all know when a question is on notice the Minister has time to study it and obtain advice from his Department, but that was his reply. The question was No. 905 on the notice paper of the House of Representatives. It has been claimed by a reliable authority that the latest figures of the World Health Organisation show that Australia could have up to an estimated 300,000 retarded children. I wish to refer to an extract from 'Trends in the Social Situation of Children'. In a report on children by the Secretary-General of the United Nations on 8th January 1970 it was stated that there could be 300,000 mentally retarded children in Australia. Those children are divided into 3 categories: Mildly, moderately, and severely. It was further estimated that every 78 minutes a child is born in this country which falls within one of those 3 categories. I do not say that my figures are right or wrong. In fact I hope that the estimate of the Minister as to handicapped children is correct. We on this side feel that there should be some investigation undertaken by this Parliament. I recently read of a retarded sub-normal girl in  a  criminal centre in Sydney. How many more of these unfortunates are in similar situations? I am asking, and we on this side are asking as a Party, to try to find out the number of persons so affected. This is our purpose in seeking to have this matter referred to the Standing Committee on Health and Welfare. 
On 6th August 1970 in the Sydney 'Sun' newspaper this article appeared: 
The Commonwealth Government will take steps to improve conditions for mentally and physically handicapped people in Australia. 
A confidential survey, underlining the need for better rehabilitation facilities for the handicapped, is to bc presented to Federal Cabinet. 
The moves follow a call for an inquiry into the situation by Labor  Senator j.  F. Fitzgerald on Monday. 

 Senator Fitzgerald suggested setting up a Senate committee to correct the frightening lack of sufficient information on the numbers of afflicted persons hi Australia. 
We should all be pleased that this information is to be sought if only by way of a confidential survey. The information is not available at the present time from the Department of Health, the Department of Social Services or the Commonwealth Bureau of Census and Statistics. 1 personally requested this information from these departments prior to speaking on the second reading of the Handicapped Children (Assistance) Bill 1970 on 11th June this year. 1 hope that the Government will not reject our proposal simply because this confidential survey is being undertaken. The government inquiry by departments could and probably will keep the information confidential and within the confines of their own use. 
I ask: Why was not such a survey made many years ago? Why did the Government wait until the Senate decided to take action? 1 repeat that on 11th June last we accepted by 28 votes to 23 the amendment that 1 read out. 1 am afraid that, if the Government intends to use this proposition as a counter to our proposal, every Australian will say that it is only a face-saving gimmick on the part of the Government and that it is not good enough. T feel that the Senate will not accept this counterproposal. A Senate committee can and will benefit from the knowledge of the government departments, as it will from that of the many organisations dealing directly with the problems in each of the States. 
I can say that those organisations are delighted that such an inquiry is likely to be conducted. I have before me at the moment letters from numerous organisations stating how delighted they are that an investigation of these problems is likely to be undertaken by the Parliament. I have letters from  Mr C.  H. Watt, the Managing Editor of Australian Children Ltd; from the Wheelchair and Disabled Association of Australia; from Miss Jean Garside, the Executive Director of the Australian Council for Rehabilitation of Disabled; from  His  Grace, Archbishop Carroll; from the Australian College of Speech Therapists; from the Speech Therapy Training School at the Royal Alexandra Hospital for Children; from Professor L. H. Stevens. Associate Professor of Paediatrics and  Chairman  of the Division of Neonatal Paediatrics at the University of New South Wales; from the Autistic Children's Association of New South Wales; and from numerous other organisations which I could go on naming for a long time. But, as I said before, this matter has been discussed at great length previously. 
As a matter of fact, 1 believe that the vast majority of honourable senators will not accept the proposition that this mailer is not one that should be dealt with by this Standing Committee. The fact is that this Standing Committee has been brought into being for the purpose of dealing with problems of this nature. We believed that this was the purpose of setting up such committees. I believe that the Senate will not be hoodwinked. 1 hope thai it will allow this inquiry, if no other inquiry, by this very thorough and, I am certain, responsible Committee. In our Caucus today we elected responsible people to this Committee. I am certain that the Government, senators will do likewise in their Caucus. The Democratic Labor Party has already made an announcement that one of its members will be appointed to a committee set up to make an investigation of all aspects and problems of physically and mentally handicapped people. 
When the Committee has been fully informed of all the problems and difficulties, it will bring before the Parliament and the people of Australia a repor t om lining the facts and the needs that require to be met. 1 assume that this is what the committee will do. We are all aware of the needs - and 1 mean 'all' because there is not a senator who is not conscious of the needs of the individual, the family and the institution, religious as well as private, in the way of medical and hospital care, educational and institutional requirements, research, guidance clinics, staff training and workshops. Therefore, I am confident that the Senate will support our proposal. In these days of great medical advancement it will be less costly for the Government to act quickly than to stand idly by and neglect to do something when there is so much to be done. I repeat that there is so much to be done. It has taken us a long time to reach the point of doing something along these lines. I appeal to the Senate today not to allow this opportunity to slip by. Let us not say: 'Let us wait for some years before reintroducing this matter in this Parliament'. I can assure the Senate that this question is very close to and held very dear by hundreds of thousands of people who have members of their families who are affected in this way. 
I do not want to belabour the matter. 1 repeat that 2 months ago we debated fully all the issues. I would like a decision to be made and a vote to be taken on the motion. It may be argued - this is certainly true - that this is not a new problem or something that has just been thrust upon us. No doubt it has existed since children were first born. But it is no credit to our nation that more has not been done, because only in more recent years has the Commonwealth Government entered into the picture in order to meet some of the many needs. But, with the advances in medical and scientific knowledge being made today, much can be done. Of course, it can be argued that the faster the rate of living - with so many accidents and such like - the worse the problem will become. 
Much can be learnt from overseas countries such as Sweden and America. We are all aware of the great progress that has been made in America, particularly as a result of the efforts of the late  President  John F. Kennedy. As we all know, he had a sub-normal sister. He made very great progress in this field. In an address to Congress some years ago he stated that mental illness disabled 10 times as many people as diabetes, 20 times as many people as tuberculosis, 20 times as many people as muscular distrophy and 600 times as many people as infantile paralysis. He referred to that as being the position in America, but it is also the position in comparable countries. Australia, as a comparable country, would find itself in that position, although as regards to tuberculosis, of course, the figure today would be much higher than 20. 
In regard to my own personal endeavours -  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson commented on this point - in 1954 he and I led a deputation to the Prime Minister of the day,  Mr Menzies  as he then was, on questions similar to those that were dealt with in the Bill that dealt with physically handicapped persons some 16 years later. That is why I say to the Senate: Do not let us wail another 16 years before we do these important things. We put proposals before the Prime Minister of the day at that conference in 1954. Whilst he was very sympathetic, nothing was done. 
In 1964 I submitted to the Parliament a motion on the need for a national inquiry. We had a great discussion on that. Yet, whilst nobody objected, nothing was done to establish it. That was 6 years ago. A full debate took place on that motion. The present Minister for Housing  (Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin)  took part in that debate. In 1969 I again placed a motion on the Senate notice paper, but when the Senate was prorogued because of the elections that motion went out of existence. Then on 17th June last the amendment that I have read out was carried by 28 votes to 23. Subsequently, similar motions were placed on the notice paper. 
Whilst I have shown some degree of interest in this matter, other members of this Parliament have just as much desire and eagerness to see a motion of this character carried. In my view, as I have said previously, this is one of the most important matters to be dealt with by the Senate because it may help so many children already born and so many yet unborn. It is not a party political issue; it is a humane issue. I believe that future generations will judge us not by our great wealth or our great buildings, such as the Sydney Opera House, but by the way we help those who are unable to help themselves. This Committee can readily secure information and assistance from each of our States, from the many organisations which operate to help those in need and from every advanced country in the world. It may open up a new life for many handicapped persons., their dedicated families and teachers throughout the nation. 
I sincerely ask honourable senators to support the motion so that the matter can be referred to the Standing Committee on which all parties in the Senate are represented. 1 believe we would be serving humanity by that move. We would help hundreds of thousands of families who, I say with all the sincerity I can muster, are looking today for assistance with their great problems. Again I repeat this nation will not be judged in the future by what we have done in the fields of manufacture and production but by what we have done to help our people in need, i ask the Senate to support the motion. 

 Senator BYRNE (Queensland) [4.46J - The Senate is indebted to  Senator Fitzgerald.  He has raised this very important matter for our consideration on a number of occasions. He has waged a crusade to have this matter of conspicuous importance presented for the consideration of the Senate and the attention of the Australian people. He has shown great concern for the relief of mentally and physically handicapped children. In more recent times  Senator Fitzgerald  has presented 2 motions to the Senate, both of which still stand on the notice paper. In each case he has asked for the appointment of an investigating committee. In one case he has asked that a Senate select committee investigate the whole question of mentally and physically handicapped children in the community. 
I believe that the Senate is in complete accord with  Senator Fitzgerald  as to the importance of the subject and the need for early investigation and governmental and national attention. The only area of dispute between the honourable senator and some members of the Senate is as to a better method by which that end could be accomplished. In more recent days we have provided for the establishment of a series of standing committees and have actually established 2 of them. One of those committees might be considered to be an appropriate vehicle for the carriage of such an investigation, but that is the area of dispute. 
Already this matter has been canvassed on the first motion moved by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Murphy).  The general principles were discussed and on behalf of the Australian Democratic Labor Party I expressed the feelings of the Party as to the principles that should be applied in the operation of the standing committees and as to the nature of the references that should be made to them. In broad outline, as I recall, those principles expressed that matters of very great proportion and area of investigation which would involve protracted inquiries may not be suitable, and probably would not be suitable, for a standing committee which, by the very nature of its constitution, seems more particularly adapted to specific references in a narrow field with the consequence of being able to present a report on a limited area of investigation and to report promptly for the on-going business of the Senate. lt is obvious that the project espoused by  Senator Fitzgerald  is worth while, but it does not appear to me to be a matter of investigation that would fall within the compass of those committees, worthy and all as the project is. I strike a note of caution, more particularly since the circulation of the paper by the  Clerk  of the Senate as to the proposed mode of operation of various committees. The Standing Orders Committee will have what we might call designated members', but all senators may participate in its discussions. A designated member will be a voting member, as I understand it. 
If a matter of this proportion were referred to that Committee and went over a period, one can imagine that there could he 2 consequences. One consequence could be that while the major investigation was proceeding at great length and with great particularity, a number of intermediate references could come from the Senate to the Committee on ad hoc matters requiring immediate investigation and quick report. That would immediately put the major investigation down the line until almost inevitably there would be a series of interruptions, continuity of investigation would be lost, and continuity of interest in honourable senators would be destroyed. If this continued over a period, there would be a constant appearing and disappearing of members of the Committee. It seems to me that it would completely destroy the effectiveness of the investigation to obtain the type of information which it is necessary for such a committee to obtain. 
For the reasons I have stated I do not feel that our Party can support this proposition. We have already indicated our interest in the project. On 2 occasions we have shown our hearty support for the proposal that a select committee of the Senate should be appointed to investigate this matter. We have stated that we would be prepared to serve on it. On the last occasion this matter was discussed  Senator Little  spoke for our Party and indicated that it had our warm support. In very emotional terms, apparently because he has had some particular acquaintance with this type of disability, the honourable senator indicated that he would be our nominee for the committee. 
The importance of this matter rests in human and economic terms. It is the aim of all parties in this Parliament to enrich our society. We set our faces strongly against the economic disentitlement of anybody who is not able to participate in an enriched society. Disentitlement to participate could well arise from intellectual inhibitions, or physical or other deprivations. It is therefore our role to make sure that every person is put in a position, despite economic or physical handicaps, where he or she will be given the maximum opportunity to participate in the society which we are continuously attempting to enrich. After all, if every human unit is not used to the full extent of intellectual and physical capacity, the opportunities to enrich that very society will themselves be limited. 
On all grounds and for all reasons, the object we are discussing is a most worthy one. I disagree with  Senator Fitzgerald  only as to the method by which he is pursuing it. Therefore I find that our Party cannot support the motion to refer this matter to the Standing Committee. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Postmaster-General. In view of the savage charges to be imposed by the Government on a number of organisations by the proposed increase in postal charges, which will cost the National Roads and Motorists Association an additional $100,000 per annum and the Australian Workers Union more than $26,000 per annum to post their free newspapers to their members, as well as adding to the costs of numerous religious organisations, friendly societies and trade unions which will be similarly affected but which are too numerous to mention individually, will the PostmasterGeneral reconsider the huge increase in charges to be made on journals or newspapers which are posted free to members of such organisations? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science would he approach his colleague to have the government library grants scheme extended to cover primary schools. This request is supported by parents and teachers throughout New South Wales and, I am sure, by all Australians. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThis matter is really one of policy, but 1 certainly will refer the question to the Minister for Education and Science for consideration. 
Let me say at the outset that Australians are disgusted with the miserable and paltry 50c a week that is granted under this Budget to the pensioners - those pioneers who are now our aged and infirm - and also with the same miserable sum that is given to widow pensioners, particularly in view of the fact that the Treasurer  (Mr Bury),  in the Budget Speech that he made in this Parliament on 18th August last, drew attention to the question of further inflationary trends. He said: 
Cost and price increases gathered pace. Average weekly earnings rose by about 8 per cent in 1969-70. The consumer price index rose at an accelerating rate throughout the year, reaching an annual rate of growth above 5 per cent in the June quarter. 
I have much pleasure in moving, on behalf of the Australian Labor Party, the following amendment to the motion for the second reading of this Bill: 
At end of motion add: 'but the Senate is of opinion that - 
the increases proposed are inadequate; 
social service payments generally are inadequate to maintain an acceptable standard of living; 
steps should be taken immediately to eliminate poverty; and 
a contributory national superannuation system should be established and the means test eliminated.' 
The 1969-70 annual report of the Department of Social Services shows that at 30th June last there were just on 1 million pensioners throughout the Commonwealth. There were 779,007 age pensioners, 133,766 invalid pensioners and 86,921 widow pensioners. No doubt the number would be in excess of 1 million by now. 
The Minister for Housing  (Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin),  who represents the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth),  said in introducing this Bill: 
This Bill does two things: 
It increases the base rate of pensions, both standard and married and all widows, by 50c per week. 
It introduces a long term sickness benefit, at a higher rate than the old scale. 
The long term sickness benefit applies after benefit has been in force continuously for a period of 6 weeks. Since the announcement of the changes in social service benefits proposed in the Budget, the 50c a week increase has been condemned strongly by every section of the community. Trade unions have protested. We know the extremes and the extent to which they went about their protests. Pensioner organisations have inundated members of Parliament with complaints. They have written to the Press about their feelings in relation to the increase. The  President  of the Commonwealth Pensioners Federation,  Mrs Irene  Ellis, said: 
The 50c would be laughable if it were not so serious for pensioners. ' 
The Press had its say in condemnation of the 50c a week increase to pensioners. The Sydney 'Sun' said: 
Tt is disgusting. 
The 'Mirror', in its editorial, said: 
The 50c a week rise in most pensions is most deplorable. 
The Treasurer should not be too surprised to find a host of angry pensioners descending on Canberra. He will find they have come to seize Bury, not to praise him. 
That such a paltry increase was conceived by any government is a complete disgrace to this so-called affluent society. Our leader,  Mr Whitlam,  when addressing a recent trade union meeting, said: 
This is the first time in 40 years that a government has made the sick and the aged pay for its economic policy, for our war in Vietnam and for other dubious commitments. 
I adopt that with all the sincerity I can muster because of the number of dubious commitments in which the Government is involved. The waste of public money which I think people reading the AuditorGeneral's Report would find justifies my making the statements I do. An additional 50c a week would have cost approximately $30m extra. This money would have been available if no taxation cuts had been made for those earning $16,000 a year or more. Any amount can be found for war, but little can be found for the needy. To illustrate the cost to Australia of the war and the cost of the taxation cuts and to justify the statements I have made about the needy paying for the economic conditions in which we live at present, I remind honourable senators that in 1963 the tax on the average income was 7.6 per cent of the average weekly wage. In 1969 the tax on the average income was 13.1 per cent of the wage paid. 
While Australia ranks among the top 5 nations of the world, I million people are living in poverty or in marginal poverty. A recent Melbourne survey by the Brotherhood of St Lawrence showed that one person out of every 5 of the city's age pensioners, one out of every 4 of its large families, one out of every 3 of its widows, deserted wives or divorcees and the vast majority of our Aboriginals were living in poverty. This result could be substantiated by organisations such as St Vincent de Paul and the Salvation Army. They know of the poverty and the dire circumstances in which these people are living. As Secretary of the Federal Parliamentary Labor Party for a number of years and as Private Secretary to the late  Dr Evatt  and to MiArthur Calwell, I have met many pensioners here and in Sydney and have heard in my office in this Parliament House and in my Sydney office the pitiful stories told by such people about how they survive. Those who come here as representatives of pensioner organisations have spoken of pensioners having t decent meal a day. On the pensions they receive they can buy 1 suit from a second hand jumble stall each 2 or 3 years. I recall and remember vividly the words of Henry Lawson. Those words are not very far removed from the present circumstances so far as these I million people are concerned. Lawson's words were: 
I wonder would the apathy of wealthy men endure (f their  windowsills  were level with  tbe  faces  of  the poor. 
Oh mammon slaves your knees shall knock, your hearts in terror beat, When Cod demands  a  reason for the faces in the street. 
I believe that members of the Commonwealth Parliament who are living in some degree of affluence and of luxury ought to remind themselves of the situation that confronts these unfortunate people. The great tragedy is that of the widow with children. She has to feed and clothe them. Under present conditions how can these children ever rise above the poverty line? The number of A class widows in 1969 totalled 44,000. The number of dependent children totalled 43,904. Those figures are taken from the latest report of the Commonwealth Department of Social Services. These unfortunate children are condemned to face problems of hardship throughout their lives. The means test should not be applied to the widows pension now. The Government should not talk about what it will do in the future. Right now the means test should not be applied to widows with children. I am not including or discussing war widows. I believe that a war widow is receiving not a pension but a compensation for the loss of her husband who died in defence of his country. I make a plea on behalf of the children of widows. Widows will receive an extra 50c a week under this Bill, but they ought to receive much more if they hope to have the right to live a decent life in our society. I make this plea because I have heard it said that the Government hopes to do something further to help pensioners, perhaps before the next Budget. I read in the Press recently about a conference of the Liberal Party in Sydney. The conference was pressing for greater benefits for these people. 
The Government loves to compare past and present values and the percentages of 1949 and of 1970. It has made many attempts and gone through many extremes to do so. It forgets to tell us of the great industrial advances that have been made in the last 20-odd years, of the great mineral finds in this country, the greatest bonanza in the history of Australia for the big companies. It never tells of the huge inflation, but those on the bread line know just exactly what this inflation means. The June figures released by the Commonwealth Statistician show that the basic rate of pay is $36.90 a week but that the average rate of earnings is $77.80 a week. I know the Government likes to talk about the great prosperity that exists in this country, but f believe that it should realise that $77.80 is the average weekly earnings. That figure has been culled from the Commonwealth Statistician's latest journal which he has submitted to Parliament. 
Pensioners pay for bread, butter, cigarettes, shoes and clothing, if they can afford them, the same prices as those in receipt of the average wage; they do not pay less. When we talk about the amounts paid to age pensioners and what they are receiving, we have to compare those amounts with what other individuals are receiving. In the Government's attempt to justify this miserable pittance it has gone to extravagant extremes to compare present rates with those applicable over 20 years ago. Surely with the great period of development since the Second World War and in this great era when wealth and production have increased at a tremendous rate it would be stupid to try to compare present rates with those existing almost a quarter of a century ago. In spite of this great advancement, in spite of the great profits made by industries - and they are quoted and specified day by day in the Press - such as Mt Isa Mines Ltd and the Broken Hill Pty Company Limited, in spite of. the bulk of the great mineral discoveries which I have mentioned and in spite of the profits made by large retail stores, we have many people in need. What is the plight of those in need? They alone know. In 1949 the Budget of the Chifley Government provided for expenditure of about $l,000m. The present Budget provides for expenditure of almost $8,000m, a sevenfold increase. One must consider those figures in making a comparison in percentages of the pensions paid in 1949 and now. In 1948 the basic rate of pension was 27 per cent of the average basic wage. The pension paid today to a married pensioner represents 19.3 per cent of the average weekly wage. Surely no honourable senator would attempt to justify the miserable pittance paid to pensioners today. 
The Minister has made no comparison of the other social service payments paid in past years and now. The maternity allowance has remained unaltered since 1947 despite tremendous changes in hospital and medical costs and the excessive increase in the cost of rearing youngsters. Child endowment paid for the first child has not been altered for 20 years and remains at 50c a week. To provide for a baby the food and care recommended by baby health centres costs about $4 a week. It is true that there have been some increases in social service benefits, but since 1950 child endowment for the second child has remained at Si a week. In 1964 a change was made for third and subsequent children, and in 1967 for fourth and subsequent children. No comparison has been made to include the adjustments that should properly have been made to those rates. 
The funeral benefit paid in respect of pensioners has remained unaltered since ils introduction in 1943. lt has remained at $20, except in the case of a surviving pensioner partner, who receives an extra $20. That total sum would not meet half the cost of a coffin. The present Minister for Social Services ranted and raved as a back bencher about what he would do to change the means test provisions, but nothing has been done in that direction. Government supporters make a great cry about the tapered means test, but the base rate of pension remains well below the percentage of the basic wage that was paid to pensioners in 1949. 
What would Labor do if it achieved office? How would Labor finance the proposals we are talking about at the moment? I have mentioned to honourable senators exactly what Labor would do and what should be done in the present situation. Had taxation concessions not been extended to people in receipt of an annual income of over $16,000 the Government would have been able to provide an additional 50c a week for pensioners. That may have had some value for them. Members of the Labor Party have said in speeches in this Parliament, both here and in the other place, that Labor would introduce a capital gains tax and would make a significant increase in company taxes, with the proviso that in conjunction with the States a system of prices and profit restraint would be introduced. Higher income tax would be paid by people with annual incomes exceeding $20,000. Labor would institute positive and proper economies in government and public spending, including a review of subsidies and money and other considerations now being accorded to privileged groups. Labor would also tighten controls on overseas investment in Australia and the transfer of profits abroad which takes place to the very great detriment of this country. 
I am tired of hearing comparisons of pensions paid by Labor as a percentage of the basic wage. I have no doubt that we will hear of what Labor did in the great depression of 1930. I would like to put the record straight. At that time the Scullin Government was forced to reduce pensions by 2s 6d a week, which caused a great division in the ranks of the Labor Party. This chamber played a dastardly and cowardly role in denying to the Labor Government the right to govern. It refused that Government the passage of legislation to provide finance to feed the people during the depression. Theodore's fiduciary issue of 21m was held up by the Senate. It is no wonder that the abolition of the Senate, the last bastion of big business, is still part of the Labor Party's platform. Honourable senators opposite have a chance to justify the existence of the Senate to the people who are affected by the Budget and who remember the role of the Senate in the events of 1929-30. The Scullin Government was defeated in the election which followed. Whilst the Scullin Government was forced to reduce pensions by 2s 6d a week in that awful period the Lyons Government which succeeded it in office - and that Government is endorsed by Government supporters today- on taking office reduced pensions by a further 2s 6d a week, and introduced a harsher means test. The pension at that time was 15s a week. 
Some honourable senators may regard the history I am detailing as superfluous, but my point is to state exactly where Labor stands on these issues and what Labor has done in this field. This point has been raised in debates in another place. Let us face the facts. Labor has governed in the Federal sphere for 144 years out of the last 70 years and has been out of office for the past 21 years. The present Government has been in office for the last 21 years and in that time in the Meld of social services it has provided only a few additional fringe benefits. T am not deriding those benefits. Everyone was pleased to obtain them. 
Labor has been responsible for the introduction of ever)' major social service benefit either by direct legislation or by lending support to a government which sought that support as the price of remaining in office. In 1901  Sir John  See led the Government of New South Wales, while Labor held the balance of power.  His  Government introduced the age pension. In 1909 the Deakin Government introduced the age pension in the Federal sphere because of the support of Labor, which held the balance of power. On previous occasions 1 have said in this Parliament that as a former Secretary of the Federal Parliamentary Labor Party I have read the letters forwarded in 1909 by Alfred Deakin, then Prime Minister of the Commonwealth, to  Mr J.  C. Watson, Federal Leader of the Labor Party, pledging the introduction of the age pension for the support of the Labor Party which at that time had the balance of power. In 1901 and 1909, in the New South Wales and Common wealth governments Labor held the balance of power and used it to ensure the introduction of the age pension. 
In 1910 the Fisher Labor Government introduced the invalid pension. Child endowment was introduced in 1927 by the Lang Labor Government of New South Wales. The payment was 5s a week for each child. That is the amount paid today by the Commonwealth Government for the first child. In 1945 and 1948 the Curtin and Chifley Labor Governments instituted payment of 10s a week for children after the first child. In 1950 the Menzies Government introduced child endowment for the first child. The maternity allowance was introduced by the Fisher Labor Government in 1912. The unemployment and sickness benefit was introduced by the Curtin Labor Government in 1945. The widows pension was introduced by the Lang Labor Government of New South Wales in 1927. It was introduced in the Commonwealth field by the Curtin Labor Government in 1942. It was adjusted by the Menzies Government in 1963 and certain adjustments have been made since. The funeral benefit and the rehabilitation service were also introduced by the Curtin Government in 1941. If it had not been for the Labor Party it is quite probable that no social services legislation would have been introduced in the Commonwealth Parliament. Social services first came constitutionally within the sphere of the Commonwealth as a result of a referendum in 1946 when the Chifley Government was in office. The social services referendum was carried by 2,297,934 votes to 1,927,148. While it could be argued that the Opposition of the day did not oppose the extension of social service benefits, the facts are that nearly 2 million people voted against the proposals which were put forward by the Labor Government. 
The Government's so-called concern for pensioners is only a vote catching gimmick. At heart it is really opposed to the pay-( ment of pensions. The Government believes that those who are in need should be cared for by their families. Supporters of the Government- even its Ministers - are on record as having made these statements. Hugh Roberton, a former Minister for Social Services, and other Ministers have made very pronounced statements on this important subject. It is understandable that the Government opposes the payment of pensions because, as has been said so many times by honourable senators on this side of the chamber, it represents the wealthy section of our society. The Australian Labor Party, which came info being just on 90 years ago, has had as one of the foremost planks of its platform the provision of proper care and assistance to those in need. I repeat that an estimated one million people in Australia are on the poverty line. The word 'pension' almost spells out poverty. This will always be the situation while the present Government remains in office. The only way pensioners can and will improve their lot in life is to organise themselves into one powerful body to demand their rights. Whilst this nonsense of regarding pension payments as a non-political matter is accepted the pensioners will continue to get miserable handouts in each budget. 
As J have pointed out it was the Chifley Government which in 1946 held a referendum to determine whether the Commonwealth Parliament should have power to enter the field of social services. The people of Australia should never forget that when John Curtin defeated the Fadden Government in 1941 and came into power he was concerned not only with the war effort but also with the unequal distribution of the national wealth, which caused him on 1st October 1941, in protest against the methods provided in the Budget for the raising of revenue, to move that the first item in the Estimates be reduced by 1. He gave his reasons for doing so as being as follows: 
That, while agreeing that the expenditure requisite for a maximum prosecution of the war should be provided by Parliament, the Committee is opposed to the unjust methods prescribed by the Budget, declares that they are contrary to true equality of sacrifice, and directs that the plan of the Budget should be recast to ensure a more equitable distribution of the national burden. 
John Curtin said that the Labor Party would, on assuming office, raise age and invalid pensions to at least 22s 6d a week and that it would at once ascertain how it could go beyond that figure. This was the situation when the Labor Party came into office. I know that some honourable senators will raise the question of how the Curtin Government reduced pensions by ls but they conveniently forget that this ls reduction in pensions was as a result of a reduction in the basic wage, and that the pension was readjusted within days. I do believe that the pensioners of today realise that a great error was made when a break was made in the tying of the pension to the basic wage. I support the return of this concept. I hope to see the day when pensioners will be able to live in comfort. 
The Australian Labor Party's proposal to bring an end to poverty was outlined by its Leader in his policy speech during the last election campaign. He said: 
 I pledge the Labor Party ... to an Australian assistance plan designed to help Australia's 1 million poor permanently out of poverty; to abolition of the means test over fi years; to a national superannuation scheme, embracing the retired, the widowed and the invalid; to automatic annual pension increases . . . 
All honourable senators on this side of the chamber are pledged to support these proposals. The election of a Labor government will ensure the introduction of a contributory national superannuation system and the elimination of the means lest, as is proposed in my amendment. At its recent Federal conference the Australian Labor Party adopted a new national health and national superannuation scheme, involving abolition of the means test on age pensions, to put to the people of Australia at the next Federal elections. The national health scheme will provide free hospital treatment and medical, dental and chemist services based on a specified social services contribution, lt will be free of a means test. T ask honourable senators to study the national superannuation proposals of Professor Downing. They are very close to the views which Labor spokesmen hold on this question. In the interests of those in need and all Australians generally I ask the Senate to support the amendment which I have proposed. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Lawrie)  - Is the amendment seconded? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. As Air Vice Marshal Ky, Vice-President of South Vietnam, has been told that it is not advisable for him to visit the United States of America, is there any truth in the rumours circulating in Canberra that he is to be invited by the Australian Government to visit this country again to boost the Government's popularity, which is diminishing as a result of its support of the war in Vietnam? 
I could very quickly point out to the honourable senator that, with 5 Ministers in this Senate dealing with 26 portfolios, it is difficult enough to deal with questions of facts without going into rumours.  I  know nothing of the rumour.  I  suggest that the honourable senator should have a more authentic background for his question. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI will not respond to interjections asking me for opinions.  I  know of no such rumour. 
On 19th August, over 5 weeks ago, I asked the Minister for Civil Aviation a question about the site for a second airport for Sydney. The Minister advised me on that day that a committee had been at work on this matter for some time and he expected to have a report from that committee in his hands within a month. I now ask: Can the Minister advise how long this committee has been meeting and who are its members? Also, when will the announcement of the site for the second airport for Sydney be made? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the 
Minister for Health. On 5th June, nearly 4 months ago, I asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health whether she was in a position to advise what action had been taken by the Government and the Commonwealth Department of Health to further Professor J. Bronstein's treatment for diabetics which had been acclaimed in medical circles as a breakthrough and a better and safer treatment than insulin. As there are an estimated 250,000 diabetics in Australia I asked whether the Minister would regard this investigation as one of great urgency. She said at that time that she recognised the seriousness of this matter and would advise me as soon as possible. I ask her whether she is now in a position to advise the Senate of what action the Department or the Government has taken in regard to this investigation. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Health aware that a number of electronic devices which would change and in fact revolutionise the lives of blind people have been discovered recently; that one device from England is termed an electronic eye and that another device demonstrated recently at Sydney Airport by a blind American girl enabled her to read? Can the Minister advise whether the Department of Health is making any investigation in this field to make possible this wonderful mechanism 10 the blind citizens in our community? I shall make available to the Minister, if she requires it, the material that I have on this subject. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Civil Aviation. I ask: Is there any truth in the report which appeared in last weekend's 'Sunday Telegraph' that the new or second international airport planned for Sydney may be scrapped and that the Government may keep secret a report which has been prepared on a proposed second international airport until after the Senate election? If there is no truth in the Press report when will the Minister advise the Parliament of the recommendations of the interdepartmental committee? Further, will the Minister assure the Parliament that the contents of this report will be announced before the Senate rises for the forthcoming Senate election? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Civil Aviation. In view of his statement that the Commonwealth will provide 75 per cent and the New South Wales Government 25 per cent of the cost of building an air strip on Lord 
Howe Island, when will the building of the air strip commence and what is the approximate date of its completion? 
Can the 
Minister representing the Minister for Immigration advise when the immigration agreement discussed by the Australian 
Minister for immigration and the Maltese Government some months ago will be made available to this Parliament? Can she also advise whether the agreement with Malta will embrace the reciprocal social service benefits that are now granted to people from Britain and New Zealand who intend to reside permanently in Australia as they, like Maltese citizens, are members, of the British Commonwealth? The Minister will recall that T have asked this question many times in the last 3 years since the visit of  Mr Mintoff,  the former Prime Minister of Malta, who came to Australia for the purpose of having discussions with the Australian Government on this matter. 
ls the Minister for Civil Aviation aware of the great number of protests by residents received from five local councils and from the Federal member for Chifley,  Mr John  Armitage, in relation to the possibility of Sydney's second airport being located near Richmond? Is any account taken by the Minister or the civil aviation authorities of such protests ali of which have pointed out the problems and difficulties that an additional airport would create in this thickly populated area? If the Minister is interested in the well-being of people and is anxious not to create inconvenience in densely populated areas, wit: he, as has been requested, meet a deputation from this district to explain their reasons for opposing a second airport in the area around the Richmond RAAF base? 
asked the 
Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Does the Taxation Department  prefer to  promote officers with accountancy qualifications  over  unqualified persons. 
What is the basis  of  selection  in cases  where unqualified people are promoted  in preference  to qualified officers. 
Promotions in the Commonwealth Taxation Office are made in accordance with the Public Service Act and Regulations. 
Under the relevant provisions, the Public Ser vice Board is authorised to make determinations prescribing qualifications needed as a prerequisite for promotion or transfer to particular positions. In relation to the Commonwealth Taxation Office, the Board has determined that promotions or transfers to certain positions, mainly in the assessing, investigation, appeals and advising areas, shall be limited to officers who - 
have completed an appropriate course of training in accountancy; or 
have completed appropriate subjects of a course in accountancy or law at a recognised educational institution; or 
have other appropriate qualifications; or 
were on the 31st day of December 1966 or at any previous time, the nominal occupants of certain specified offices. 
Subject to the qualification requirements, the Public Service Act requires that in selecting an officer for promotion, consideration is given first to relative efficiency and in the event of equality of efficiency of two or more officers, then to the relative seniority of officers available for promotion to the vacancy. 
My question is addressed to the Leader of the Government. In view of the Treasurer's statement that the cost to the Commonwealth of paying pensioners an additional 50c a week would be an extra $30m a year and would plunge the economy into headlong inflation, can the Minister now advise what will be the effect upon the economy of the loss of $90m this financial year because of the Commonwealth being unable to collect the receipts duties tax? Further will the Minister give an assurance that after the Senate election no credit squeeze will be brought about by the banks or by the introduction of a supplementary budget because the economy has been affected by the loss of the $90m? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONIn the first place [ do not know how the honourable senator arrived at the figure of $90m, But putting that aside for the moment, the fact is that we are in the Budget session, during which we have debated the merits of the Budget and its structure. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Works and Minister-m-Charge of Tourist Activities. In view of everyone's desire to avoid accidents by eliminating dangerous sections of roads, will the Minister through his Department look at the many narrow stretches of winding road on Highway 23 from the Hume Highway turnoff to within 10 miles of Canberra? This road is the gateway to our most popular tourist attractions - one being the national capital, Canberra, and the other being the Snowy Mountains resorts which are a winter* and summer attraction. In conjunction, if necessary, with the State of New South Wales,  will the Government construct a road or highway which will assist tourism and be a credit to Australia? I am sure the Minister will find- 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Social Services received correspondence from highly distinguished and reputable citizens who are sponsoring the pensioners little budget campaign - the correspondence has been forwarded to the Prime Minister and copies have been forwarded to senators and Federal members - requesting that pensions be raised by a further $1 a week in order to meet the large increase in living costs? As the Parliament will adjourn this week for approximately 4 months, will she approach the Minister for Social Services in order to secure justice for pensioners, as this matter has the support of 80 per cent of the Australian people? 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for Health advise whether the Government is making any attempt to extend the pensioner health services to cover all injuries and illnesses affecting pensioners? ls the Minister aware that the present health services for pensioners do not include specialist treatment, treatment for numerous complaints, general anaesthetics operations and the setting of fractures? Is it a fact that a pensioner who is treated by a doctor who is not a member of the hospital scheme has to pay for such services as well as the hospital charges? Would not the Minister agree that sudden illness and accidents happen to pensioners and that they should not be burdened financially because of such difficulties? Will she do everything in her power to broaden the pensioner health services to overcome such extenuating circumstances? 
Does the Minister representing the Treasurer recall my request prior to the Budget to reduce sales tax on women's face powder and requisites? I ask him, in the name of everything decent: How can the Government justify the increase of sales tax on ladies' face powders and requisites while dog powders are free of sales tax? Is he aware of the strong protests from women's organisations throughout Australia on this matter? 
-Is the Minister for Air aware that as far back as November 1969 the Australian nation was warned that the storage of Australia's 24 Fill fighter bombers in the USA could cost up to $ 1,700 a day? Can the Minister advise the Senate of the total cost of storage up to the present time? ls this cost of $1,700 a day still occuring? If not, what is the daily cost of storage or parking fees for the 24 Fill fighter bombers in the US? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration. I ask: Has the Australian Government given any consideration to changing Australia's immigration policies and laws as a result of pressure by Japanese companies with financial interests in Australia to allow Japanese immigrants into this country? Further, does the Japanese Government not have a migration policy which is as protective to its people as the Australian Government considers its present policy is to its people? 
 Referring to the payment of salaries and allowances and overtime, I should like to know whether it is true that in the month of May of this year the Department of Trade and Industry secured the services of Drake Overload agency and brought in female staff from outside the Department of Trade and Industry to work from 6 p.m. to 9 p.m. or 10 p.m. at $2 per hour. I am led to believe that the Department found itself without funds to pay for overtime. It is rather strange that this sort of situation should occur, because if the Department had overspent the amount of money provided for overtime there was sufficient time for it to make application for funds from the Treasurer's Advance to cover such circumstances. I note that an amount of $156,450 was provided and- 
Consideration interrupted. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development. In view of the great deposits of uranium in Australia and the overseas interest in their development, will the Australian Government consider enriching its uranium or having it fabricated here before selling it overseas in order to get increased export earnings? Has the Government taken this type of action in the metals field, metals being pelletised in Australia before being sold abroad? 
I regret that when the Estimates Committee was discussing these estimates I did not have at my disposal the information which 1 commenced to give last night when I was speaking in the Estimates debate and which I will continue to give this morning. I was pleased to have the opportunity to mention this matter last night because it gave an opportunity to the departmental officers to obtain answers to some of the questions that I raised. If this information had been available 1 would have taken up the matter with the Public Accounts Committee because I believe that an explanation is required. In turn, if my information is correct I believe that the Department of Trade and Industry has much to answer. This information came to me by virtue of discussions 1 had with members of the Federated Clerks Union who advised me that this sort of activity had been conducted by the Department. I want to know whether an outside firm, the Drake Overload agency, was brought in to assist the Department of Trade and Industry by providing staff from outside the Department to work overtime from 6 p.m. to 10 p.m. If so, could not the competent staff of the Department have done this work? If the overtime appropriation had not been spent then it should have been used on this work. If this firm was brought in because the overtime appropriation had reached the stage at which it was insufficient for the purpose - and I think there may have been some juggling there - then it was quite inappropriate and incorrect for the Department take that course. It had the opportunity to come backto the Treasurer for a supplementary appropriation and it should have done so. How long did this work go on? What was the cost of employing this firm? I did mention the fact that the Federated Clerks Union came into this because some employees were paid $2 an hour and union members objected most strongly to this. They took the matter to the union which took appropriate action with the Public Service Board to have this practice stopped. I also asked the Minister when the Public Service Board stopped the employment of this firm after complaints from the Federated Clerks Union that the employees were underpaid? While it may be argued, of course, that it is not the responsibility of the Department of Trade to find what wages are being paid to employees of an outside firm, I do think there is an obligation on a government organisation to see that correct overtime rates are paid by any person or agency with which it is involved. The answers to those questions will be very useful to me and I know  they  are looked forward to with  some  degree of interest by outside bodies such as the union. 
 I wish to join the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition,  Senator Willesee,  and other leaders who have spoken in paying my respect and tribute to the memory of the late  Senator Jim  Ormonde. I had known him since I joined the Labor movement just on 40 years ago. He was a good Labor man. He came from a great Labor family. As has been said he worked in mines before serving on the Joint Coal Board, during which service he gave great help and assistance in the war years to Labor Prime Ministers John Curtin and Ben Chifley, f know of the great work he performed in this trying period when a lot of difficulties arose. 
Tt has been truly said by other speakers tha! he worked as a journalist on the 'Labor Daily' and the 'Weekly Standard' and was  a  Labor publicist of the highest order. He was for a number of years vice-president of the same executive on which I served and his diligent work there earned him the respect of people right throughout the length and breadth of . the Labor movement. As  Senator Willesee  has already pointed out, Jim Ormonde contested the State electorate of Waverley, but it has not been mentioned that prior to that, as a very young man, he also contested the blue ribbon conservative seat of Wentworth as Labor's representative. 
Jim Ormonde was always at the forefront in fighting for every tenet of the Labor movement. Tt can be truly said that he was a man of very high principle. One could disagree wilh him but one could never disregard his friendship. I think all honourable senators regarded him as one of the most loveable characters ever to enter the Federal Parliament. He was a good man in every respect. He loved his family deeply. You,  Mr President,  and many other distinguished members of this Parliament attended the church service which was held in his honour. T think we were all touched by the very fine tribute which was paid to him by the attendance of such a large congregation. I was very moved by the remarks made by his own brother, the Rev. Father Ormonde, who conducted the service, and  1  am sure we all understood the strain that the occasion placed on Father Ormonde. 
On behalf of my own family and all Jim's friends in the Labor movement I would like to express to his dear wife, sons and daughters my deepest sympathy in their bereavement. 
 I rise without apology to honourable senators to draw the attention of the Senate to the plight of people who live in the flooded areas of north-western New South Wales. 
I visited this area last week. With apologies to  Sir Thomas  Bracken 1 wish to say: 'I would to God that men could see more clearly or speak less harshly where they cannot see'. I think this applies very vividly to some of those people who tonight would like to interject and create an atmosphere; who cry and squeal about being kept up at this late hour. There are people in these flooded areas who are not sleeping tonight. 
I visited the Narrabri area and was able to bring a realistic picture to the attention of the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  who,I am aware, controls the purse strings of this nation. As a result, I forwarded to him the following telegram on 8th February 1971, which was last Monday: 
Tremendousflood devastation in north-west New South Wales towns of Wee Waa and Narrabri alone estimate their losses by Mayor Alderman Heath and other reliable authorities in excess of $40m. No doubt your parliamentary colleagues and members for the district have advised you of the position. I personally feel that a further announcement by you as PrimeMinister should be made giving greater financial assistance to all who have suffered in this disastrous flood. Only for the magnificent voluntary work performed in the area losses would have been much greater. 
The telegram was forwarded by me from 9 Bridge Street, Narrabri. I sent a copy of the telegram to the Premier of New South Wales together with a letter to the effect that the telegram had been forwarded to the Prime Minister and I fell that it was important that the Premier know its contents. I want to say in passing that prior to ray sending that telegram the Prime Minister had made a statement to the effect that the Commonwealth had already agreed to provide $50,000 to the New South Wales Government on a $ l-for-$l basis to relieve the personal hardship and distress of the New South Wales flood victims. A Press statement about the Prime Minister's offer was issued on 8th February - the day my telegram was forwarded to him. On 9th February the Prime Minister made a further statement, which is too lengthy for me to read. However, in it he advised the Premier of New South Wales that certain things would be done. In winding up his statement he said: 
Preliminary estimates suggested that an amount in excess of$10m could be involved. This would, of course, be additional to the substantial expenditure on restoring flood damage that would be financed through private insurance. 
I felt that it may have been argued that the figure which had been mentioned to me was excessive, so I checked it last night with the Mayor of Narrabri, who advised me that the Minister for Agriculture and the honourable member for Barwon, whose electorate includes the towns of Narrabri and Wee Waa, had asked him where he got the figure of S40m. The Mayor went on to say bow he had assessed this amount. The Minister for Agriculture said: 1 do not think you are far off the mark.' That is the situation that exists at the moment. 
I have raised this matter at this late hour because I know of the callous and indifferent atittude shown to people in need in these flood areas. The saying 'To hell with von, Jack. I am all right' is applicable not only in this Parliament but also in areas not far distant from Narrabri itself. I know of a young man employed by an insurance company in Tamworth who was sacked because he was held up one night and decided to slay and help his parents. He returned to work after some time had elapsed and when he gave his reason for being held up he was told that he knew the Hoods were coming and that if he thought his family was more in need of assistance than his employer then he had better leave. This is the situation that exists at the moment and I am bringing this matter up because I believe it is very important. 
I ask that urgent assistance be given to thos.:  who  are in need of unemployment relief and. of course, I am asking for the most sympathetic attitude to be taken in this field by departmental officers. Jobs are not available in the area. The cotton has been completely destroyed and the men who were working in that field are in need of assistance. I repeat that while the hour is late there are many men, women and children who are not sleeping soundly tonight in these flood towns. Over the last fortnight the floods have swept through these townships in many areas of the north west of New South Wales, and after the people have cleaned up their homes the floods have returned. In the Sydney 'Sun' tonight there is an article headed 'Towns Still Fighting Floods'. The article states: 

 Major flooding is continuing today in the north-western areas of New South Wales. The towns of Walgett, Wee Waa. Pilliga, Burren Junction and Collarenebri are isolated and some telephone lines are cut 
This is the situation at the moment and 1 appeal most sincerely to the Government to give immediate and substantial help. As regards the future let us have our engineers - the men who constructed our dams in the Snowy Mountains scheme - investigate this problem and try to advise us of a solution. There must be a solution to this problem. Too frequently do these flood tragedies take place, costing far too much in human lives and in the destruction of property. We must do everything possible now and pledge ourselves to make certain that these floods will not occur again. I ask the Government to do everything possible to help these people who are desperately in need. 
Has the Leader of the Government in the Senate seen statements to the. effect that the price of petrol is again to rise? In view of the Prime Minister's appeal to industry and to all sections of the community to maintain stability and to keep prices down, will the Minister ask the . Government to intercede with the oil companies with a view to preventing a further increase? As the Minister knows, the prices of oil and petrol were increased four or five months ago before the Parliament went into recess. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Air. In view of the Prime Minister's concern about inflation arid the cutting down of costs, I ask: Is the Minister in a position to advise what payment Australia is making to the United States of America for the parking and storage of Australia's 24 Fill fighter bombers in that country? Ft has been reported to be up to $1,700 a day. Does the Minister recall his reply to my question of 30th October last when he said that noone knew the cost of storage as it had yet to be worked out? Has this cost been worked out and can the Minister now advise the Senate of the cost of parking or storing these aircraft? If not, when will he be in a position to do so? 
-I move: 
That the Senate lake note of the statement. 
I  ask for leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
1 move: 
That the  Senate  lake note of the statement. 
I seek leave to make my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Tn view of the decision of the Senate on Tuesday last asking the Government to introduce immediate legislation to provide increases in the rates of social service payments to pensioners who are in necessitous circumstances, I ask the Leader of the Government: Can this urgent legislation to assist those in need be expected now or is this decision of the Senate to be ignored? What action is the Leader of the Government in the Senate  prepared to take to ensure that decisions of the Senate are given effect? Will the Government accept resolutions only when they are favourable and ignore all the others that are unfavourable as in the case of the export of merino rams, the site of the new and permanent parliament house and the sale of the Canberra Abattoirs? 
Without wishing to beg the question,  Mr President,  let me say that, in the light of what was said here on the day following the debate, and the ruling that you gave in response to a question asked by  Senator Murphy  no less, what we decided on Tuesday was to sit at 2.55 instead of 3 o'clock on Wednesday afternoon. In the process of deciding that we had a debate on social services; but let me repeat in direct response to  Senator Fitzgerald's  question as to what the Senate resolved to do that in fact the Senate resolved to sit 5 minutes earlier on the next day. 
I am not evading it. The next day, when we discussed another matter,  Senator Murphy  asked you,  Mr President,  for a ruling on this very subject. So there is no doubt about it. But, as 1 said at. the beginning, I do not want to beg the question. There was a general debate on the question of social services in which honourable senators expressed their views, but no definitive resolution in relation to the matter was carried. 
ls the Leader of the Government aware, that the executive of the Australian Council of Trade Unions is considering, a national 24-hour strike to bring to the Government's attention the plight and difficulties of pensioners? As about 1 million people in Australia are dependent upon pensions and the majority of them live in. ne.ar poverty, will the Minister bring to the.. attention of the Government the harsh effects that inflation with increased living costs, is having upon those in need? Will he request the Government to raise pensions . now and thereby avert industrial action by the trade union movement? Such action; would have the support of every fair minded person in Australia. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI do not want to misjudge the honourable senator, but I thought I heard him say that the Australian Council of . Trade Unions was considering a 24-hour, strike. If that is what he said I am amazed.. Being a simple soul I always thought, that, the function of the ACTU was to act in. the best interests of the trade union movement, and to try to find solutions to problems. I am amazed that somebody should suggest that the solution of the ACTU for the problem is to advocate a strike in the economic conditions that we are in today. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Services. Will the Government consider deleting or abolishing the term 'age pension', formerly named for many years 'old age pension' - both names archaic and insulting to many - and using the term 'senior citizen's pension or 'retired person's allowance? 
I ask the 
Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport whether in view of the tremendous number of deaths and serious accidents occurring weekly on the Australian roads and the ever increasing advertisement by car manufacturers of the increased power and speed of their cars, the Government has ever considered the need for placing governors to limit speeds on each car, perhaps to 65 miles an hour? Buses have such devices installed. Would the Minister not agree that speed is the killer, be the drivers youthful or those who had loo much to drink? Should not drastic measures be taken to save the lives of our people? 
Can the 
Minister for Air advise Hie Senate whether the Australian people will see flights of 4 Fill A aircraft next month? Is there any truth in reports that the Prime Minister overruled objections by both himself, the Minister for Air, and the former Minister for Defence on this matter and that the United States Air Force is now sending the Fill aircraft to Australia for the period 1st April to 6th April next? Alternatively, will the arrival of those aircraft in Australia be deferred until certain matters are determined in the Government parties? 
Did you object to that? 
I direct my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Will the statement that was made by the former Minister for Defence in the House of Representatives be made also in the Senate? If that will not be done will he advise whether, in view of the many conflicting statements that have been made, it is true that the Australian Army in Vietnam is in revolt against the Government's policy in relation to civil aid in that country? What civil aid work is being carried out in Vietnam? What is the reason for the dispute between the Department of Defence and the Army? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. In view of the serious warning given by the New South Wales Director of Health Services that many poliomyelitis vaccines - including, I believe, Salk vaccine - wane or lose their potency over the years, and that unless further immunisation is effected poliomyelitis could again become a threat to the people of Australia, I ask the Minister, who realises the danger of this dread disease: What is the Commonwealth Department of Health doing, or what is it able to do, to ensure that Australian parents are made aware of the warning? Are sufficient doses of the new 
Sabin vaccine available in Australia, particularly for children? Are municipal councils prepared to co-operate, as in the past, in further immunisation procedures? Will the Commonwealth Department of Health advise the Stale Departments of Health of its willingness to engage in a publicity campaign through the Press, radio, television and public notices so- that all Australian parents can be made aware of the serious danger of poliomyelitis to their families? 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for Health advise now or obtain from the Department of Health advice on which domiciliary nursing services are available free to pensioners in each State? If such services are not free will she advise the scale of fees charged to pensioners? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport. Is it correct that, after increasing liner cargo shipping freight rates from Britain and Europe to Australia by 12 per cent on the first of this month, the Australia to Europe shipping conference has now served on Austraiian exporters a demand for a return voyage surcharge of  5i  per cent? What is the Government doing to protect Australia's interests in this important matter of a completely dishonest demand by the shipping companies? 
J mentioned earlier in the debate that 1 had received a letter from the Nambucca Shire Council which intimated its eagerness to enter into the scheme. The letter I have was sent by the Shire Clerk to the Secretary of the Department of Public Works, Sydney. It reads: 
Council understands that Commonwealth legislation is being introduced to provide funds for flood mitigation programmes on coastal rivers and the Nambucca River has been excluded at this stage. It is understood that investigation of the valley is to be undertaken this year. Council seeks clarification on whether it will be eligible for capital works if the investigation reveals thai this is desirable, and of course, if the works as suggested are within Council's capacity to  meet  by way of its share of contribution. 
Your advices in this regard will be appreciated. 
I would like the Minister to inform me of the situation in relation to the Nambucca River because, as I mentioned earlier, siltation is one of the issues which concerns the whole of this area. If the Nambucca River is excluded it could have an effect on this plan. We are not pushing this. In a sense we are wanting advice. We want it placed on record that we are cognisant of the fact that the Nambucca Shire Council is anxious to know whether it can come into the scheme. It is of no good the Minister to say: 'If this is carried it will hold up the whole of the works.' All these things could hold up the whole of the works if the Minister for National Development or the Government itself got the sulks about the adoption of the amendment moved by the Opposition tonight. 
We want to see this work go on. We want to see progress. We want to see the 
Nambucca River involved in the way that the people desire. The minister says that the inclusion of the Bellinger River in the scheme could hold up the whole works and the scheme could go astray. This will not happen because at the present moment the Bellinger Shire Council feels that it cannot afford the money that would be involved. But 1 do want to place on record our desire to see the inclusion of the Nambucca River in the scheme. 1' therefore ask the Minister for his opinion on our desire to see that river included. 
May I be granted the privilege before commencing my speech of congratulating  Senator J.  R. McClelland whom I have known for a number of years on his appointment lo the Senate. He will certainly make a great contribution to this Parliament. 
Honourable senators - Hear! hear! 
The New 
South Wales Grant (Flood Mitigation) Bill is designed to grant financial assistance of up to S9m to the State of New South Wales for the purpose of flood mitigation works on certain rivers. Under the new national water resources development programme this money will be made available to assist with flood mitigation work on 1 1 coastal rivers in New South Wales. This programme was announced in October 1969. Under it the Commonwealth proposes allotting to the States SI 00m over a period of 5 years for rural water conservation and supply works, flood mitigation and water measurement over and above the States' own programme for this purpose. In June 1969 the Commonwealth Government provided assistance of S8m to New South Wales towards the cost of flood mitigation works on 6 coastal rivers. Those rivers have been announced and are known to this Parliament. They are the Tweed. Richmond, Clarence, Macleay, Hunter and Shoalhaven rivers. The new programme involves additional works on rivers included in the original programme but it has been expanded to include 5 further rivers. These are the Bellinger. Hastings, Manning, Hawkesbury and Moruya rivers. 
At the present moment the shire council of the area in which the Bellinger river is located is not terribly desirous of accepting this scheme. I mention that because there is another river which the Australian Labor Party would like to have included in the scheme. The area served by these 1 1 rivers is about I million acres and it has a population of approximately 500,000 people who will be affected in one way or another by the proposed programme. I am certain that all honourable senators will agree that money spent properly in this direction is a sound investment for Australia. We must do everything . possible to overcome the problems of flood and drought. This will be one of the greatest achievements our Parliament could strive to attain for the people, of. this nation. Whilst in another place we have expressed our full support for the Bill ss far as it goes we ask the Government to give serious consideration to expanding this work to include other rivers and areas throughout Australia. On behalf of the Opposition I move: 
At end of motion add but the Senate whilst welcoming the proposal for the purpose of flood mitigation works in New South Wales, is of opinion that the assistance offered is inadequate and should form part of a larger scheme to deal with national disaster and that, accordingly, a joint select committee of the Parliament should be appointed to inquire into the practicability of the establishment of a national disaster organisation.' 

 Mr President, you might recall that on 16th February 1971, the first night of this sessional period on the motion that the Senate do now adjourn, I drew attention to the flood difficulties and problems that existed in the north west of New South Wales and to the tremendous flood devastation in the area of the towns of Wee Waa and Narrabri. At that period the estimated cost of repairing flood damage was in the vicinity of $40m. I believe that a much greater and a more comprehensive programme must be undertaken than is contemplated in this legislation which will embrace the Namoi River at Narrabri and the rivers which flow into that system, namely, the Peel River at Tamworth and the Mooki at Gunnedah and further extensions to the Keepit Dam. The Darling River is the key to the flood dangers that presently face Tibooburra, White Cliffs, Wilcannia and the Broken Hill area. Probably some honourable senators present have visited flooded areas. I have here a copy of the 'Courier' published at Narrabri on 6th February last. It reported that flood waters had swamped north western New South Wales and 5 people had lost their lives. Damage to property estimated at tens of millions of dollars had been caused. Tibooburra, Wilcannia and sections of Broken Hill were flooded. I have no doubt that those areas will be mentioned again tonight. 
This Bill does not go far enough and that is why the Labor Party would like the Senate to consider the amendment I have moved. We do not wish to delay the passage of the Bill but we think it most important that its provisions be extended. It would be absurd to say that our proposal would take extra time to finalise. More is written in Australia about floods and droughts than about any other major matter of which I am aware. The National Library and almost every other library in Australia hold information published by world authorities on those subjects. Flood mitigation and water conservation go hand in hand. Are not some of the great men associated with the Snowy Mountains Authority still available to us to plan the future safety and security of this nation by avoiding national disasters? 
In the last few days I heard a radio report that an appeal is being conducted in the United Nations on the question of a world wide disaster plan. We are suggesting a national plan in our amendment, through the establishment of a national disaster organisation. Such an organisation would be invaluable in insuring against the effects of floods, droughts, fires and tidal waves. These disasters face Australia and the Labor Party in its amendment is anxious to take a positive step for the future. As a member of this Parliament in 1951 I was invited to join a party to visit the electorate of the late  Sir Earle  Page. While we flew over the area  Sir Earle  Page outlined his scheme to harness the rivers centring on Nymboida in the Grafton area. He had a great deal of knowledge of that locality. He issued a great number of pamphlets and plans about his scheme. At the time he was Minister for Health. Unfortunately, we did not hear htm enlarge on his scheme in the Parliament. I always wondered why his scheme, in which he so strongly believed, was not put into effect whilst he was Treasurer, in the tragic days of the depression.1 It was left to Frank McGuren, the honourable member for Cowper from 1961 to 1963, to advocate unceasingly Hood mitigation works in that area. 
In May 1963 1 and a party of parliamentarians travelled with Frank McGuren - a truly honourable and dedicated man - to talk with officers of the Macleay River County Council, the Tweed Shire Council and the Richmond River County Council about the effects of floods in that area. It is very pleasing to know that the work of Frank McGuren is bearing fruit. Damage costing untold millions of dollars has been caused through disasters such as the fires in Tasmania in 1967. Today I spoke to the Mayor of Grafton about flooding. In 1963 Frank McGuren said that in the preceding 18 years there had been 20 major floods in the Clarence River area alone. He detailed in many of his speeches in this Parliament how great had been the devastation of floods since 1931. In 1967 one of the biggest floods occurred in the history of flooding in the Macleay River and Clarence River areas. Fortunately flood mitigation works helped considerably to offset its effects. 
Whilst the measures to be financed by this legislation will have a great effect on flooding of the New South Wales coastal rivers, it does not go far enough for the rest of Australia. It would be remiss of me tonight if I were not to speak of the situation that faces this, nation. The Press has recently carried reports of flood crises in isolated country . towns. I have in mind Tibooburra. White Cliffs and the Broken Hill area, lt would be unjust and completely immoral not to consider the problems facing the .people of those areas. Honourable senators who have visited flooded areas appreciate the trials, tribulations, dangers and difficulties that these people encounter, lt is of no use to say that nothing can be done. Men can be sent to the moon. Great scientific advances have been made but. whenever we speak of doing something practical on behalf of our own people all the difficulties in the world are raised. 1 appeal to honourable senators not to be satisfied with the flood mitigation works planned for the coastal rivers of northern New South Wales. Such works are regarded as very important by my Party but I ask .the Senate to consider the advantages which would accrue from acceptance of our proposed amendment. 
 No, it is not. I have mentioned flooding of the Burdekin River and other Queensland rivers. We are not suggesting for one moment that flood problems are associated only with New South Wales. I am aware that Queensland also has flood problems 
That is right. We are talking about the whole of Australia. We want flood problems solved right throughout the nation. 1 am not making out a case only for New South Wales although I am fully conscious of the flood problems that exist in my State. I am making out a case for New South Wales but I also recognise the need for flood mitigation works in' other States. I remind honourable senators that my proposed amendment does not specify New South Wales. It slaves, in part: 
. accordingly, x joint select committee of the Parliament should be appointed to inquire into the practicability of the establishment of a national disaster organisation. 
Such an organisation would be involved throughout the length, and breadth of Aus tralia. In 1931 in a flood in Tasmania 14 lives were lost. In 1934 New South Wales had floods in various parts of the State almost continuously for 9 months. In that year Victoria had a flood in which 35 lives were lost and Queensland also was flooded. So was South Australia, where 2 lives were lost. In New South Wales in 1954 floods were again experienced, causing the loss of 22 lives and rendering about 10,000 people homeless. We ask that more be done than is being done at present. I referred earlier to tremendous losses in human lives, property and stock caused by floods. Serious production losses are also involved, the nature of which depends upon the type of area which is flooded. Floods result in the loss of employment in the towns and surrounding districts. I saw the aftermath of the recent flood in the Narrabri district. I have mentioned this matter in the Senate on several occasions. Disease is rampant following a flood. Rotting carcases come floating down the streams and the sewerage systems break down. It is almost unbelievable what happens, lt is almost impossible to describe the situation; one has to witness the actual happenings to realise this great tragedy. I wish to pay a tribute to the civil defence organisations in the various towns in which floods occur. No words or sentiments of mine would be able to express the full credit which is due to the men and women of the civil defence organisations. I also wish to express my thanks and appreciation to the Mayor of Narrabri, Alderman Heath, for the part that he and his assistants played during the recent flood in that area. 
The Australian Labor Party believes that support for its amendment will not hold up proceedings, although this is the argument which was used by the Government in the other place. The Australian Labor Party wants money to be made available without delay to the local government bodies that are in control of flood mitigation works. It is important that money be made available, lt is not the function of the Senate to hold up this work because unemployment exists in these towns and it is important that this money be made available to create the employment which is so necessary at the present time. During the Committee stage of the Bill the Australian Labor Party will move an amendment to clause 3 of the Bill to include the 
Nambucca River in the definition of prescribed areas. The honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  in the other place has given me a letter from the Shire  Clerk  of the Nambucca Shire Council expressing the Council's desire to be included in this scheme. In view of the importance of the Nambucca River and the danger of siltation affecting other rivers if it is not included in the scheme, I hope that the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton),  who represents the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  in this chamber, will appreciate the need, sense and justice of this request and will include this river in the proposal. I have been advised that there is no wish for the Bellinger River to be included in the scheme. The Minister may put forward the linethat inclusion of the Nambucca River would hold up the work, but this would have no greater effect than dropping the Bellinger River from the scheme. 
I was pleased to learn that the Minister for National Development intends tabling in the Parliament annually a report on the expenditure on flood mitigation and water conservation works and matters of this nature which are handled by his Department. If the Parliament had such information it would be in a better position to analyse what has been done and determine of what benefit these investments have been to the well-being of all Australians. I repeat that the Australian Labor Party supports the legislation so far as it goes. It commends what has been done up to the present moment, but it appeals to the Minister not to just let the matter go as it is at this stage but to investigate further the need for and the importance of this work in not only the north-west of New South Wales but also right throughout the length and breadth of Australia. The Minister sometimes shows a little bit of humanity in his makeup. 1 hope that he will accede to the request the Australian Labor Party has made in the form of an amendment. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Wood)  - Is the amendment seconded? 
M y question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. In view of statements made in recent days by the Treasurer and the exTreasurer about the possibility of increased taxation, can the Minister state what action is contemplated? Is there any intention on the part of the Government to introduce legislation to increase taxation before the Parliament goes into recess at the end of April? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister-in-Charge of Aboriginal Affairs. I ask the question in view of the remarks made at today's luncheon and also in view of the recent statement made by the Prime Minister that he and his Government abhor racism and that the Government is giving $12,000 to a national committee being established to combat racism and racial discrimination. What is being done in the Northern Territory, which is under Commonwealth administration, to ensure that proper award wages are paid to Aboriginals employed in the Territory? The Minister will recall that on 15th October last - almost 6 months ago - when one of the Estimates Committees was dealing with funds for Aboriginal advancement, as reported at page 253 of Hansard, the then 
Acting Minister, who was present with her departmental officers, slated: 
. quite often we believe the Aboriginals are nol being paid full award wages. 
I again ask in this year which is set aside to combat racial discrimination: What is being done by the Government to ensure that proper wages and conditions are received by our Aboriginal people? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Services. If the Commonwealth Government is serious about cutting its spending why does it not eliminate the embarrassing forms it sends to pensioners each year? Is the Minister aware that pensioners are asked 32 of the most personal questions on each form and that a couple receiving 2 different pensions get 4 such forms every year? Surely this must require a huge staff and add another burden and insult to pensioners. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Health. What action does his Department intend to take to correct the shocking neglect of Aboriginal children as shown by the research of the Queensland Director of Maternal and Child Services in that the Aboriginal infant mortality rate was up to 10 times the national average and the death rate of Aboriginal children aged between 12 months and 4 years was up to 17 times the overall Australian rate? I repeat: What is the Government doing to ensure that this shocking neglect of Australian Aboriginal children is dealt with immediately? 
It is unusual for me to be speaking so soon after the Minister for Health  (Senator Greenwood)  has introduced Ihe Bill. But this course has been followed upon agreement between the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  and the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy).  This Bill is due to come into operation as from 1st April 1971.  Senator Bishop  is to resume the debate on the Repatriation Bill and the Seamen's War Pension and Allowances Bill. The Opposition does not intend to delay the passage of these measures. I hope that our spirit of co-operation will be matched by Government supporters when we vote on the amendment which I shall now propose. I move: 
Al end of motion add:  but the Senate is of the opinion that - 
the increases proposed are inadequate: 
social service payments generally are inadequate to maintain an acceptable standard of living; 
steps should be taken immediately to eliminate poverty; 
a national superannuation system should be established and the means test eliminated: and 
pension payments should be a proportion of average weekly earnings adjusted annually'. 
The increase of 50c a week in the basic standard rate payable to single age. invalid and widow pensioners which is provided in the Bill will bring the new rate to S 16 a week. The increase of $1 a week for married couples will bring their combined pension rate to $28.50 a week. The maximum basic rate of widows without children will rise to S14.25 a week. The full increase of 50c will be payable to all pensioners who are receiving the maximum rate. But there a difference takes place. A provision is made to pay a portion of the 50c increase to pensioners whose means as assessed fall between $10 and $11 a week and to married pensioners where the combined means as assessed of husband and wife are between $17 and S19 a week. This is a most complicated system. It would cost more for departmental officers - whom I see in attendance and to whom 1 pay the highest tribute - to work this out than to pay the full pension. The Minister for Health has admitted grudgingly that the Government has decided that an increase in pensions is warranted to meet 'the increase in the price of consumer goods but it has refused to make any adjustment to dependants' allowances and has therefore deliberately reduced the living standards of many homes. 
Today dependent wives of pensioners receive $7 a week which is the same amount as they have received over the past 3 years. We all know of the great increases which have occurred in costs over that period. In 1951 the wife's allowance was $3 a week and the basic pension was $6 a week. Had the Government kept to the same basis, today those people would receive not S7 a week but $8 a week. Honourable senators must remember all the time that the Government boasts that the average weekly earnings are $84.80. When we are analysing and discussing pensions I think this should be foremost in our minds. It is amazing to find Government supporters trying to justify the 50c pension increase by a comparison with what happened over 20 years ago. Let me put the record straight. No-one on this side of the House has ever said that in 1949 pensioners were receiving an adequate pension. Far from it. In 1949 we were still recovering from the effects of the Second World War and we were rehabilitating our service men and women. We were returning them and the workers engaged in war industries to peace time employment. In that period there was no affluent society. Now we all recognise that we were lucky we survived the difficult periods we had gone through from 1939 to 1945. But that did not stop the Chifley Government. It gave to Australia the social service programme which was introduced as a result of a referendum. This was carried by 55 per cent of the people voting for the proposals and 45 per cent voting against the proposals put forward by the then Chifley Government. As has been said here on numerous occasions this was the forerunner of the great social services programme of Australia. 
On different occasions 1 have intimated that this Government was not happy about that referendum because 45 per cent of the people did not vote against proposals which would not have been possible unless there was a strong and solid opposition. That opposition came from supporters of the present Government in that period. The passing of this referendum allowed the Commonwealth Government to introduce many forms of social service legislation which otherwise would not have been possible. I ask honourable senators whether it is any wonder that the name of Ben Chifley is revered throughout Australia and will not be besmirched by anything which has been said in the other chamber or, in turn, which might b&lt;". said here at a later stage. The table which is attached to the Minister's second reading speech creates a lot of confusion, It creates some confusion in this House. I notice that the table has all sorts of headings. One such heading is Price Index for Quarter (1966-67 = 100).' We see from the table that in March 1971 the standard rate for a single pensioner is recorded at 1 14 points. The basic rate for the single person was 16. In the same period despite the fact that the married rate was $14.25 the new increased rate is still shown at 1 14 points. Is it any wonder that this table creates confusion, especially among those who have to live on the amount which is paid? 
The talk of the 1949 payment is a smoke screen to overcome Liberal Party promises. We all recall that that Party promised to put value back into the pound and abolish the means test. As a matter of fact it destroyed the national welfare fund which was set up by the Chifley Government for the purpose of abolishing the means test. With the concurrence of honourable senators I shall incorporate in Hansard a table which was issued by the Minister for Social Services in a reply to a question asked by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  in another place on 18th March. 
In this table we find that in 1949 the single age pension as a proportion ot average weekly earnings was 24 per cent. In October 1970 - it is stated that this is for the quarter ended September 1970 - the figure is 19.6 per cent. This table becomes quite confusing when we read it in conjunction with all the tables which have been introduced into the debate in another place. I think that even the Minister himself must regret the introduction of such a small amount as 50c which has necessitated such an attack in the other chamber against the trade union movement, its leaders, the arbitration system and everything which the Minister for Social Services could think of. I am pleased to note that the Minister for Health when introducing the Bill on behalf of the Minister for Social Services did not resort to that policy. 
Nobody is fooled by this inadequate pittance in this period of high living costs and inflation. This paltry increase of 50c is granted to appease or to calm pensioners. I sincerely believe that had it not been for the Australian Labor Party and our Leader,  Mr Gough  Whitlam, in moving a motion of want of confidence in the Government, the pensioners and the people who are desperately in need would not have received anything. They would have had to wait until the next Budget in August. They would not have received any increase until next October which is over 6 months away. It has been suggested that the 50c is a symbol to mark the accession of the new Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  to office. For the rest of the financial year the cost of this increase will be S5.5m. This is the amount the taxpayers are paying to give the new Prime Minister an extra boost. Personally I am glad - as 1 feel most honourable senators are - to see the pensioners gain this inrease, miserable as it is. But I certainly regret the neglect shown in other, social services such as the wife's allowance, child endowment, guardian's allowance, sickness and unemployment benefits and maternity allowance. People in receipt of these benefits have to live. 

<graphic href="047232197104061_31_0.jpg"></graphic>

Let us pause briefly and consider this period of 1970 and 1971 and the untold wealth of our great mineral finds. It was said recently in a booklet entitled theFar Eastern Economic Review' which I have in my possession that Australia is sitting on a gold mine. This is the great, affluent society in which we are operating at the moment. Obviously we do have a sort of gold mine because the Government can spend millions of dollars of theF- 1 1 1 aircraft, possibly$1,700 a day for the parking and storage of these aircraft in the United States, and some $400m to $500m ayear on the war in Vietnam. There is no reason why people should not talk so glibly of our present prosperity. 1 repeat that our average weekly earnings are $84.80. 
Is it any wonder that everyone is appalled that pensioners are denied proper justice and are called upon to surfer financially because of Government mismanagement, overspending and inflation? Increased charges for rent, bread, butter, milk, every food line, clothing and municipal rates, in fact every increase, affect our people who are in need. This is a moral issue to the Labor movement. Is it any wonder that the demand by the trade union movement for an increase of $5 a week is supported by practically every church leader throughout the Commonwealth and by practically every decent citizen? 
Not since the days of the depression 40 years ago has any government made pensioners the main sufferers as a result of its so called lack of finance. All of us vividly recall the humbug in speeches by Government supporters in reply to urgent requests and questions from a number of members of the Opposition who were pleading for benefits for those in need. We recall the statement by the former Treasurer who said that the economy was so finely balanced that an increase of 50c a week for pensioners would seriously affect it. Obviously that statement was nothing but a lot of utter nonsense. 
The Opposition will not deprive pensioners of this additional 50c a week. They are so desperate that they are eager to receive even small mercies. I assure honourable senators that we and the trade union movement generally believe that an increase of $5 a week should be paid so that pensioners can enjoy our affluent society as it is often called. Unfortunately it is not enjoyed today by our senior citizens and pensioners. 
The first 4 points of the Opposition amendment to this Bill are identical with those contained in the motion which I moved on behalf of the Australian Labor Party in the Senate on 22nd September 1970. Those 4 points were: 
the increases proposed are inadequate; 
social service payments generally are inadequate to maintain an acceptable standard of living; 
steps should be taken immediately to eliminate poverty; and 
a contributory national superannuation system should be established and the means test eliminated. 
That motion was carried by 26 votes to 22, a majority of 4, as shown at page 820 of Hansard of 23rd September 1970. There is nothing unusual in this Government's failing to take action to give effect to the wishes or decisions 'of the Senate. How long will the Senate continue to allow its decisions to be ignored? This policy has been continuing. I mentioned the vote taken on 23rd September 1970 and I now refer the Senate to a vote taken on 16th February of this year in respect of a debate on a matter of urgency, social service payments. The motion was moved by the Australian Democratic Labor Party supported by every member of the Australian Labor Parly, and was carried by 2S votes to 24, a majority of 4. I asked the Leader of the Government in the Senate when action would be taken in relation to that vote. I said: 
In view of the decision of the Senate on Tuesday last asking the Government to introduce immediate legislation to provide increases in the rales of social service payments to pensioners who are in necessitous circumstances, I ask the Leader of the Government: Can this urgent legislation to assist those in need be expected now or is this decision of the Senate to be ignored? What action is the Leader of the Government in the Senate prepared to take to ensure that decisions of the Senate are given effect? 
The Leader of the Government said that that decision had been effected. In his reply he said: 
Without wishing to beg the question,  Mr President,  let me say that, in the light of what was said here on the day following the debate, and the ruling that you gave in response to a question asked by  Senator Murphy  no less, what we decided on Tuesday was to sit al  2.55  instead of 3 o'clock on Wednesday afternoon. ' 
The Senate debated this matter of public urgency for hours and made a determination. The Government then said that it had accepted the decision. It argued that the vote did not represent condemnation of the Government or a demand upon the Government. I believe that it was. The Democratic Labor Party obviously must have thought along the same lines, otherwise its members, with ours, would not have continued debating this matter for hours and would not have voted as they did. The Government claimed that the vote meant that the Senate was required to meet 5 minutes earlier the following day. This is the sort of nonsense that goes on in this Senate at the present time. 
That is not the only matter that leads to the Senate being regarded as quite a joke. An amendment I moved in the debate on the New South Wales Grant (Flood Mitigation) Bill was carried on 16th March of this year by 28 votes to 24. It called for the establishment of a committee to deal further with flood problems in that State. Other similar matters 1 can recall relate to repatriation Bills, the site of the new and permanent parliament house, the sale of the Canberra abattoirs and the sale of merino rams, f ask honourable senators: How long will this continue? How long is this House to be ignored? It is rapidly becoming a joke. We have an opportunity now of destroying the gulf between the Executive and the Parliament. I request all honourable senators to support the Opposition's amendment. I mentioned earlier that we voted and came to a. determination previously in respect of 4 of these matters. We feel that the fifth point in our amendment is quite justified. 1 hope that honourable senators will accept our proposition and make a determination in respect of these proposals. 
It was our intention to refer this matter of social services to a select committee of the Senate. However it was thought generally that this may not be an acceptable proposition because we have so many committees at the moment and we were advised of 2 more today. It is our intention to refer to the Senate Standing Committee on Health and Welfare this question of all aspects of poverty in accordance with a motion yet to be resolved by the Senate. There is also the matter of the proposed reference of a matter adjourned from 2nd November 1970. We hope that that question will be dealt with when it comes before the Senate. We believe that we must know the extent of poverty in Australia. It is the humanitarian wish of every person in the Labor movement to rid Australia of this grave problem. Australia, the wealthiest nation in the Southern Hemisphere, should be rid of the great menace of poverty and hunger. This is one of the cardinal principles upon which the Australian Labor movement was founded. 
It is believed that there are some 60,000 families which are ill-fed, ill-housed and ill-educated and that there are over 1 million people living in real poverty. The injustice of poverty in a society of plenty should be repugnant to all. A great Labor spokesman, Eugene Debbs, said: 'With all my heart I protest against a system in which the lap dogs of the rich are socially superior to the children of the poor'. The policy of members of the Australian Labor Party is to eliminate poverty. There is poverty in Australia and when one is engulfed it is almost impossible to get out of it. We hope that ali honourable senators will support our amendment. We likewise hope that they will support the other items appearing on the business paper when we deal with them. 
We believe that this is an important amendment. If implemented it could do much to right many of the injustices that are suffered by a lot of people in our community. An investigation by the Standing Committee on Health and Welfare - later we shall ask honourable senators to support a proposal for a reference to that Committee - would prove of benefit. At present the Committee is "dealing with matters related to physically and mentally handicapped children. Before the session ends - as we believe it will ' by the end of this month - we hope to bring down a report on that matter. The Committee then will be free to handle the reference which we suggest and to present' 'a report to the Senate which will show 'the degree of poverty which exists in  our midst. I ask the Senate to support  the amendment which we have proposed because I believe that it could do much to help those who are in need. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Lawrie)  - Order! Is the amendment seconded? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Health. In view of promises made by his predecessor as Minister for Health that he intended to institute an inquiry into the means of including paramedical services in the health services, with special emphasis on optometry, can the Minister advise whether this inquiry has been commenced or completed? If it has, when will its findings be made known? 
-I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate: 
In view of the financial difficulties at present facing farmers and graziers throughout Australia will the Government arrange for the Commonwealth Banking Corporation or the Reserve Bank of Australia to direct or request all trading banks to extend the terms of the present loans to graziers at just and reasonable interest rates to 25 years instead of the present 8 years maximum? I also ask the Minister: Why wait until the man on the land is finished financially before making long term finance available to farmers and graziers? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONIt is a fact that in the primary industry sector there is a concessional rate of interest that is fixed in certain categories. The honourable senator is putting a proposition in thefield of Government policy. AllI can do is refer his proposals to the Government through ' the avenue of the Treasurer. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Housing, who administers the 
War Service Homes Division. Will the Minister look into the problems involved in applications by single ex-service women for war service homes, with a view to having any anomalies rectified? I draw his attention to the case of a single nursing sister who served for over 12 months during World War II in New Guinea but has been advised that she is not eligible to receive a grant for the purchase of a war service home as she is not married, is not about to marry and has no dependants. 
f enter this debate because of the concern of the Australian Labor Party for people in need. Although the Australian Labor Party has governed this country for less than 17 years since federation 70 years ago, it has pioneered the vast majority of social services and benefits received by Australians. The Australian Labor Party has pioneered practically all forms of social service legislation despite its relatively short period of office. We are aware of the problems confronting parents of large families, and particularly the problems of mothers. I listened with great attention to the speech delivered with some degree of sincerity by  Senator Byrne.  He referred to the culpability of the Federal Government in allowing child endowment rates, particularly those for 3 or more children, and maternity allowances, to deteriorate in real value to such an extent that a family obtains no great assistance from the receipt of such payments. I go along with that view. 
Certainly my own Party right throughout its ranks has shown great concern since its formation to fight for concessions in all forms of social service including child endowment. In this so-called affluent society unless both father and mother are earning, the benefits of the ordinary working class are very limited. I appreciate that it is difficult for Government supporters to realise that. They come from wealthy groups. They represent wealthy organisations. So, it is very difficult for them, in view of the affluence in which they live, to understand the situation that confronts the ordinary family, particularly the family with more than 2 or 3 children. Knowing the poverty that exists in our community, we have always thought along these lines. 
The mover of this motion.  Senator Byrne,  spoke with some feeling. But unfortunately - I repeat 'unfortunately' - the hypocrisy of the whole show is apparent from the fact that if this motion is carried it will mean very little. In fact it will mean only that we will adjourn until tomorrow at 10.55 a.m. or that we will come back 5 minutes earlier tomorrow. That is all this motion means. I repeat that it is hypocrisy. 1 abhor this type of nonsense, although I have respect for the man who moved the motion as 1 served with him in the period prior to 1955 and 1 know of his support for proposals we have put forward in this chamber in recent weeks, particularly the proposal to investigate the problems of physically and mentally handicapped people, especially children, in Australia. I am happy to say that we hope, in the very near future and before the Parliament adjourns, to bring down an interim report on this matter. 1 believe that it will be of value to those people who are in need if the Government is prepared to act upon it. 

 Senator Byrne went on to say that this is one of a number of motions which members of his Party have been responsible for introducing over recent weeks. He referred to motions on social service payments, superannuation schemes and now child endowment. When the urgency motion in relation to providing increased rates of social service payments to pensioners and others in necessitous circumstances was carried, I waited for a time, wondering what the Government was doing and what action would be taken by the Parliament. Then I raised the matter with the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson).  I asked, in effect: In view of the fact that the Senate has carried this resolution, what action will be taken?' Much to my surprise he said, in effect: 'We have honoured everything that was decided. On Tuesday we decided to sit at 2.55 instead of 3 o'clock on Wednesday afternoon. In the process of deciding that we had a debate on social services; but let me repeat in direct response to  Senator Fitzgerald's  question as to what the Senate resolved to do that in fact the Senate resolved to sit 5 minutes earlier on the next day'. That is what we are doing now. We are deciding whether to sit 5 minutes earlier tomorrow. This is the nonsense that is going on. 
I want to bring the members of this little group back to the real situation. This Government is here today because of their support.  Senator Greenwood,  in making his contribution, paid tribute to them and thanked them. They are the people who are responsible for keeping the Labor Party out of government. They are the people who do not want a Labor government. This is the nonsense they are going on wilh. As  Senator Kennelly  said the other day, here is the opportunity for them - the people in the centre group, the people who make possible a Labor government or make possible a Liberal government. They occupy a most important position. No legislation could be passed by this Parliament if it was not supported by them. And they stand up here and make all this hullabaloo. 
On this question of child endowment I have had the opportunity to go through policy speeches and our 'Platform, Constitution and Rules'. They are studded with information on what we intend to do when we become the government, as we did when we were the government. Honourable senators opposite have been in government for 22 years without exception or without opposition. For almost 17 years of that period - since 1955  -  the members of the Democratic Labor Party have made it possible for them to be in government. Our Platform, Constitution and Rules' continues. In his policy speeches  Mr Gough  Whitlam has stated what we will do in the fields of social services, child endowment, housing and so on. The same applies to the policy speeches delivered by  Dr Evatt  as Leader of our Party. In 1961 this Government was elected with a majority of one as a result of the support of the DLP and, in the electorate of Moreton, the help of Communist Party preferences. 
A unity ticket, as my colleague says. At that time we put forward proposals in the policy speech delivered by  Mr Arthur  Calwell. He said: 
Child endowment rales have not been changed since the Menzies Government came to power, although the first child has been endowed since 1950. 
This was in 1961. He continued: 
Tn that time prices have risen by more than 100 per cent. 
Labor will immediately legislate for these rates - for the first child 10s per week; for tha second 17s 6d; and for each additional child 1 per week. Labor's policy proposes that child endowment be adjusted in accordance with living costs. 
Yet the people on my left, who talk so glibly at the present time about what they want to see done, proudly claim that they were the people who were responsible for Labor's defeat at that election. I say once again that it was the Labor Government of 
New South Wales under J. T. Lang which introduced child endowment. Child endowment has been an issue of ours right from the early days. Labor introduced it in 1927. 
lt was introduced by the Labor Government of New South Wales. It was also a Labor government which, per medium of the social services referendum which was supported by Labor and opposed by the present Government parties one of which called itself by a different name at that time, made possible most of the social services legislation that we have had here over the period since that referendum was carried in 1.946. So, we are very proud of the work we have clone and the position for which we stand at present, lt is no good using the catchcry that no-one is standing for, working for or desirous of doing anything on behalf of those in need. The Australian Labor Party is the party that stands for those people. If the Labor Party had been in government over the last 22 years we would not have the sorry situation that exists at present. 
The main difficulty which the people are experiencing at present is the tremendous poverty that exists in our midst. Despite all the talk that is going on, the DLP would not do anything about it because, as  Senator Greenwood  has just said to the members of that Party: 'You support our war programme. You support the great defence project that is going on in Vietnam. You support the amount of money that is being spent on the Fill. Therefore we cannot be expected to do any more'. We would do something in this field. In doing so we would give assistance to those in need because we are the spokesmen for those who, we recognise, are in want and desire something at the present time. 
We will support anything at all that is for the wellbeing of those who are in need. The only objection that we have to this motion is that the people who are putting it forward are doing so with such hypocrisy that they do not really mean it. At the present moment they are prepared to put forward a proposal that means one thing, namely, 
12668/71- 5.- 139) 
that when we adjourn we will come back tomorrow 5 minutes earlier. If they want benefit to accrue to those who are in need, their rightful place is in support of the Labor Party. If they want to put over this nonsense about giving preferences to somebody else they cannot start to cry and scream when this Government which they are condemning at the present moment is not doing what is required for people who are in need. The Government spurns those honourable senators. It hates them. It has no damn time for them. But the fact is that those honourable senators are quite happy at the present moment because they are keeping out of government the Labor Party which will do what is desired for people who are in need. It was the Labor Party which pioneered all forms of social services from the days of the old age pension in 1910 when Deakin was leader of the government. He worked with Watson who was the leader of the Labor Party. Support was given to the liberals of the time on the basis that they would introduce old age pensions. 
It is going back to 1910. 
I am supporting the resolution. I am supporting everything which has been said in condemnation of the Government and everything which has been said to improve the conditions of and give benefits to those people who are in need. That is the policy of our Party. That is the policy on which we stand and will stand at the next general election. We have stood for that at every election over a period of time in which the Democratic Labor Party has been responsible for keeping Labor out of government and robbing the people of the benefits about which it is talking so glibly at the moment. 
Can the Minister representing the Prime Minister advise the Senate or secure information on the requirement for an employee of a Commonwealth department, the Commonwealth Bank or a Commonwealth instrumentality when he or she receives endorsement as a political candidate for a Federal or State election? When would it be necessary for the employee to hand in a temporary resignation and if not elected when would he or she be able to resume his or her normal duties? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI understand that under the Public Service Act the practice is for staff to resign at least 1 month before the date on which nominations for the election close. On resignation the person ceases to be a public servant but, if he is not elected, he may within 2 months after the declaration of the result of the election apply for reinstatement. Sections 47C and 82B of the Public Service Act are the references to this aspect. I have not been informed, but I shall seek information relating to the situation in respect of employees of banks and other Commonwealth instrumentalities. When I have that information I shall make it available to the honourable senator. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service. In view of the agreement decided upon at the National Labour Advisory Council meeting last week on the payment of union fines under outdated legislation, and subsequently supported by the  Chairman  of ARC Industries Ltd, will the Ministers involved announce their acceptance of this agreement and not continue with an attitude which could provoke a national strike to secure a political advantage and which could create the atmosphere for an early election before the Government may or will have to introduce more stringent credit restrictions and controls? 
Can the Leader of the Government in the Senate advise me now, or can he have a statement pre  pared, on the progress made in response to the Prime Minister's austerity appeal to the nation to cut costs? Can he advise us, or can he seek information, about Government expenditure in grants to the States and other Government bodies since that appeal? I also ask him to include, in any statement he may make, known or proposed increases in doctors' and dentists' fees, hospital costs and private school fees, and increases by State bodies including the Metropolitan Water Sewerage and Drainage Board in Sydney whose rates, it is suggested, are to go up by 40 per cent in Sydney and Wollongong? What benefits to the ordinary citizen of Australia have resulted from the appeal by the Prime Minister? Would it be true to say that inflation has increased further since that appeal? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI shall direct the honourable senator's question to the Treasurer. I am sure that the depth of the question and all its implications will involve tremendous research in order to provide an answer. All I can say is that I will undertake to refer the honourable senator's question to the Treasurer. It is a question that canvasses projected or possible increases in rates, etc. In fact it canvasses almost every conceivable thing. I will leave it to the Treasury to see what sort of an answer the honourable senator can be given. 
Could the Leader of the Government in the Senate advise what action has been taken or is to be taken by the Government to give effect to the amendment which I moved on behalf of the Australian Labor Party to the New South Wales Grant (Flood Mitigation) Bill on 16th March 1971, approximately 6 weeks ago, which in effect stated that the Senate is of the opinion that the assistance offered is inadequate and should form part of a larger scheme to deal with national disasters and that, accordingly, a joint select committee pf the Parliament  should be appointed to inquire into the practicability of the establishment of a national disaster organisation? The amendment was carried by the Senate by 28 votes to 24. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONIt is true, as the honourable senator said, that the Senate carried an amendment which expressed to the Government a view about the matter. I will ascertain from the relevant Minister what regard he will give to the amendment. 
 I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens , of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That the Australian Council's report on the needs of State education services has established serious deficiencies in education. 
That these can be summarised as lack of classroom accommodation, desperate teacher shortage, oversized classes and inadequate teaching aids. 
That the additional sum of one thousand million dollars is required over the next five years by the States for these needs. 
That without massive additional Federal finance the State school system will disintegrate. 
That the provisions of the Handicapped Children's Assistance Act 1970 should be amended to include all the country's physically and mentally handicapped children. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: ... 
Ensure that emergency finance from the Commonwealth will be given to the States for their public education services which provide schooling for seventy-eight per cent of Australia's children. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science aware of protests by parents and citizens' organisations and of the private petitions presented to this Parliament from thousand of residents of New South Wales on the conditions existing in government schools? Is he aware of the financial difficulties that are encountered by private schools in that State and in other States in all grades of education - technical, secondary and primary? Can the Minister advise what plans the Government has in view to overcome the problems facing private as well as government schools? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Services. I ask: Will the Minister ensure that the reasonable claims of the Association of Civilian Widows are placed before the Minister for Social Services and Cabinet before the next Budget is decided so that justice can be given to civilian widow pensioners and their children? The claims are that an education allowance be paid to children of civilian widow pensioners, that B class widows receive the standard rate of pension and that the ceiling limit of $520 per year permissible income for single widow pensioners be raised forthwith. 
 As a member of the Standing Committee on Health and Welfare J concur with the remarks of the  Chairman, Senator Dame  Ivy Wedgwood, about the report presented today. I feel that it will prove to be a very valuable report. I also wish to place on record the Committee's appreciation of the work of  Senator Dame  Ivy Wedgwood as  Chairman  of the Committee. Although she is retiring from the Senate I feel that her name will long be remembered through her association with a number of Senate committees. She mentioned several, but there are others. I believe that when the report on mentally and physically handicapped people is read and discussed it will be found that it contains some very worthy recommendations. 
I am certain that  Senator Dame  Ivy Wedgwood's name will always be remembered in connection with this work. 
I also pay a. tribute to  Dr Colin  Campbell, Secretary of the Committee, and to his efficient assistants. As the  Chairman  stated, the Hansard staff helped considerably in preparing the document presented to the Senate today. This is the first report presented under the new Senate committee system. It is an immense report, of 100 pages. Every honourable senator should be very pleased that the report has been brought down in such good time. I conmend the report to honourable senators and members and I hope that the Government will endorse its recommendations, for I feel sure many thousands of men, women and children who are handicapped in so many ways - 'I have in mind, too, families who have the major responsibility of caring for their loved ones who are handicapped - will gain great assistance when the recommendations in the report are acted upon. 
Governments have a reputation for moving slowly in providing benefits. About 16 years ago with  Senator Anderson,  as he was then, I requested from  Sir Robert  Menzies, the Prime Minister of the day, help for handicapped people. It is true that government benefits have been granted since that date, but I sincerely believe that much more can and will be done when the recommendations contained in the report are put into effect. Great assistance can also be given to dedicated people such as teachers, members of the medical profession, hospital staffs and all associated with the rehabilitation of handicapped persons. I realise that the report will be placed under the very keen scrutiny of the Minister for Health, the Government and government departments, and many organisations which provide aid in many ways to the ill and infirm members of the community. 
Can the 
Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation advise the Senate whether his colleague has received the 1971 request to the Government by the Returned Services League for increases in repatriation benefits in the forthcoming Budget? Will Cabinet discuss the request before bringing down the Budget? I remind the Minister that the Senate on 7th April - 4 weeks ago - carried an amendment by 25 votes to 20, as follows: 
But the Senate is of opinion that - 
The pension rate for the T. and P. I. exservicemen, the general rate pensioners and war widows should not have been allowed to decline notwithstanding the proposed increases, in relation to average weekly earnings. 
Will the Minister assure the Senate that these matters will be thoroughly considered by the Government before the Budget is produced in this Parliament next August? 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for the Navy seen a statement by the New South Wales Minister for Lands,  Mr Lewis,  that it was ridiculous and anachronistic to retain the 
Royal Australian Navy mothball fleet in Sydney Harbour? Does the Minister have any plan for removing this unsightly fleet to other moorings? 
Is the Minister representing the Treasurer aware that municipal councils in the Sydney metropolitan area, supported by the Local Government Association of New South Wales, are advising ratepayers that they are paying 12 per cent too much in the form of rates due principally to the fact that the Commonwealth Government is not providing sufficient funds or grants for roads? A Woollahra Council circular to ratepayers stated: 
This year, the Commonwealth Government put up the petrol tax by 3c per gallon, but are they giving any of this to New South Wales for roadworks? No. 
Will the Government further examine this position and take the financial burden off municipal councils which can then give assistance to the overtaxed ratepayers within New South Wales? 
In the first place, when the honourable senator talks in terms of rates he should state the type of rates to which he is referring. For instance, the Commonwealth Aid Roads Agreement is administered by the States through various departments. In New South Wales it is done through the Department of Main Roads and the Local Government Department. Some distinction must be made between the types of roads concerned such as arterial roads, main roads and urban roads. There is in the schedule a whole series of different classifications. It is wrong to draw a broad canvas as  Senator Fitzgerald  seemed to do. As to the ordinary situation faced by local government bodies, they are in the same position as all other governments. They get their revenue from rating as well as certain moneys which are conveyed to them by the State Governments which in turn make representations for assistance to the Commonwealth Government in the Loan Council and the Premiers Conference. 
I do not think one can isolate local government, as  Senator Fitzgerald  has tended to do, on the basis of a pamphlet. I answered questions on this point last week. I think from  Senator Devitt.  Local government is having problems with its rating system. They are serious problems which should be subjected to very close scrutiny. But basically their revenue other than from rating still comes from the State Governments which in turn make their bid for allocations which they can make to local government, including shire and municipal councils, at the Premiers Conference and the Loan Council. 
I ask the 
Minister for Health whether he has seen the statement by the Chief Executive Officer of Sydney Hospital that if the Commonwealth paid a full subsidy for pensioner patients the hospital would be able to meet present increased costs? Is it true that the Commonwealth subsidises pensioner beds at the rate of $5 a day? Is the Minister aware that the hospital claims that each pensioner bed patient costs $25 a day and that pensioner treatment costs at Sydney Hospital amounted to $800,000 last year? Although the Minister as a new Minister is not to blame, I ask him whether he regards the $5 a day payment as a miserable pittance. Will he take immediate action to rectify this paltry daily amount paid by the Commonwealth to the State for pensioner bed patients and thereby allow Sydney Hospital to charge just fees to its other patients? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Housing. Will the Commonwealth confer with the States to end the racketeering that is taking place in land prices, particularly as Commonwealth finance plays an important part in home building? Is the Minister aware that the Sydney Press, at present, is exposing this dishonest practice, pointing out that a handful of multi-million dollar development companies are carving up what is left of Sydney's home building land? No doubt a similar position exists in other States.  I  ask the Minister: With a view to protecting thousands of home seekers throughout Australia, will the Commonwealth Government act with the States in an attempt to destroy this pernicious practice which affects mainly the young marrieds and the new citizens of this country? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Air. Before the Senate goes into recess could the Minister advise the present position regarding the purchase of the Fill aircraft? Is it true that so far Australia has paid $228m to the United States of America as a deposit on the 24 Fill fighter bombers? In view of the many difficulties, including the fact that 18 crashes have occurred with this aircraft, would the Australian Government be further financially committed over and above the $228m should our 3-man Royal Australian Air Force mission, in Washington decide to cancel the order for the plane or would we be entitled to some refund? If so, how much? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Health. In view of the tributes he paid yesterday to the South Australian Prices Commissioner, is the Minister aware that the South Australian Commissioner is likely to investigate the increases in doctors' fees which were agreed upon by the Federal Government and the Australian Medical Association. In view of the fact that governments throughout Australia accept the prices fixed by the South Australian Prices Commissioner in so many fields, can the Minister advise what action will be taken by the Government if it is found, after full investigation, that the increases in doctors' fees are excessive? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Health. Has the Minister seen, or had his attention drawn, to statements in the Press that many people are requesting information on where to find doctors who are charging the common fee? I ask the Minister this question, which the Press has also posed: Will the Minister or his Department, which should have the facts, publish either in the Press or by way of a display of notices in post offices or government buildings, a list of doctors who are charging the common fee? 
I ask the 
Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation whether there is any truth in the claim made by an official of the Returned Services League at yesterday's 
RSL symposium at Dubbo that the Federal Government is betraying national servicemen returning from Vietnam. The official said that when the national servicemen are discharged the Government merely sloughs them off as a snake sheds its skin. He said that there is a lack of consideration for Vietnam ex-servicemen in business and agricultural loans, vocational training, pensions, repatriation and war service homes. In view of these serious allegations will the Minister investigate these charges and rectify any matters where justice is denied to Vietnam ex-servicemen? 
Has the Minister for Civil Aviation seen Press statements that the United State of America will cancel certain flights by Qantas Airways Ltd? Is this true? If so, what action is the Government taking to protect the nation's airline Qantas? 
I ask the 
Leader of the Government in the Senate: As the report of the Standing Committee on Health and Welfare on mentally and physically handicapped persons in Australia was introduced into this Parliament on 5th May last with much acclaim and support, and as this matter refers to the administration of a number of Ministers, will the report be read by those Ministers and the respective departments? Will the recommendations contained in the report, particularly those concerned with finance, be fully considered by Cabinet before the 1971-72 Budget is introduced into the Commonwealth Parliament? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONIt is axiomatic that when a report is put down in this place the relevant departments have regard to it and give it consideration. Once a report is put down, with all the prestige and responsibility of the Senate, it has to be taken into the relevant departments and given consideration. That consideration starts at the top and goes down through the departments concerned. The Minister concerned has to give consideration to whether or not he will report to Cabinet his judgment on what can be done about the recommendations in the report. In that way the processes of government work to give consideration to any recommendations that are made. Tt will be a decision of government as to if, how and when any recommendation made is brought to the Parliament for consideration. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry. Has the Minister any intention of replying to the loud-mouthed Yanks, both United States Government spokemen and the Press, who have been very vocal against Australia in  so  many fields over the past week? Will he inform them that in addition to our troops in Vietnam, without foreign or Marshall aid the balance of trade between our two countries has favoured the United States by over $2,400m during the past 5i years - this excluding the Fill transaction and the huge profits made by American companies investing in Australia? 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  The honourable senator will come to his question. 
Can the Minister advise what is being done to defend Australia's name against such attacks? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Does the statement of the 
Minister for Foreign Affairs that Taiwan's place in the United Nations in the name of China for the past 25 years has been somewhat fictional mean that the Australian Government will now officially support China's admission to the United Nations? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Services. In view of the many church appeals by all denominations for winter relief for the poor, stressing particularly the needs of deserted wives and children, will the Minister appoint within his Department in each State a representative in the form of an ombudsman with the finance and power to act immediately with church or relief organisations to give assistance to any persons, particularly women and children, found to be suffering from hunger, cold or poverty during this coming winter? 
I ask the Minister representing the Treasurer whether he can advise what taxation concessions or deductions are allowed in respect of money expended on television advertisements? I refer principally to the shocking TV advertisements on toilet tissues, the employment of children's choirs with their tra-la-la and the licking of dog food from fingers and dinner plates. I know that extremely attractive women and children are employed. If the Minister does not have such information could he secure the scale of taxation allowances and deductions allowed in respect of television advertising because I think it is repugnant to watch such advertisements and it becomes more so when one realises that  we are helping to pay for the advertisements through forgoing taxation which would otherwise be collected from the firms involved. 
Is the Minister for Civil Aviation aware of the concern felt by licensed aircraft engineers, their association and air travellers about the changes proposed to be made in the Air Navigation Orders so that persons other than qualified licensed aircraft engineers can certify as to aircraft maintenance? Realizing the Minister's concern about air safety and his desire to protect Australia's great name in this field, I ask him whether he will ensure that maintenance work on all aircraft is certified to by qualified aircraft engineers and that future employment of these licensed aircraft maintenance engineers and apprentices in this industry is guaranteed. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Civil Aviation and is supplementary to one I asked previously in reference to licensed aircraft engineers. Their association has before it the orders regarding future maintenance certificates for aircraft. Not having heard from the Department, is the Minister,  as  he claims, quite satisfied that everything  is  in order? I am satisfied that that is not the case. I ask therefore: Are the Minister and the Department still open for adjustment on these orders from the Association? 
 I join with other honourable senators in expressing my congratulations to  Senator Prowse  on his elevation to the very high office of  Chairman  of Committees. Although he has never occupied the position of Temporary  Chairman  of Committees, I know that he has performed very successfully and wisely as a member of numerous committees of this Parlia ment. I wish him well in the discharge of his new duties. I recognise, of course, that impartiality is important and I believe that in this respect  Senator Prowse  will distinguish himself as did his predecessors,  Senator Drake-Brockman  and  Senator Bull.  If he does he will have the complete cooperation of the Opposition. 
asked the 
Minister representing the Minister for the Navy, upon notice: 
Has the Minister seen the statement by the New South Wales Minister for Lands,  Mr Lewis,  that it was 'ridiculous and anachronistic' to keep  the Royal Australian Navy mothball fleet in Sydney Harbour? 
Does the Minister have any plans for removing this unsightly fleet to other moorings? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Health, relates to the report of the Standing Committee on Health and Welfare on mentally and physically, handicapped persons in Australia that was tabled in this chamber on 5th May of this year, which is over 6 months ago. I ask: What has the Government done to give effect to any of the recommendations contained in that report? If no action has been taken, when does the Government intend to act upon those recommendations? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONIt is true that such a report was put down in this chamber. I would not challenge the honourable senator's timing as I think it would be fairly right. It is equally true that a critical examination of the report is being made in the Department of Health insofar as its contents relate to the Department's activities. It is equally true that at my instigation an inter-departmental consideration of the various aspects of that report is going on at present. I would not like to say that a report on that consideration will be put down before the end of this session. I think to do that would be to pay lip service to the. value of the report, which is a very comprehensive document covering a very wide range of issues which will affect questions of major policy in not only my Department but also lots of other departments. So I cannot say categorically when and how the report will be dealt with. I can only give an assurance that it is being critically examined at the present time. 
asked the Minister representing the Ministerincharge of Tourist Activities, upon notice: 
In view of the serious shortage of first class hotel accommodation in Australia, particularly in Sydney, will the Government give immediate consideration to the following of numerous overseas examples, and establish a number of such hotels in suitable centres, so that Australia may not be deprived of valuable overseas tourist income. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Services, upon notice: 
How many applications for widows' pensions have been refused in each of the last 5 years under the provisions of each of paragraph (1) (a) and paragraph (1) (b) of section 62 of the Social Services Act. 
How many applications for age pensions have been refused in each of the last 5 years under the provisions of each of paragraph (a) and paragraph (b) of section 22 of the Social Services Act. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Civil Aviation. In view of the fact that money has been made available by the Commonwealth to save workers' jobs throughout Australia, will the Minister intervene to stop the dismissal, announced during the past few days, of employees of Qantas Airways Ltd?- 
asked the 
Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Will the Minister arrange for an open inquiry into negotiations between the Department of Civil Aviation and airlines operating within and from Australia as suggested on 1 November 1971 by the New South Wales Chief Secretary and Minister for Tourism,  Mr Willis. 
Will the Minister take particular steps to end the system of parallel timetabling by the domestic airlines, which is directly opposed to the interests and convenience of the public. 
Seantor COTTON - The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
The honourable senator is presumably referring to the decision by the Tourist Ministers Council, comprising Tourist Ministers representing all of the Stales and Territories of Australia, taken al Port Moresby in July 1971, toask the Commonwealth Government to establish a commission under an independent  chairman  to investigate and report upon the most desirable Australian international and domestic civil aviation policies. In his address to the 41 st Congress of the American Society of Travel Agents in Sydney,  Mr Willis  made reference to this decision, and his remarks were reported in the press on 1 November. There have of course been many developments in the lew fare and charter flight area since the Port Moresby meeting in July 1971 and the resolution adopted at that time will no doubt be assessed against the background of these developments. At this stage no request for an inquiry has been put to the Commonwealth Government. 
The question of parallel timetables is of particular interest to me, and I will continue to do what I canto ensure that the interests of the travelling public are adequately served. The airlines arc well aware of my desire that, wherever practicable, the paralleling of services, at particular times of the day or on particular days of the week, should be avoided as a matter of principle. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
Is the Minister aware that many English classes, which have been conducted in New South Wales for new citizens coming to Australia, have been closed due to the lack of finance; if so, will the Minister arrange the necessary finance to recommence these classes. 
asked the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Is it  a  fact that Australian insurance companies are rewriting household policies to include damage caused by the sonic boom of the Concorde supersonic airliner. If so, does this indicate that the insurance companies have no faith in assurances that the Concorde will be operated so as to preclude any possibility of property damage. 

 Senator COTTON- The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
I have no information indicating that household insurance policies are being rewritten to include damage caused by sonic boom. Inquiries are being made with the Council of Fire and Accident Underwriters on the matter, and I will arrange to see that the information is recorded when it becomes available. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What are the qualifications for membership of the Medical Benefits Fund of Australia. 
How are the medical members of the Council of the Fund elected. 
How are the contributors' representatives elected to the Council of the Fund. 
How many (a) medical practitioners, and (b) contributors' representatives, are members of the Council of the Fund. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
(a) All legally qualified medical practitioners registered in any State of the Commonwealth of Australia or the Australian Capital Territory and practising or resident within any such State or the Australian Capital Territory are eligible for election as medical members of the Medical Benefits Fund of Australia Limited. 
Any person resident in any Stateof the Commonwealth of Australia or in the Australian Capital Territory is eligible to become a contributory member of the Fund. 
The medical members of the Council of the Fund are nominated by the respective State Executive Committees. 
The Council appoints contributors' representatives to the State Executive Committees (on the recommendations of the respective Committees] and each State Executive Committee nominate! from its members a number of contributors' representatives to the Council. 
(a) 12 
12 
asked the 
Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
What research projects has the Joint Intelligence Organisation financed at universities throughout Australia and are the results of all of these projects able to be published freely by their authors. 
What was the amount of money provided by the Joint Intelligence Organisation in respect of each project during the last 5 years. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Will the Minister advise what action has been taken, or is intended to be taken, to implement the recommendations contained in the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Health and Welfare, on Physically and Mentally Handicapped Persons in Australia, which was presented to the Senate on 5th May 1971. 

 Senator McCLELLAND- The Minister for Social Security has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Some recommendations contained in the report, for example the establishment of work assessment centres for handicapped school leavers, planning the geographical location of new sheltered workshops, and assisting sheltered workshops to obtain Government contracts are already in process of being implemented by my Department. Other recommendations are concerned with matters that are a responsibility of the State Governments and will be brought to the notice of the relevant State authorities. However, some of the major proposals relate to matters that are already listed for consideration by the proposed National Commission on Social Welfare. It will be a function of the Commission to assist not only in ensuring that future social welfare developments are based on a carefully balanced and integrated plan, but also that full regard is had to the needs of the various groups and the priorities that should be given to meeting those needs. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
When did the Commonwealth Government, through the then Treasurer, the late  Sir Arthur  Fadden, introduce subsidies for: 
surf life saving organisations; and 
the Royal Life Saving Society ofAustralia. 
What were the amounts of the subsidies referred to in (1) 
What increases in the subsidies have occurred, and in what years. 

 Senator WILLESEE - The Treasurer has provided the following answers to the honourable senator's question: 
In 1950-51 the then Government approved the provision of financial assistance to the Surf Life Saving Association of Australia and to the Royal Life Saving Society of Australia. 
A subsidy of $10,000 was paid to both the Association and the Society in 1950-51. 
The annual grant to both organisations has been increased to the levels and at the time indicated below: 
asked the Minister for Repatriation, upon notice: 
When will his Depanment consider the 1972 Returned Servicemen's League Federal Congress submissions, particularly the section regarding returned servicemen who are members of the Commonwealth Public Service. 
