My question, addressed to the Minister for Shipping and Transport, refers to the maritime accident which happened to a tanker off Wednesday Island which is in my electorate. It concerns the damage that could be done to the cultured pearl industry, the fishing industry and the Great Barrier Reef. Was the Government prepared to cope with such a disaster? What measures were taken and have they been effective? 
I address my question to the Postmaster-General, lt refers to the television station being placed on Bellenden Ker. What is the present position? Is construction proceeding according to plan? What is the estimated time of completion? Were tenders for the cableway within the estimated cost? Has the Postmaster-General any other information to give about the construction of this project? 
My question is directed to the Postmaster-General. Why is it that a city like Cairns with a city population of 30,000 people and a district population of 110,000 people does not have continuous telegraph communications and why do the people have to telephone through to the Townsville exchange and pay for the trunkline calls to get urgent messages away to other parts of the Commonwealth during weekends and on holidays? 
 My question, which is directed to the Minister for Shipping and Transport, refers to the shipping services operating in the north of Australia, particularly in the Gulf of Carpentaria, Arnhem Land and the Northern Territory. ] presume the Minister has received a letter from John Burke Ltd, of which I have a copy. I ask the Minister: Why was a foreign shipping company using a foreign vessel given this service? Why was John Burke Limited not asked if it could service this area, an area in which it has been operating for many years, in view of the fact that the company at that moment was negotiating to buy more Australian built ships? If this permission cannot be revoked will the Minister assure the House that the foreign ship and company will utilise Australian seamen and Australian workers for the manning and working of the vessel? 
In directing a question to the Minister for Labour and National Service, I refer to the country apprenticeship scheme, which is a very good scheme, and which can be improved by including in it other trades in country areas. I ask him whether he will consider including in the scheme bakers and pastry cooks, boat builders, cooks, dental technicians, funiture tradesmen, hairdressers and piano tuners to enable the youth of the country to obtain employment in country areas instead of coming to the cities and depopulating country areas. 
 I direct my question to the Postmaster-General. Country supporters of rugby league are to be deprived of the opportunity to view on television the test between England and Australia. Whose fault is it that the game is not to be televised - the Australian Broadcasting Commission's or the rugby league executive's? If it is the fault of the ABC will the Minister use his influence to have the match televised for the benefit of country supporters? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Health. I presume that he has received correspondence from the Asthma Action Society and is aware that there are more than 600,000 asthmatics in Australia and that deaths from asthma double every 6 years. Will he give favourable consideration to a grant of S600,000 to establish clinics to advise the medical profession of the method used by  Dr James  of Wollongong, who has proved that his method of treatment without drugs is successful on patients suffering from asthma? I have proof of this in my own family. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Labour and National Service. 
Can the Minister for the Army inform the House whether the location of the Army marine base has been agreed to? If so, will he tell the House where it is to be located and when it will be commenced? He may recall that about 3 years ago the Army investigating committee went along the east coast of Queensland to find such a place. 
In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, 1 present the reports relating to the following proposed works. 
Development of the Port of Darwin, Northern Territory. 
Point Peron - Garden Island Causeway (Naval Support Facility, Cockburn Sound), Western Australia. 
Ordered that the reports be printed. 
T have listened to all the speakers in this debate and 1 agree with them all. We on the Public Works Committee when it inquired info aircraft noise, had evidence from which it appeared that no matter where an airport or runway is built there will always be this noise trouble. 1 do not think the Public Works Committee should be censured for its recommendations and I will give the reasons why. The evidence indicated that the need to have a runway operating at a certain time was a main factor. Another factor was that the whole of the Committee went into these areas, stood under the flight paths of aircraft and listened to the noise. We agreed with a lot of the people. Some people are not affected as much as others. 1 agree with the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  that now is the time Australia should be looking - it may be past the time but at least we should delay it no longer - for areas for runways that will not affect the people in any way. 
Aircraft noise is not confined only to Australia. It is a problem all over the world but we as a young nation should take the first step towards solving it. We have more areas available than possibly any other country; we have a small population and vast tracts of land. I think that the Department of Civil Aviation and the aircraft companies and factories should be doing more research into problems connected with the taking off, and landing of aircraft. Every session we hear of a new aircraft requiring another 600 feet or another 1,000 feet of runway. Where is it going to end? I have seen aircraft in operation at Farnworth rising straight off the ground to a height of 2,000 feet before moving forward. More research should be done on this technique. It would not only eliminate noise over houses and people but would also eliminate the need to extend runways. More hazards are created every time we extend a runway. 
I do not think the Public Works Committee could have reached any other recommendation than the one it has produced and referring the recommendations back to the Committee will not make any difference. I am forced to vote for the amendment and I do not think the Public Works Committee, if the reference goes back to the Committee, can bring down any recommendation other than the one it has presented. As the honourable member for Bradfield said, it recommended that facilities for training purposes should be made available immediately and that the Avalon runway be made redundant as far as training services are concerned. The people of Avalon are not against the factory being there and the facilities, except those for training Qantas pilots being there. Honourable members have said in this House that they do not want the Qantas pilots to be jeopardised in any way; they want the pilots to have this training. We agree with that. 
After all, the people who travel with Qantas are our responsibility and these pilots must be trained. In view of the timetable set down for the training of pilots and in view of the new aircraft coming into service, these things were so evident and prominent to the Committee that it was forced to bring in the recommendation it has. It has recommended that the Department look for further grounds which would not cause trouble through noisy aircraft flying over people. That recommendation is partly contained in the amendment moved by the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones).  I support the amendment but I consider the Committee should never be censured for the recommendations it brought down because it could bring down no other- recommendation than the one it has. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, the subject with which I wish to deal at this time concerns the Department of Social Services. BeforeI get onto the actual subject matter of my speech,I take this opportunity to support what my colleagues have said about the treatment of pensioners by this Government. It is not a worthwhile exercise for the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  or members of the Government to try to compare the percentage increases in the age pension under the Liberal Party-Country Party Government with the percentage increases during the period when the Labor Government was in office unless they take into consideration also the value of money. 
In the 1940s, a penny, for instance, bought a box of matches, some lollies or even an ice cream for a child. Today,1c, the value of which is more than the value of1d, will buy nothing like that at all. Unless Government members consider the value of money in conjunction with percentages they quote, they are not being fair dinkum and the figuresthat they are using are not reliable at all. In common with my colleagues, I was amazed that immediate action was not taken by the Government, following the increase in the cost of living, to grant a rise in pensions.I thought that a mini budget would be introduced. However, we will have to wait until Budget time in August before pensioners can be assured of any increase. 
The matter on which I wish to speak relates to pensioners also. It is the matter of spectacles being made for pensioners on behalf of the Department of Social Services. In Queensland I believe - and I hope thatI am right - that the contract for spectacles in that State is in the hands of one optometrist, namely, Trevor Henderson, who is located in Brisbane, over 1,000 miles, for instance, from Cairns. 
A pensioner in Cairns who wishes to apply for spectacles through the Department of Social Services first must go to the local hospital. The pensioner may be told to  return  in 4 months time when the Trevor Henderson's representative will be there. 
The pensioner comes back in 4 months time and is examined. I wantto be fair dinkum in what I say. Although some pensioners have told me differently, most of the pensioners to whom I have spoken say that when the lenses that they require have been established the representative of Trevor Henderson then opens a port to show them a variety of frames. In his case there are steel framed spectacles which come with the requiredlenses at no charge to pensioners. Also in that case is a whole heap of different frames and pensioners pick the frames they want. 
I will instance to the House one case because it is typical of what has been happening to all pensionsers. The pensioner chose a frame thinking that it would be free or would cost no more than a couple of dollars extra, an amount that he did not mind paying. He had to wait until the person representing Trevor Henderson returned to Brisbane from where the spectacles were posted to him COD. The pensioner had to pay $23.50. An optometrist in Cairns would sell a frame and lenses for that price. Yet the pensioner had to pay $23.50 COD. Then he found that the spectacles were bi-focal. He never wanted bi-focal spectacles. He never asked for them. When he put them on, he could not read with them - in fact, he could not see with them. This pensioner came to me. He said: 'Take these spectacles back to the Department of Social Services. Tell it that they are no good to me and I hope that they will fit some other pensioner.' 
I do not know what the racket is at all. ButI believe that the Department of Social Services should study the situation. I do not know why pensioners in cities like Townsville, Rockhampton and Cairns could not be treated in their own areas where optometrists and eye specialists are available rather than have to wait for the representative of Trevor Henderson to provide the spectacles. A local service would not cost the Department any additional money. As a matter of fact, it may now take a pensioner 12 months before he receives a set of spectacles that will suit him. 
Why cannot the Department subcontract work to optometrists or eye specialists in various areas and have the work done on the spot? Whycannot a person go to an eye specialist or an optometrist in his own area, be tested for spectacles and see immediately whether the spectacles provided are suitable for his requirements instead of being involved in this process where, over and over again, spectacles travel over 1,000 miles between Trevor Henderson and the pensioner who is to receive them? The case that I have instanced is not isolated. Many times pensioners, having paid $23.50 COD for their spectacles, find that those spectacles do not suit them. 
In Cairns, there is a jeweller who has a whole heap of spectacles in his store. What I am about to say may be laughed at, but I have seen it happen and it works very well indeed. Pensioners go to his store, pick out a set of spectacles, and try them on. The jeweller has a sight board, just as an optometrist has. Spectacles are fitted on pensioners, who test them, read with them and pick out those that suit them. The jeweller supplies the spectacles for a fee of $10. Why would not a pensioner try to obtain spectacles from this source for $10 if he finds that he has to pay$23.50 COD for spectacles from Trevor Henderson who, I believe, holds the contract in Queensland from the Department of Social Services to supply spectacles? I want the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  and particularly his Department to have a good look at this matter because I do not see why an optometrist or an eye specialist in an area such as Cairns which is more than 1,000 miles from Brisbane cannot do this job for the Department of Social Services better than it is done by Trevor Henderson who carries out the work from Brisbane. 
Has the PostmasterGeneral any information concerning the delayed construction of the television station in the Bellenden Ker area? If there is a delay in this project, what is the length of the delay and what is claimed as the cause of it? If it is climatic conditions can figures be given to substantiate this claim? 
My question is directed to the Minister for the Navy. As the naval patrol base has been established in Cairns, will the Minister in considering the name of the base remember the Minister for the Navy at the time of the construction of the base and name it HMAS 'Killen'? I think this would be appreciated by the people of Australia. If not HMAS 'Killen', will the Minister consider naming the base HMAS 'Gorton', after the Prime Minister at the time? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of 1he House of Representatives in Parliament assem bled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That the Australian Education Council's report on the needs of State education services has established serious deficiencies in education. 
That these can be summarised as lack of classroom accommodation, desperate teacher shortage, oversized classes and inadequate teaching aids. 
That the additional sum of one thousand million dollars is required over the next five years by the States for these needs. 
That without massive additional Federal finance the State school system will disintegrate. 
That the provisions of the Handicapped Children's Assistance Act 1970 should be amended to include all the country's physically and mentally handicapped children. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Ensure that emergency finance from the Commonwealth will be given to the States for their public education services which provide schooling for seventy-eight per cent of Australia's children. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question is addressed to the Treasurer. Has he or the Government given serious consideration to the elimination of sales tax on freight? If he has not will he give this matter prompt attention as it affects people living outside the metropolitan area, has an effect on decentralisation and is an imposition on people living in rural areas particularly when they live more than 1,000 miles away from the capital city? 
My question is directed to the Postmaster-General. Is it true that 40 or more of the staff in the Engineers Department of the PostmasterGeneral's Department in Cairns are to be  transferred to a southern city? If it is true, how can the Postmaster-General justify this action when he supports the policy of decentralisation - or does he? Does he realise the position of these men and their families in having to sacrifice their homes at forced-to-sell prices so that they can purchase homes, if possible, at their new destinations? ls Cairns to be administered federally from Townsville as seems to be the policy of the present Country-Liberal Party in Queensland? 
I protest emphatically against this attitude of the Postmaster-General's Department. Like my colleague the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson),  I think all members of the Australian Country Party should be against this if they are fair dinkum in their attitude to decentralisation. The previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd),  spoke about centralisation of personnel and decentralisation of work. This does not happen. In the area which I represent, the Cape York Peninsula, a third of the area is still without telephone exchanges. Let honourable members remember that it is a developing area and will be greatly developed in the near future. Therefore, there will be more work for the divisional staff of the Postmaster-General's Department in design and engineering. I believe that 42 families are to be moved from Cairns south to Townsville or elsewhere. Townsville is a long way from Cairns and Cape York Peninsula. 
If the Country Party is fair dinkum and believes in decentralisation it will support the Opposition and try to stop this proposal of the Postmaster-General's Department. The Department proposes to take 42 families from Cairns but does it realise the imposition that this will be on these families? They have been there for years and have their own homes. They will have to sacrifice the homes and sell them at deflated prices because the buyers will know they are trying to clear them. They will then have to go to another area, find new homes and establish themselves there. I do not think the Postmaster-General's Department will save anything because the staff will have to travel the long distance from Townsville into the area from which they have come for design and engineering purposes. They will have to travel by car. There are no aeroplanes operating to this area and in much of it there is not a good road. Because of their travelling costs and their keep while they are in the area the Postmaster-General's Department will not save any money. Cape York Peninsula, as the Minister knows, is a developing area not only because of minerals but also because of cattle and agricultural pursuits as well as fishing. This area must be serviced by the Postmaster-General's Department in the future to facilitate its development. More people are moving into it every day. Therefore, it is a bad step for the Department to transfer these people from Cairns to Townsville when they will still be required in that area. 
If we are to adopt a policy of decentralisation we must look at the question of taking personnel away from a developing area in which they will be needed. If we do move them we will not save money. Some of the staff will want to look for other positions. The Department is losing its design staff to private enterprise because of this attitude. It is transferring them from homes in which they live and their children from schools which they attend, uprooting them, and taking them to another area. Eventually they will finish up in Brisbane instead of Townsville. The Department is always talking about losing divisional staff; this is one way in which it will lose that staff. If the Department lifts 42 families from Cairns and sends them to Townsville this will disrupt those 42 families and make a big difference to the income and economy of the Cairns area. 
This brings me back to the point of decentralisation. The Government is not doing anything to help decentralisation or to help this area to progress, as it will progress despite the Government because the potential is there. The natural resources are there and they will be developed. These people will be forced to go back into that area again, and the Government will be losing money in the meantime by sending them and their families from Cairns to Townsville. 
I assume that the Postmaster-General has received telegrams from various organisations in my electorate. I have one here from the Cairns City Council advising that it has informed the Minister that it is most emphatically against the move. I also have a telegram from the Cairns Chamber of Commerce. There is nothing political in this matter because these organisations are not Labor supporters. Their members are citizens who have a vote and a conscience of their own. They are not Labor supporters, but they are with me in opposing the action that the Department has taken in sending these families away from Cairns, and ceasing the service they were providing in that area. They know as well as I know that these people will be required back in that area again very soon because of the development that is going on there not only in the minerals industry, which I have mentioned, but also in the cattle indusry and the fishing industry. 
I must thank the Postmaster-General for granting extensions of communications within my area. We have had our difficulties, but over the years I have been successful in getting these communications through the Postmaster-General, and the people of my electorate are grateful to him. But he is smashing all the good work down to the ground by implementing this policy and taking these people from  Cairns  to Townsville when they will be required in the Cairns area in the future. The Government will have to pay for them to come back into the Cairns area to do the design and engineering work that will be necessary,  and it will cost  the Government a damn sight more than it will cost to shift these families to Townsville. This move will inconvenience the people in the PostmasterGeneral's Department. These people will be disheartened and disinclined to work for the Department because their homes are established in Cairns. They will be looking to private industry for further work rather than stay in the engineering section of the Postmaster-General's Department and be shifted from post to post. They have been in Cairns for many years. Their children have been reared there and have gone to school there. 
These 43 families are to be shifted from this area to Townsville. Townsville itself is overcrowded and the local authorities there have their problems in supplying houses, water, sewerage, electricity and other facilities. These facilities exist in the area of Cairns. Why shift these people? I believe that if I sit down now this debate will be adjourned. I want it to be adjourned so I can get more information. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Giles)  adjourned. 
My question is directed to the Postmaster-General. On 9th July last and again on 24th September the Cairns District Tourist Development Association wrote to him asking for a representative temperature of the north Queensland area to be included in the Australian Broadcasting Commission's radio weather bulletins. Has this request been acceded to and, if so, when will this service commence? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That the Australian Education Council's report on the needs of State education services has established serious deficiencies in education. 
That these can be summarised as lack of classroom accommodation, desperate teacher shortage, oversized classes and inadequate teaching aids. 
That the additional sum of one thousand million dollars is required over the next five years by the States for these needs. 
That without massive additional Federal finance the State school system will disintegrate. 
That the provisions of the Handicapped Children's Assistance Act 1970 should be amended to include all the country's physically and mentally handicapped children. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to 
Ensure that emergency finance from the Commonwealth will be given to the States for their public education services which provide schooling for seventy-eight per cent of Australia's children. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question is addressed to the Acting Minister for Primary Industry. Why did the Department of Primary Industry refuse 2 applicants from Cairns permission to trawl for prawns along the east coast of Queensland? The reason given for the refusal was that the policy was to restrict prawn trawlers entering the Gulf of Carpentaria and that if the applications had been granted in respect of the east coast the Department could not prevent the trawlers from entering the Gulf. Has there been a change in policy? According to a report the Australian-Japanese company, the Gollin Kyokuyo Fishing Co., will build 6 more trawlers, 2 of which have already been launched and will be operating - 
In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, I present the reports relating to the following proposed works: 
Stage 5 Extensions of the Stokes Hill Power Station, Darwin; 
Brucella Vaccine Testing Laboratory at Canberra, A.C.T. 
I move: 
That the reports be printed. l&gt;r Patterson - The Opposition supports the motion. The Northern Territory - 
As the time allowed for me to speak in this debate has been cut down from 20 minutes to 10 minutes I will have time only to give details of the case I have in mind and not to elaborate on the amendment moved by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson).  The case concerns a young serviceman returned from Vietnam who is an experienced tobacco grower. On his return to Australia he married and he and his wife decided to go onto a farm. They came to see me. I was not sure then whether the soldier settlement scheme extended to share farming but I was informed that it did. The young returned serviceman applied for assistance and his eligiblity was established. He applied for a loan of $6,000 and a questionnaire was sent to him. He filled in the form and returned it. As we had heard nothing after 3 weeks had elapsed I rang the Authority and was told that the application was before the Minister. 1 said: 'If you do not do something about it I will have to ring up the Minister. ls it favourable or unfavourable?' On being told that an unfavourable decision was expected I asked why. I was told that the property tendered by the young man as collaterial or equity was worth only about $6,000, or the same amount as the loan he had requested. I said: 'If you had told me that in the first place we might have adjusted it.' 
I got in touch with the lad again and another property, worth about $12,000, was tendered as collateral. I rang the Authority to give that advice and was told that the loan should be approved. Details were sent to the Authority and another 3 weeks passed. I rang the Authority after 3 weeks had elapsed and again was told that the case was before the Minister for his consideration. I said: 'Now look, you told me that before. Is it favourable or unfavourable?' The officer said: 'We do not think the lad has enough equity'. I got in touch with a man named Collins, a tobacco grower, and he told me that the lad was an experienced tobacco grower and that the property offered as collateral was  a  good one. I conveyed that information to the Authority but was told that the farmer who owned the property might sell out. I said: 'Yes, but that farmer has already told you that if he sells out it will be part of the agreement of sale that the lad still be a share farmer. Surely that is good enough*. 
This sort of thing went on for about 9 months before the young man received a definite knock back from the Authority. He has had to obtain private finance to carry him through. When he approached a private financier he agreed to help without any qualms at all. If it is good enough for private enterprise to finance a serviceman who has played his part in Vietnam, surely to goodness the Government should accept the collaterial offered as adequate to justify the loan for which he has applied. It is not too late. I ask the Minister and the Authority to reassess this case. The loan could be switched over from the private financier to the Government and the young man would then pay a lower interest rate. Perhaps the Authority can take it over for him. He deserves it. 
The young man concerned is very energetic. He is an experienced tobacco grower and there is no reason in the world why the Authority should knock back his appliiation for a loan. He is young, just starting off his married life. The farmer who owns the property concerned has already guaranteed that if he sells the property a condition of the sale will be that the young man is to remain a share farmer on it. Surely this should be good enough for the Authority to lend the amount of money requested. It has taken a long time to get a decision and the young man concerned had to go in to debt. He had to fertilise the property and take all the steps required of a tobacco farmer before the crop matured. Then he had to rely on the crop being sold. This has been done. He is a good farmer and he has proved it. There is no reason why the Department should have knocked back his loan of $6,000 on the assumption that he did not have enough equity in the arrangement. The guarantee that was put up by his people was a property of flats in Mareeba valued at $12,000. Surely that property valued at $12,000 by the valuer in the area would be a good enough guarantee for a $6,000 loan. It was good enough for a $6,000 loan from the private financiers. I do not see why the Government should not have taken up this matter. 
I hope that the Minister and the Department will have another look at this and see whether they can relieve this man of his burden. 
Motion (by  Mr Giles)  put - 
That the question be now put. 
My question is directed to the Treasurer. In view of the fact that  allowances paid under Commonwealth tertiary scholarships are not subject to income tax, and considering the teacher shortage which makes it imperative to encourage young people to train as teachers, I ask: Will the Treasurer give urgent consideration to making allowances received under State Government teacher training scholarships exempt from income tax? 
I second the motion. I believe there is an urgent need for the suspension of Standing Orders and the appointment of a committee of inquiry because of the dissatisfaction and the concern amongst many of the employees of the Postmaster-General's Department. The top engineers are, of course, not affected by this change but rh district reorganisation has not been in the best interests of the Post Office and the public. 1 feel that this matter should he aired because it affects so many people in country areas, particularly in my area around Cairns. I support the motion moved by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson). 
Many people advocate the banning of the advertising of cigarettes and tobacco on television and radio as well as through the post. I know that lots of people are convinced that smoking causes cancer, but I am not. 1 have seen many articles and many films on this matter. At the present time plenty of films and lectures by experts are available, on this subject. It is interesting to note that, no matter how good these experts are, they cannot reach a common agreement that the statement that smoking causes cancer is correct. 1 do nol mind cigarette packages being branded with the slogan that smoking is injurious to health or that one smokes at one's own risk. In my opinion advertising does not prevent people from smoking. Advertising may cause a person to change from one brand of cigarettes to another, but a person who wants to smoke will do so and there is no way in the world to stop him. If cigarette and tobacco packages are branded with the slogan that smoking ls injurious to health it would be up to the smoker to decide whether he will continue to smoke. But why deprive a smoker of the right to smoke if he wants to do so? Do honourable members think that the banning of the publication of nude photographs in magazines and so forth will stop sexual intercourse? Of course it will not. In the same way the banning of cigarette advertising will not stop people from smoking. It has not stopped them from smoking in the United States of America or anywhere else in which this form of advertising has been banned. 
One has to take into consideration the value of the industry to the Government and to the nation. I would prefer to see more Australian tobacco used in the cigarettes sold in this country. Years ago America was in the same position as Australia is now in. Now only about 5 per cent or 6 per cent of the imported product is used in American cigarettes and tobacco. We should do the same thing because we do not have an export market for our tobacco and it is unlikely that we will ever have one. The value of the tobacco industry to Australia should be appreciated by everybody. The value of the. cigarettes and tobacco sold in Australia annually is $560m. The revenue derived by the Government in the form of excise from the sale of cigarettes and tobacco in Australia is S300m. Any reduction in the revenue derived from this quarter would have to be made up by revenue derived from another quarter. 
In my area alone there are 1,800 tobacco growers and 2,000 share farmers. I admit that that is the reason why I have raised this matter. These people rely on the tobacco industry for their livelihood. There is always talk about decentralisation but nothing is ever done to achieve it. If this industry is affected in any way as a result of the banning of certain forms of advertising it could force some of the people to whom I have referred to move away from the tobacco growing areas. It must be remembered also that millions of dollars have been spent in storing the water which the tobacco growers require in order to grow their tobacco. This industry is not only of immense value to the Australian Government in monetary terms but it also provides a livelihood for up to 4,000 or 5,000 people in the Mareeba, Dimbulah, Mary Farms and Bilwon areas. What will happen to these areas if the tobacco industry is affected in any way by the banning of tobacco advertising? 
Yes, I myself smoke and I will continue to smoke until I die. I might die from lung cancer; I might die of something else. We all will die some day because of something. It might not be because of smoking. I have never been convinced as to the cause of lung cancer. I will say this: Smoking may aggravate an existing cancer condition. How many people have died of lung cancer who never smoked in their lives? There are many. It might also be said that people who wear white shirts are more susceptible to cancer than those who wear coloured shirts because more people wear white shirts. At least, that was the case. Now, people are wearing coloured shirts. The situation might be reversed. It might be said that those who wear coloured shirts are more susceptible to cancer. Not everybody is convinced. At the present time, an American lecturer is in Australia- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Cope)Order! I ask the honourable member to return to the subject matter of the Bill. 
But this is on the licences and deals with the Broadcasting and Television Bill. 
My question is directed to the Treasurer. I am sure that the honourable gentleman is aware that there is a law which sets out that small ships and boats have to carry safety gear such as flares, life jackets and so forth. The owners of the ships are not against this law and I am not against it. However, will the Treasurer give serious consideration to lifting the sales tax off these items? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker,  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management. Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary, inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to National Development 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker,  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to National Development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker,  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Division ofLeichhardt respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to national development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question is directed to the Minister for External Territories. Some years ago the Government advertised for young men who had a certain education standard to make a career for themselves in New Guinea as patrol officers. Since then they have married and have families. Is it true that they will lose their careers soon, and has the Government made any attempt to absorb them within the Public Service in Australia or provide them with any other positions within government organisations in Australia? 
The Postmaster-General is no doubt aware that Torres Strait Islanders based on Thursday Island belong to Australia and wish to stay Australians. Is a relay station being erected at Weipa to enable that area to receive Australian Broadcasting Commission radio broadcasts? I believe it is technically possible to construct a similar station at Tamwoy Town on Thursday Island. Will the PostmasterGeneral have his technicians investigate this possibility as I believe that it would not be expensive to erect such a station there? 
I did not intend to speak in this debate but, as a member of the Public Works Committee, I should say that it was not the Committee's duty to investigate educational facilities. Its duty was to examine the site and see that the building was suitable and that the work was necessary. The educational facilities are a matter for the Department of Education and Science. However, during the hearing of evidence a lot of information came before the Committee with regard to this College and it was stressed on many occasions by witnesses that they would like to see more Aboriginal involvement in the teaching of Aborigines. We would all agree with this. But it was not the duty of the Public Works Committee to examine the educational facilities at the college. Its main object was to see that the site was suitable, that the building would be adequate and that it was necessary to spend this money on building the College. 
Throughout our investigations a lot of questions were asked about educational standards and how they would be achieved. I do not think that this was wrong. But at the same time in my opinion it was not the duty of the Public Works Committee to investigate the educational standards or the methods of teaching. The College will do a good deal for the advancement of Aborigines in the area providing we do not frighten these people off. We cannot expect to bring these Aboriginal children into our' society and up to our standards of education without looking at their side too. We frighten many of these children off with our education because they do not understand what we are trying to do for them. In fact we might be doing wrong in trying to build their standards up too fast. Along with my colleagues, I believe that there should be more involvement of Aboriginal teachers and others who understand the Aborigines and understand what we are trying to do for them. They must understand that by what we are trying to do for them they can improve themselves, but we must not force upon them something that they do not want. Too often we try to do this. 
The College could be successful providing we take a proper attitude towards the environment there for these children. I say this guardedly because I have lived in an area which has a lot of Aborigines and I have been to school with these people. They do not understand what we are trying to do for them. They think we are trying to bully them to come up to our standards. This is not right. They have to be taught that we are trying to help them, but we have to understand them in the same way as they have to understand us. The College could be the beginning of an understanding between both races. If it is successful then we have done a good job. However, the Public Works Committee was presented only with the task of finding out whether the site was suitable, whether the building was suitable and whether the expenditure was warranted, and this is what the Committee has done. The Committee has done everything it can to encourage educational facilities, but I feel sometimes that we are trying to force the Aboriginal people into doing something they do not want to do. if we can involve some of our educated Aborigines in the education of their people we could do a lot more for them than we are doing at present. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
My question which is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs follows upon the answer given to a question asked by the honourable member for Holt. Are the people of Bangladesh fully informed on what the Australian Government is doing for them? When I say people' I mean the people, not only the heads of government. For instance, do trucks carry an isignia to indicate that the are from Australia? If they do, is the insignia in English or is it in a language which the people in Bangladesh understand? Does the Press give us a full coverage to show the people that we not only care about them but also want to help them? 
My question is directed to the Postmaster-General. Is it a fact that the television station on Mt Bellenden Ker is now complete and could be in operation? If that is correct, what is the cause of the delay and when does the Minister hope to have this station in operation? 
I will not take long although if I thought I would do any good I would talk all night. I want to criticise the Country Party member, the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett),  who had the audacity to refute the figures which the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  gave in relation to costs that would be involved if a 35-hour week was introduced over a period of 3 to 5 years. Government members already have the figures he cited. They are not his figures; they are figures provided by experts so their authenticity cannot be questioned. Members of the Country Party have been saying this afternoon that costs would increase by 35 per cent or thereabouts if a 35-hour week was brought in. I do not know whether honourable members on the opposite side know that many years ago the international organisation which was considering mechanisation and its effects unanimously decided that shorter working hours would be the answer to mechanisation and modernisation because if the work force was to be fully employed this was the method it should use. I did not intend to talk on this matter. 
I have only a few minutes. I want to speak about the National Service Act. When the Government brought in this Act it said that it was necessary. I did not think so myself, nor did my colleagues. If it was necessary then, it is less necessary now. The Government should take a more humane, commonsense attitude towards the people who are called up for national service. I talk of, for example, sons of dairy farmers upon whom their families have relied for many years to make a living. All of a sudden the chief provider, the eldest son or the second son, is taken away from the family to do national service. The lads themselves do not object to national service training but their families are in a bad position because they cannot afford to employ other people even if they could get them. 
Apprentices also are vitally affected by national service. It sometimes happens that an apprentice who has served one year or 18 months of his apprenticeship is called up for national service and his apprenticeship training is disrupted. If he is lucky he can return to his apprenticeship training when his national service has concluded. However, the Government has no rehabilitation scheme for national servicemen such as was introduced by  Mr Chifley  who ensured that servicemen were given sufficient training to bring them up to the standard they had attained prior to their entry into the armed forces. The Government should consider such a scheme for national servicemen particularly if they are to have a chance to continue in the trades to which they have dedicated themselves. 
Nowadays we hear much about academics and people who want to be doctors, dentists, lawyers and accountants, but this country has to rely on people who work with their hands as well as with their minds and 1 do not think sufficient attention has been given to the subject of apprentice training. The more tradesmen we can produce the better it will be for Australia in the future. The Government should look at the situation because there is considerable disruption to the education of men being called up for national service. A similar situation may apply to academics who are studying for their doctorates. The Government should take a more sympathetic attitude. Surely there are plenty of labourers out of work who could be accepted into the Army. More sympathetic consideration should be given to the boys who are starting out on their careers, apprentices particularly. Not many firms nowadays will accept as apprentices persons aged 18 or 19 years because the employers are frightened that these young men will be called up for national service. I should like to debate this subject at greater length but I have agreed that a colleague of mine also should have an opportunity to address himself to these estimates for 5 minutes. National service not only disrupts the families of cockies but also the families of apprentices who are undertaking their early training and hoping to be helpful to Australia when they finish their time. 
by leaveAs a member of the Public Works Committee, I want to say a few words on this proposal. I agree with the sentiments expressed by the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly),  who is the  Chairman  of the Committee, and by my colleague from Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson).  I believe that a good deal of the objection to this proposal is due to the fact that people have not read the evidence that was given to the Committee. I do not think the construction of a tower on Black Mountain will alter the significance of the mountain. I think it will improve Black Mountain. The Committee made sure that the people of Canberra would not be deprived of the present right to go on to Black Mountain and have a barbecue or do some sightseeing. If they want to go up to the tower restaurant that will be their privilege. I think it will be advantageous to Canberra and a great monument for posterity. 
The proposition before the Public Works Committee was that all the communication facilities should be in the one place. The alternative was a separation of the radio and television facilities. We were told quite definitely by the experts that such a separation would cause ghosting in certain sections of Canberra. Nobody would want that. For the best results the radio and television facilities had to be together.I feel sure that this concept is the best for Canberra and its residents. I think it will also be in the interests of the tourist trade in Canberra, which is a very vital consideration. No-one will be compelled to go to the restaurant. As long as we preserve the right of the people of Canberra to have picnics on top of Black Mountain and also park their vehicles there we will be doing the right thing. Although there may be a large increase in the motor traffic in the area as a result of the construction of this tower, we were assured that that aspect could be catered for on the southern part of Black Mountain. People who only want to visit the reserve will not have to pay for the privilege of doing so, but I think the Postmaster-General's Department has done the right thing in trying to recoup some of the cost of this project by including a restaurant in it. I am sure that lots of people will want to go to the revolving restaurant. Somebody said to me the other day that one would get giddy going around, but that is not correct. It will not revolve at 100 miles an hour. It will revolve slowly so that people can see' the whole panorama of Canberra. I thinkthat this tower will be the best solution to the problem. I support this proposition wholeheartedly. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I welcome the provisions of this Bill introduced by the Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Holten).  But I wish to raise one matter in relation to the Bill concerning war service homes. I ask the Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  who administers the War Service Homes Division to look at the situation of the Torres Strait Islanders who live on the islands off the Queensland coast. At the present time they are not able to build war service homes to the standard demanded on the mainland for the simple reasons that the cost of erecting these homes is beyond their capacity to meet and that, if one of these homes was built and forfeited, no islander could afford to buy it. These reasons prevent islanders from building homes to the standards of the War Service Homes Division. 
I think that the Minister should look at the housing standards set in Queensland by the State Department of Aboriginal and Island Affairs under which a home can be built for between $1,000 and $1,200. These homes are built for the islanders from their own timbers and are quite substantial. This is the standard of home that these people can afford on the islands. This is the standard of home which they all can look after, and they do. These people are very house proud. But there is no way in the world that they could afford to build homes to the standard set by the War Service Homes Division which at the present time could cost between $15,000 or $17,000. They could not afford to pay this directly or to repay it. I mink that this is one aspect of the matter on which the Minister for Repatriation should consult with the Minister for Housing to see whether the standard required by the War Service Homes Division can be adjusted so that these people might enjoy the benefits provided by that Division in respect of war service housing. 
by leave- I want to support the remarks of the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  who is the  Chairman  of the Public Works Committee. It has been a very hard period for the Committee, particularly in the last 12 months. I also pay a tribute to  Mr Morrie  Adamson, the Secretary of the Committee, who is leaving, as the  Chairman  has said. As a Committee we have worked very well together. Quite a lot of country has been covered, from New Guinea over to Perth and down to Hobart. We have always been good friends. We ' have not always agreed on certain aspects but, as the  Chairman  said, we have never divided on parly lines. It has always been left to the discretion of the individual.. In that way we have got through the work this year. Otherwise, we could not have done it. I thank the  Chairman  for - his kindness and thoughtfulness during our journeying all over Australia. 
I will not delay the House for very long; I promised the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon)  that I would not. But there is a point that I should like to bring to the attention of the Government. The prevailing winds from the Pacific Ocean are from the southeast and northeast and, if it is possible, I think that some action should be taken to prevent ships carrying oil from coming down the east coast of Australia. We have had instances of 2 ships being caught on the coral reefs and doing damage to the marine life and also to the cultured pearl industry around Thursday Island. I do not think that these ships should even go through the Torres Straits into the Arafura Sea. All ships carrying oil - tankers or any other ships; - should go around the west coast of Australia. They should come through the Indian Ocean rather than the Pacific Ocean. 
This has been proved over time because of the disasters that have been caused by these ships coming through the coral reef - the Great Barrier Reef - and they will happen again and again. Although we are gaining more knowledge of the Reef, the pilots still have not been able to guarantee that the ships can be negotiated safely along the east coast. Damage could be caused not only to the marine life but also to the Great Barrier Reef and this would be detrimental to the Reef, which is a wonder of the world. All the oil that is spilled out of ships as a result of disasters - in ships being holed by the Reef or in any other way - is blown on to the Reef and inland towards the east coast. We should not allow any ships carrying oil, whether they be tankers or otherwise, to travel along the east coast. They should be diverted through the Indian Ocean and around the west coast. 
Some people may say that this will mean that oil will cost us more; but it will not, because even the ships that come down the east coast go right down to Melbourne and the oil is then transported back up the coast. There is no reason for it at all and 
I think that some action should be taken by the Government to prevent all oil carrying ships from travelling on the east coast of Australia. They should be made to come through the Indian Ocean and around the west coast and to dump their oil there. Then there would be no contamination of the marine life or the Reef in the area to which I refer. 
That is the reason why I wanted to say these few words. I have said them before. The Government should look at this situation and try to obtain an international agreement that no oil carrying ship, whether Australian or foreign owned, should be allowed to travel around the east coast of Australia. All such ships should be diverted around the west coast to prevent them from having accidents which would pollute the Great Barrier Reef, its marine life and also the cultured pearl industry. I thank the Minister for Shipping and Transport for the few minutes that he has given me to speak on this matter. It is an essential part of our national life to preserve the Great Barrier Reef, our fishing industry and also our cultured pearl industry. Honourable members know as well as 1 do that the last time an oil ship foundered on the Reef it spoiled the entire cultured pearl business around the southeast of Thursday Island. Not only the oil but also the detergent that was used to clear away the oil killed all the cultured pearl life around the islands there. 
I wish to deal with communications in the electorate of Leichhardt. My remarks will be on lines similar to those of my friend from Wimmera  (Mr King).  Since the reorganisation of the Postmaster-General's Department, the situation in regard to telephone, radio and television services in my electorate has worsened. One person in Kuranda, who has a very sick wife and a doctor's certificate stating that the provision of a telephone service to his home should receive priority, applied for the installation of a telephone 2 years ago. This man,  Mr- Mason  - he will not mind my mentioning his name - has not had a telephone connected as yet. But a community of Aborigines near Redlynch engendered a lot of newspaper publicity and a public telephone was installed in their area immediately. It is not right that people should be required to wait for the connection of telephone services because, after all, revenue is gained from these services which are necessary especially for people living in far flung places. 
Kuranda is only 12 miles by road from Cairns. These people have been waiting all these years to have the service connected. A telephone is necessary for them to conduct their business as well as to look after the family when the husband is away from home. The same circumstances apply to a fellow named Christensen who lives at Kings Plain, outside Cooktown. He has a very sick wife. He has a cattle property and he is away from home for long periods. Yet he cannot get a phone connected to his home. Why? I cannot get a satisfactory answer from the Department. I have not yet mentioned this matter to the Postmaster-General  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  but I shall. I have informed him that I will see him about it. But why should I need to see the Minister? Why cannot the officers of the Department rectify these mistakes? They have told me that the reorganisation of the Postmaster-General's Department has meant that the telephone division in the area is now centred at Townsville rather than Cairns. Cairns is neglected because there are no engineers in the area. Money has not been allotted to Cairns as it was when Cairns was the centre of a telephone division. The money is now allotted to Townsville. This shows a lack of concern for the area north of Cairns - 220,000 square miles of country including Cape York Peninsula - which is crying out for development. It will be developed irrespective of governments and other factors. The area has the natural resources and its development will proceed. Our communications system should be well advanced so that it can assist the prawning industry, the minerals industry and the cattle industry. 
Recently a television transmitter . was installed on Mount Bellenden Ker. Each night the television station advertises that 90,000 people are now being serviced by it. They are not. Thirty thousand, people are not; receiving a picture now, whereas when the station operated from the flat land in Cairns they received .a picture. I refer to people in the Babinda, Redlynch,  Freshwater  and Mossman areas. It is true that outback areas around Herberton and Ravenshoe are receiving a picture for the first time, but people who previously received a picture when it was transmitted from the flat land in Cairns are not receiving a picture now. This matter has to be, investigated. I . ask the  Minister  to look into -it.; I was assured by the previous PostmasterGeneral that when the transmitter on, Mount. Bellenden Ker was in operation the areas that did not receive a picture would be serviced by translators which would be installed so that the people in those areas could receive a picture. This promise has not been honoured. I hope that the Minister will honour the promise given by the previous government. Except for Mount Bartle Frere near Babinda, Mount Bellenden Ker is the highest mountain in the area. 
When the picture was transmitted, from1 Cairns, people in the Babinda area were receiving a clear picture and clear sound.. I do not know the technicalities concerned. Today they are not receiving a picture. People living in the Freshwater, Redlynch and Mossman areas are not receiving a picture either. Quite a number of people live , in these areas. The television station advertises that 90,0.00 people are being serviced by it. This is not correct. Thirty thousand people who previously received a picture are not receiving one at present. They have spent a lot of money on having their antennae extended. Some people have had their antennae turned round. Some experts advise that the antennae should be turned round so that a picture can be received. This is not correct. The desired result has not been achieved. Therefore, I ask the Minister to have an investigation made o the position in the Leichhardt electorate so that it will not be too long before these areas are serviced by translators. 
I will see the Postmaster-General later about the matter of telephone services. The position is worse now than it has ever been. More than 800 applicants in Cairns, in the surrounding area and in the Leichhardt electorate are waiting to have a telephone service connected. This should not be so. The Department should be looking for customers. They pay the rental and for their telephone calls. They are helping to develop this country. People in the backblocks are the salt of the earth. They deserve a telephone service at least, or radio communications, so that they can get in touch with a doctor or the ambulance if things go wrong at their homes. That is their right. I think the Parliament should take notice of the plight of these people in the Leichhardt electorate. 
Will the Minister for Northern Development take appropriate action to ensure that soft drink manufacturers in north Queensland are able to purchase sugar at the same price as it is being made available to  the brewery in Cairns for the manufacture of beer? As both beer and soft drinks are most important to people living in tropical Queensland what is the reason for the difference in sugar pricing? 
My question directed to the Prime Minister refers to the border dispute between Papua New Guinea and Australia. Before any action is taken, or if no action at all is taken, will the Prime Minister use his personal influence or his constitutional powers to ensure that the people of the Torres Strait Islands have land rights conferred upon them without cost, so that they can decide what they want to do? 
In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-72 I present the thirtyfifth general report of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 

 Mr FULTON (Leichhardt)- I seek leave to make a short statement. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Science, and it concerns the Australian Institute of Marine Science. In view of the lack of research into marine science in this country, and having in mind the potential of the fishing industry, can the Minister say what steps have been taken to implement the legislation establishing the Australian Institute of Marine Science laboratory? 
Has the Minister for Northern Development read the Press reports on important sugar conferences being held in London between the British Government and the governments of Commonwealth sugar producing countries? Is it a fact that Australia is not taking part in these talks? If so, why not? 
 I did not intend to speak and I will not delay the House because I want this Bill to be passed as quickly as possible but it grieved me to see the crocodile tears being shed by members of the Opposition. A Liberal Party member who spoke referred to the delays in money being made available to persons seeking loans, because of this Bill not yet being passed. This is not a  new  situation; it has been going on for years. When I was in Opposition I was forever pestering previous Ministers for Housing about the same problem - the delay in getting money for war service homes causing many ex-servicemen to miss out on homes because the vendors could not wait for the finance. The honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Hewson)  said he was not an ex-serviceman. I am, and I say good luck to those fellows who will now be able to get homes. I should like every young couple to be able to get a home. There are many people who would have gone to war but were not allowed to do so because of their industrial occupations. They were just as entitled to the benefits for homes as was anybody else. I believe they are all entitled to benefits. I congratulate the Minister for Housing  (Mr Les Johnson)  on the step he has taken and on the steps that I know he will take later. 
The main thing I want to talk about and bring to the attention of the Minister is the position of ex-servicemen on Thursday Island. I followed this matter through with the previous 2 Ministers. Why can ex-servicemen on Thursday Island not get a home under the provisions of this legislation? To my know.doe there is only one such home on Thursday Island. The reason given as to why they could not get such a home was that it was desired to build them to the same standard as such homes on the mainland. This is not necessary. At the present time, of course, great attention is being focused on the Torres Strait Islands because of a border dispute and people there are getting more attention than they ever got before. A lot of the things they are getting now they should have got before. 
The housing commission homes that are being built at Tammoy town are quite adequate for what is required in that area, and 1 think the defence service homes authorities could build the same sort of home. I think that 30 to 40 more ex-servicemen who are eligible to them could have war service homes or defence service homes built on Thursday Island. Housing on the island is very poor. I think that if the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Bryant)  were here tonight be would agree with me. He has been up there recently. I have been up there several times. The building regulations are very poor indeed, but defence service homes of the standard presently being built in Tammoy town by the housing commission could be built. These are not elaborate buildings but they are quite adequate for the people to look after. They are suitable for the area in which they are built. It has to be realised, of course, that service homes have to have resale value. I suppose the same applies to housing commission homes. 1 would like the Minister to have a look at the condition of these homes at the present time if he has a chance or get information regarding them and see if they can be adopted as a model for defence service homes for people who are eligible to them. I really mean what I am saying because these people have been deprived of their privileges for so long. When I first came into this House they were receiving 30 per cent of the pension that the average ex-serviceman on the mainland was receiving. Their pension was built up. The last Minister with whom I had a conversation in regard to this was  Sir Reginald  Swartz when he was Minister for Repatria tion. He was the fellow who pushed things through so that they were then getting the same entitlements as a returned serviceman on the mainland. Their pension was built up to the. level of those on the mainland, but since then nothing has happened about providing them with war service homes. I hope that the defence service homes authorities will take into consideration what I have said and see if it is possible for these people to receive the home to which they are entitled. They are eligible for it and should be able to receive it. I would like the Minister to look at this question and see what can be done. 
In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act of 1969-1972, 1 present the report rel ating to the following proposed works: 
Wellington Telephone Exchange at Perth, Western Australia. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
In accordance  with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1972, I present the report relating to the following proposed work: 
Extensions to Windsor Telephone Exchange, Melbourne, Victoria. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I ask the Minister for Northern Development whether it is a fact that a large sale of sugar has been made to China in recent days. Was this sugar sold within the provisions of the International Sugar Agreement? What was the price received for the sugar? 
In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1972, I present the report relating to the following proposed work: 
Modernisation of HMA Naval Dockyard (Stage 1) Williamstown, Victoria. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I seek leave to make a short statement. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Defence. I have received reliable information from members of the Army that certain action, similar to that which was taken at Duntroon, is being implemented particularly by 2 warrant officers in Lavarack Barracks in Townsville. This intimidation, which is occurring particularly in 103 Signal Unit, is designed to break the spirit of young members who are endeavouring to make the Army their career. Will the Minister have this matter investigated immediately? If he desires names, I am prepared to give them to him confidentially. 
In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-72 I present the report relating to the following proposed work: 
Palmerston Arterial Road, Darwin, Northern Territory,. 
Ordered that the report bc printed. 
Is the Minister for Northern Development aware of the many Press reports emanating from overseas that the European Economic Community is opposed to a new international sugar agreement? To what degree can the EEC influence the outcome of the forthcoming international sugar negotiations designed to formulate a new agreement, and does the Minister agree that a new ISA is vital to the stability of the Australian sugar industry? 
asked the Minister for Northern Development, upon notice: 
What are the names of the northern water conservation projects submitted by the Queensland Government to the Commonwealth for financial assistance in the last 5 years. 
What are the names, and relevant dates, of those Queensland water projects for which a Commonwealth evaluation analysis has been (a) started and (b) completed. 
What Commonwealth evaluation reports are available for the above projects and when will they be published or made available to members of Parliament 
I do not want to delay the House. Naturally as the  Chairman  of the Public Work Committee I am in support of its recommendation. But I want to point out to the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  that the road is not a highway; it has a controlled speed limit. The bad planning of the city of Darwin was shown up in the investigations of the Committee in the earlier and later hearings. It is unfortunate that other areas may have to be opened up for access to and egress from Darwin because of the bottleneck that is caused by the poor planning of the city of Darwin. I think that the right decision has been made in this respect. Not only will fewer people be affected by the road but also it is the best route that can be taken. I also feel sure that in the future the people who live in the 2 new subdivisions that will open up nearby will be greatly assisted by the road to get into and out of the city of Darwin. 
My question, which is directed to the Postmaster-General is in connection with television facilities on Mount Bellenden Ker. The Postmaster-General is quite aware of the trials and tribulations which have been experienced in regard to these facilities. An investigating party from his Department has been there and, I believe, already made a recommendation. I ask the Postmaster-General: Was the Mossman area included in that investigation? If the investigators have recommended the installation of translators when will these translators be installed? 
In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1972, I present the report relating to the following proposed work: 
Engineering services, Malak and Karama neighbourhoods, Sanderson district, Darwin, Northern Territory. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Services and Property. Does he see any merit in yesterday's statement by the Leader of the Australian Country Party that moneys paid to political parties and to individual politicians by foreign multi-national corporations should be treated as a tax deduction? Has he heard reports that foreign corporations are paying large sums of money to the Liberal Party of Australia and the Australian Country Party as well as to individual members of those parties because of their willingness to transfer Australia's mineral and energy resources to those foreign interests? If so, does the statement of the Leader of the Country Party amount to a proposal that the people of Australia should be required indirectly to finance the election campaigns of politicians who are firmly committed to a policy which will result in the further erosion of Australian control of Australian resources? 
In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1972, I present the report relating to the following proposed work: 
Research laboratory at North Clayton (Monash), Victoria. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 

 - Mr Speaker, I seek leave to make a short statement. 
I have a few babies in my own electorate but they are quite different from those referred to by the honourable member for Chisholm  (Mr Staley),  the first  speaker  in the Grievance Day debate, and I should like to grieve about a few of them today. I did so previously to the previous Government but was not successful. I refer to the matter of sales tax on freight. This is a discrimination against people living outside the metropolitan areas and I believe it is completely wrong and should be tidied up as quickly as possible. People living outside the metropolitan areas have to pay sales tax on the freight on such things as motor cars and refrigerators. Cairns is more than a thousand rail miles from Brisbane and this tax amounts to a lot of money. It is quite unfair because most of the distributors in that area, and in any of the areas to which I refer are offered a special concessional freight rate by the Queensland Government. Nobody knows what the rate is. Nobody can find out because it is contained in a secret document between the distributor and the Queensland Government. These people certainly receive freight concessions but these concessions are not passed on to the consumer. Therefore, the consumer is paying sales tax on top of money that is not really even paid because the distributor has this concession. The distributor charges the consumer the full amount of freight as if he had purchased the article himself direct from Brisbane. This has been going on for years. It is totally unjust. I feel that the Treasury should look further into the question and try to eliminate the unjust application of sales tax. 
The other matter concerns sales tax on band instruments. We have quite a number of junior bands in Australia and in particular in the north. It is encouraging to see that these young people are keenly interested and give most of their time to studying music and playing the instruments. Why should they be forced to pay sales tax on their instruments? The instruments are used only for band purposes, which are not commercial purposes. The young people do not receive money for their playing as do orchestras. The instruments I am referring to are brass band instruments and not necessarily saxophones or other similar instruments which could be used in orchestras that perform for commercial purposes. Why cannot the junior bands in particular and even the senior bands purchase their instruments free of sales tax. It is hard enough to establish a brass band and keep it going because of the costs involved. Yet, the sales tax has to be paid on top of the purchase price. Brass bands over the years always have been an attraction to the people and have always been in the forefront in any town or city when a function is held. The brass bands voluntarily go to these functions and give their services. I feel the taxation authorities should look at this aspect of sales tax. 
The other matter I wish to raise concerning the Treasury is the tax zone areas. The areas in A zone are still the same as they were drawn originally but they are out of date completely. In one area in my electorate, Mount Garnett, a town which derives its main income from tin mining, has employees working in the A zone but living in the B zone. They do not receive the A zone concession; they pay the B zone rate of tax. They earn their money in the A zone but because the place of employment is on the other side of the river they do not receive the concession. The concession is not only given because of the remoteness of the areas but also because of certain difficulties. These people do not have the services of a resident doctor or dentist and therefore they have to travel hundreds of miles to receive this professional attention and this means time off work. They have to travel to Herberton or Ravenshoe to receive medical attention or dental treatment. I think consideration should be given to this matter. 
Another area which has been drawn to my attention is Irvinebank. It is another mining town in the same circumstance. It has nothing other than a post office and hotel combined. There are no other services whatsoever. There is no medical officer, no dentist and no nursing facilities whatsoever. The residents have to travel 27 miles over a very rough road to Herberton to receive attention. Those residents also are not in the A zone, though they should be. I ask the Treasury to look at these matters. The zones have not been reviewed for many years and it is about time that they were. They are the few grievances I have today but I will have further grievances at a future time. 
I do not wish to waste the time of the House. We will have another opportunity to discuss this matter. The Bill that we are discussing is only to increase to $2m the mandatory limit for works considered by the Joint Statutory Committee on Public Works, although I know that the members of the Committee have expressed the opinion that the limit should be only $1.5m. Personally, I regard $2m as a realistic figure. However, the Senate has added to the work of the Committee the task of examining statutory bodies and I do not know how this Committee will ever get through the work it is supposed to get through. 
I should like firstly to thank the Minister for Housing  (Mr Les Johnson),  a former member of the Public Works Committee, and also my colleagues, the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  and the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Whittorn).  All of the members of the Public Works Committee dedicate themselves to their job and I can say without hesitation that politics has never played a part in any decision that they have made. The Public Works Committee is a watchdog over the expenditure of public moneys. Like the honourable member for Wakefield, I think that a limit of $2m is a reasonable figure. As a matter of fact, of the projects to come before the Public Works Committee for examination, only two come within the category of costing less than $2m. I do not think that that is of great importance when one considers that the Parliament or the Cabinet still has the right to refer any public work, irrespective of cost, to the Public Works Committee. But the figure of $2m suggested by the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  is designed to limit the amount of work that this Committee must do. The Committee cannot meet while the Parliament is sitting. Therefore, it must meet during the recess and all the time that the Committee spends in the recess is spent outside of Committee members' electorates. Consequently, many Committee members would like to have more time to spend in their electorates. 
I shall not go over the whole of the ground again but last session, as the previous Chairman of the Public Works Committee will remember, we had to seek the permission of the Parliament for the Committee to sit while the Parliament was sitting. This can be done, if Parliament agrees. 
No, only the House of Representatives. Permission was granted for the Committee to sit while the Parliament was sitting but the Committee members were not happy about it because debates were going on in Parliament in which they were interested but in which they could not take part or to which they could not even listen. This is not a good thing at all. I would not recommend it for the future. However, we are looking at ways and means of streamlining our procedures when examining projects. 
Already we have introduced some new ideas which will assist the Committee in its work. I do not agree with the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Whittorn)  that we are moving too fast and a lot of work should not be proceeded with because State governments, private enterprise and all the rest are involved. As far as I am concerned every project that is referred to the Public Works Committee is urgent and needed. I refer to sewerage works, power houses, schools, laboratories and so on. Money is not being spent foolishly or unnecessarily. Such projects are necessary for the advancement of our nation. I feel that the work load on the Committee must be kept up. I feel the Committee will be able to do the work provided we can streamline some of the methods which we have adopted in years gone by. If we could streamline the procedures, the references could be considered more quickly. On the question of work of statutory authorities being submitted to the Public Works Committee, I feel sure that the suggestion of the honourable member for Balaclava will be taken into consideration. I feel that a lot of the work of statutory authorities could be dealt with by some authority other than the Public Works Committee. 
I, like my colleagues on the Public Works Committee, feel that a lot of works are being undertaken and public money being spent without the scrutiny of some authority of Parliament. This is not a good thing. It is not right. I think the matter should be looked at. If the work can be handled by the Public Works Committee, well and good. If it cannot be handled by the Committee it should be handled by some other authority from this Parliament. I do not know how such an authority would be set up but these problems can be thrashed out between the Ministers and the Public Works Committee. I feel sure that the Committee can carry on as it has done in the past even if such work is referred to it. We will have to streamline our methods and get through the work as best we can and as quickly as we can and still give it proper consideration. After all it is most important that proposals for the expenditure of public money should be scrutinised to ensure that it is used to the best advantage for the nation. 
Will the Minister for Services and Property state whether, under the proposed amendments to the Electoral Act dealing with the disclosure of political donations, it will be necessary for the names of political parties to be registered? If so, what effect will the change of name in Queensland and Western Australia from the Australian Country Party to the National Party have in regard to this legislation? Will it enable the Country Party to evade publication of donations received to date from multi-national and foreign interests and is it a subterfuge designed for this purpose? If so, will he make certain in the proposed amendments that neither the Country Party nor any other party will, by change of name, be able to evade the provisions of this very much desired reform of the Electoral Act and thus avoid disclosure of the source of its campaign funds? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Secondary Industry. Has his attention been drawn to the statement attributed to the Premier of the State of Queensland accusing the Government of Australia of responsibility for the decision by Comalco Industries Pty Ltd not to proceed at this time with the installation of an alumina refinery at Weipa or somewhere else in Queensland? How much weight should be attached to this accusation? 
Does the Minister for Defence have any information concerning the attitude of the United States of America to his policy of providing information to the parliamentary Opposition on security matters, in particular, the sensitive issue of United States' bases in Australia? 
In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1973, I present the reports relating to the following proposed works: 
Dripstone High School, Darwin, Northern Territory; and Stage 6 Extension of the Stokes Hill Power Station, Darwin. 
Ordered that the reports be printed. 
In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1973. I present the report relating to the following proposed work: 
International Terminal Building and Aircraft Aprons at Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
Can the Minister for Minerals and Energy inform the House as to the current world developments in the pricing of uranium oxide? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Northern Development. Are there any reliable estimates available yet as to the extent of cattle losses experienced in the major breeding areas of the Gulf region of Queensland? Is it a fact that some cattlemen have lost all their cattle as well as fencing, yards and buildings? If this is so, will the Australian Government take immediate action to rehabilitate this area which has suffered so tragically? 
In accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1973, I present the thirty-sixth general report of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I do not know what brought this on. I have never before heard of it. Usually these arguments are raised after a report is presented to Parliament. The honourable member for Perth  (Mr Berinson)  spoke about an open mind. I can assure him that the Public Works Committee - I have been a member of the Committee for a long time - has always had an open mind. What has brought on the emotional aspect, I suppose, can be found in 2 things. Firstly, it is election time in Western Australia - and I will pull no punches as far as that is concerned. Probably this factor has incited the Opposition to raise this argument at this time. The other thing of course gave the Opposition an opening; that is referring a proposal to the Public Works Committee before the necessary documentation has been prepared has never happened before. But this has not breached the Act governing the Public Works Committee. It has not been done before; I admit this. But there is nothing in the Act to say that Parliament cannot do it. The Committee does not determine policy: Policy is determined by the Government. If the Government determines that Parliament shall refer this to the Committee without the documents being ready, that is its business. The only thing affecting the Committee, as far as I am concerned, is that we cannot proceed with this project until the documents are ready. That is all it means. 
I will answer the honourable member for Maranoa (Mr Corbett) later. I do not want to delay the Parliament because it will have another go when the report comes forward. Why was it given now? The honourable member for Maranoa has hit the nail on the head. After all, the Committee is composed of politicians. As a unit at Committee meetings there have been ho divisions on party lines. Nevertheless we are all politicians, therefore everything we deal with is political. So the honourable member for Maranoa should not put his head in the sand like an ostrich and forget about it. Of course, we have political views. But a reference before the Committee is thrashed out by all members. I recall one reference concerning Darwin to which the honourable member for Maranoa referred on which only one member of the Committee was against the proposal. He stood out and his colleagues were not with him They supported the other side - it happened that the other side was in government at the time - and eventually we had to go his way, as he has said. 
Of course the thing is political and that is why it is brought up here. I am not reluctant to say that. Why cannot the Government do it? There is nothing wrong with it. An election is coming up in Western Australia and if some advantage can be gained by this - I doubt very much that there are any votes in it - and the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  thinks so, then why not bring it before the Committee ahead of the elections to let the Western Australians know that the money will be spent in Western Australia? I will be right behind that. But it must be remembered - and the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  must remember it - that the Committee cannot deal with this matter until the documentation is ready. We cannot advertise that the buildings will be constructed, because if we did advertise, anybody interested - that is, those with a community interest, local government interest or individuals - would write to the Secretary and ask for the documentation from the client department and also the documentation by the Department of Housing and Construction so that they could examine' them. That means that all this is delayed until we get those documents, and then they will be made available to the people requiring them. I see nothing wrong with it. It is political and I think that the members on the other side have made it political. I accuse them of making it political in the Parliament. I hope they do not carry on this way within the Committee for if they do, I will be very disappointed in them. 
I am not taking any political side on the question. I shall examine the matter as it comes before the Committee. When a recommendation from the Public Works Committee comes to the Parliament it is not political. In this case a recommendation has been made for Forrest Place. I think the honourable member forgot himself and said Martin Place. A site has to be proposed before the planners can do any drawing or get an idea of what the proposed building is to be like. A site put to the Committee is only a proposed site. Members of the present Public Works Committee might remember the last inquiry we carried out. Three sites were proposed for the Committee to examine - Cocos (Keeling) Island, Christmas Island and Norfolk Island. 
A proposed site has now been referred to the Committee. We have not decided which will be the best site for the building. Sometimes the Committee rejects the proposed site when more suitable sites are available. When the Committee finds out through investigations and from the evidence of various departments that there are other suitable sites we inspect the other sites. In one case, in Wollongong, we objected to the proposed site. Therefore, I see no objection to the Government's putting this proposal before us, except for the fact that the Committee cannot carry on immediately in the usual way; we shall have to wait until the documentation of the proposal is ready. Perhaps the Committee thinks that the proposal is political, but I am not going to hide my head in the sand. I say: If political advantage can be gained by it, why not? The honourable member for Maranoa would do it. Any other politician would do it. If he did not, he would not be a politician's bootlace. 
The Fisheries (Papua New Guinea Boats) Bill is very simple. I did not think that consideration of it would take up much time of the House, but I put my name down to speak in this debate because I thought that honourable members on the other side might take the opportunity to introduce extraneous matters - no matter how important - which are not dealt with in the Bill. This Bill goes along with the wishes of Papua New Guinea, which wishes its fishing boats to be treated as foreign boats. So why should we quibble with the Bill as it is? 
International waters are another question altogether. I knew that my friend the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock)  would try to develop an argument about where the border lies. The border has not been shifted; therefore, the waters remain as they were before. If this question is brought into the House it will be discussed. I agree with you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  when you say that this Bill is very limited indeed. Consideration of it does not require anybody to discuss anything but the vessels fishing in these waters. The de facto situation will be legalised. This is what Papua New Guinea wants. Why should the Australian Government not conform with its wishes if we think they are in the interest of both countries, as we do. Papua New Guinea boats have been fishing in the area for many years; we have never restricted them. International waters are determined at present, and we should not be discussing whether we should alter the boundaries. I agree with the Bill and I support it. 
Has the Minister for Immigration fulfilled his undertaking given to the Parliament on 4 April formallyto ask the Prime Minister to raise with the Premier of Queensland the 7 specific complaints which were made against Queensland police and gaol service personnel by some of the 14 Fijians recently deported from Brisbane? If he has not done so, will he also point out in the letter that the Queensland Minister for Justice,  Mr Knox,  put forward a figure of 30,000 illegal entrants in the past 7 months under the easy visa system and that he was 30 times wrong as the figure is 1,000 or less? 
The honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly),  who is the  Deputy Chairman  of the Public Works Committee, should have known about this matter beforehand. As the  Chairman  of the Committee I did not bring it to the attention of the Committee because it was not my place to do so. The Committee was not asked to look at the matter. There has been a similar occurrence in this respect.. I refer to the Army accommodation project at Townsville. This project was not placed before the Public Works Committee because it is classified as urgent and as being in the best interests of the public. What was so secret about the accommodation proposed for Army personnel at Townsville? I could never work that decision out at all. The contracts for the project were let to people who employed foreigners on the construction. They could work on those buildings and go in and out of the area; yet, the members of the Public Works Committee were not allowed to inquire into the construction of this accommodation. 
The Opposition parties were. I am not sure whether the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  was the Minister for Works at that time. The honourable member for Wakefield has introduced into matters affecting the Public Works Committee an aspect which has never been brought in before - that is, politics. We have tried to keep the work of the Public Works Committee above politics. We endeavoured to do that, even when we were in Opposition. The honourable member for Wakefitld is introducing politics into this Committee, more strongly than anyone else has, since I commenced serving on that Committee. 
I did not bring the matter of the Brisbane Airport project before the Committee today. It was not referred to the Committee. Why should I do so? The honourable member for Wakefield knew as much about the matter as I did, or he should have. All I knew was that the Government was to re-build this international terminal at the Brisbane Airport because it was needed urgently. I wholeheartedly agree that it is needed urgently. The present international terminal is a fire trap and a hazard to the people who use it. I do not believe that there is so much wrong with the suggestion made by the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  that this work is urgently required and that it is not necessary for the project to be referred to the Public Works Committee. 
I regard this work as urgent. I would have liked the project to be referred to the Public Works Committee. But I did not think it was my duty to raise the matter with the Committee at its meeting this morning. The matter was not referred to the Committee by the Government. Why should we argue about a project which will not even be referred to the Public Works Committee? I regret, as I said, that the project was not brought before the Committee. I think there is much to be said for this work being investigated more thoroughly than it has been. But because of the circumstances explained to me by the Minister for Housing and Construction who indicated that this work was urgent I agreed with his proposed course of action. He explained the situation to me. The Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  stressed the urgency for this work because of the present terrible risk to personal life. I agree with this proposal wholeheartedly. I do not think that the Government has done anything wrong at all. I regret that politics has been brought into the Public Works Committee. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Northern Development. I preface it by telling him that I have received telegrams from members of the councils in the Cape York Peninsula area regarding funds for road works. I refer in particular to the roads between Laura and Coen and between Mungana and Wrotham Park. If those roads are the responsibility of the Australian Government, are funds available for such works? If they are the responsibility of the State Government and it does not have the funds for such works, has it approached the Australian Government for financial assistance to complete such works? 
-My question, which is directed to the Minister for Northern Development, refers to fuel supplies for north Queensland. I believe that the 'W. H. Leonard' will not arrive in Cairns until 29th of this month and that it will contain only a small portion of distillate for Cairns and district. Are there any other vessels due in Cairns before or after this date? Industry in the area of Leichhardt is short of fuel, particularly distillate, to enable it to keep operating until the twenty-ninth. I refer to local authorities and the tobacco, timber, fishing and sugar industries. Can the Minister advise me and the people in the area what relief can be expected in the immediate future and what steps have been taken? I know that the Minister has been vitally concerned in this matter. 
-Is the Minister for Northern Development aware of the substantial increases in the world price of nitrogen fertilisers and the growing difficulty of many developing countries to maintain levels of sugar and cereal crop productivity? What steps are being taken to ensure that sufficient supplies of nitrogen fertilisers are available to the sugar industry, the main user of nitrogen fertilisers in Australia? 
-My question is directed to the Acting Prime Minister. What is the significance of the use of natural gas fluids and their conversion to motor spirit? 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Northern Development. Is it a fact that the Premier of Queensland intends to introduce in the Queensland Parliament legislation to prevent the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation operating in Queensland? What effect would that have on federal plans for the development of the great Burdekin Basin? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Northern Development. Is it a fact that growing pressure and even criticism from overseas are being directed at Australia for not taking more positive steps to expand the production of sugar in Australia, particularly in view of the serious world shortage of sugar and the inability of some of the poorer importing countries to pay the current high world prices? 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Northern Development who no doubt is aware of the announcement by President Ford of the United States of America that a global quota will be established for imports of sugar into the United States. Will this action futher accentuate the shortage of sugar that is now causing serious concern to many importing countries, including the United States? 
Br PATTERSON- It is true that  President  Ford of the United States of America has made an announcement which in effect establishes a global quota of 7 million short tons of sugar which can be imported into the United States. The decision was made to ensure that the United States is guaranteed supplies of sugar. The  President  made this decision because of the critical world shortage of sugar. The current United States legislation in regard to sugar is to expire on 3 1 December this year. If the  President  had not taken this action, tariffs on sugar imported into the United States would have had to increase. By making a proclamation which provides for an import quota- in this case a global quota- the  President  has been able to ensure that current tariffs or import duties will remain. So in effect the  President  has taken action to ensure that sugar is imported into the United States at the lowest permissible rates of tariff which can be adopted under the United States laws. 
What the action of the United States President again emphasises is the critical shortage of sugar on world markets. President Ford said: 
Users of sugar can help ease prices by buying wisely, conserving supplies and consuming less sugar. 
He went on to say: 
I urge all Americans to reduce the amount of sugar in cooking and to put in half the amount usually used to sweeten coffee or tea. 
The very serious situation that applies in regard to the supply of sugar is illustrated by the fact that the  President  of the world's most powerful nation is urging Americans to eat less sugar, not because of its qualities but because of the shortage. In view of the free advice that I gave to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition about the qualities of sugar, I am not certain whether I am game enough to advocate that Australians should eat less sugar. 
-Is the Minister for Housing and Construction aware of recent criticism by Queensland's Deputy Premier of the Australian Government's housing policy? Despite the fact that this attack is probably linked to the forthcoming State election in Queensland, can the Minister give the House details of the funds flowing to Queensland for housing, in comparison with the allocations by the previous Federal Government? 
-Is the Minister for Northern Development and Minister for the Northern Territory aware of increasing reports that Australians are sending parcels of sugar in the form of Christmas presents to overseas destinations particularly to Britain where there is a serious shortage of sugar? Because of the substantial difference between the price of sugar in Australia and the price in many overseas countries, what steps are being taken to prevent large amounts of sugar being sent out of Australia to reap profits for dealers or other operators as opposed to the small amounts involved in Christmas presents? 
-Has the Minister for Labor and Immigration seen a report in a privately circulated newsletter which states that the Regional Employment Development Scheme is creating active hostility in rural areas? Does the article cite only one example in the electorate of Leichhardt to back its statement? Can the Minister give the House full details concerning the RED Scheme grants to the electorate of Leichhardt? The Minister knows that I have conferred with him and his Department on many occasions in relation to the RED Scheme. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Defence. Has his attention been drawn to a report alleging that 50 Australian pilots killed prisoners from an American gaol with poison gas bombs in a wartime experiment on an island off Cairns in 1944? Has the Minister investigated these allegations and, if so, what are the results? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Defence. Can he give me any information regarding my representations concerning fishing hazards caused by the apparent dumping of aircraft wreckage in the waters between Dunk Island and Broke Island? 
-Has the Minister for Minerals and Energy received a telegram informing him of a statement made by the General Manager of Dillinghams at a public meeting at Maryborough on 26 May relative to the extent of sand mining on Fraser Island? 
-Has the attention of the Minister for Labor and Immigration been drawn to a statement by the New South Wales State Acting Minister for Local Government,  Mr Punch,  that the Regional Employment Development scheme was the most disgraceful waste of public money he had seen? Is the scheme centrally controlled as claimed? Has it meant that local government and public works in New South Wales have been denied funds for their ordinary works programs? 
-Has the Prime Minister yet been given the courtesy of formal notification of the new Senate appointment for Queensland? Will he see that  Dr Colston  is given full protection against any employment discrimination arising out of his recent ordeal? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Northern Australia, who is the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture. Is there any way in which the Government can assist the sugar industry out of its difficulties caused by seasonal hazards, particularly with next year's crop? 
I preface my question to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs by referring to the allegations which were made last weekend by the Premier of Queensland relating to the activities of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs in relation to the Torres Strait Islands. Has the Minister yet received a report from his Department about those allegations? 
-Has the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs seen a report from Queensland of Saturday, 18 October, about a meeting of Torres Strait Islanders held to discuss the recent charges by the Queensland Premier against the Australian Government of bungling and extravagance in assisting the people of the area? Did the meeting decide to issue a signed statement about the issue raised by the Premier? If so, can the Minister tell the House what the Islanders themselves said about the controversy ignited by the Premier's allegations? 
-Can the Prime Minister give the House any information about changes in Senate representation? 
