I have nothing to add at this time to what is to be found in  His  Excellency's Speech which was delivered in this place approximately J hour ago. 1 suggest that if the Leader of the Opposition wants to use the forms of the Senate he will have an opportunity in the succeeding days to raise the matter by way of debate. The Government's attitude has been expressed quite clearly in the message from the Governor-General this afternoon and it would be singularly inappropriate for me to attempt to add to it at this point of time. 
Naturally, I deprecate the preposterous suggestion that any statement made in the policy speech of the Government parties was calculated merely for the purpose of gaining votes. Since this is the first day of this session I will forgive the honourable senator for that implication. This afternoon in  His  Excellency's Speech there was quite a statement about proposed legislation for this session. In the fourth paragraph at page 13 of the Speech, copies of which have been circulated, the honourable senator will see quite significant forecasts of the legislation and what the Government proposes to do. I suggest that when the legislation does come before this House it will attract quite a spirited debate. I am sure that the Speech contains many points which members of the Opposition do not understand, and they cannot be expected to understand them at present. When they fully understand those points, they will be going as hard as they can to express their appreciation of the Government's proposals. 
I shall direct the honourable senator's question to the Prime Minister for reply. My understanding of the general position is that in the United States there was a very strong move to adopt the Australian method of conscription for national service. It was considered that the Australian method had much more to commend it than other methods being employed. However, it is a fair question that should be directed so that a considered reply can be obtained from the Prime 
Minister's Department. I shall set out to obtain the information for the honourable senator. 
I am aware that  Sir Robert  Thompson is in Australia. I certainly shall see what can be done so that the Opposition - notably the Leader of the Opposition - and others in the hierarchy of the Australian Labour Party, can be made aware of his views. 
The Government does not accept in the slightest the suggestion that there has been any violation by it of the Charter of the United Nations in the case referred to. A question has already been asked today of the Minister representing the Attorney-General in relation to one, Burchett. The Minister has chosen to have the question placed on notice. Therefore 1 will not be drawn into making any comment until that question has been answered in the normal way. 
The honourable senator admits that his question is identical in substance to a question asked earlier. The earlier question has been placed on notice. The Senate will sit tomorrow andI am sure the honourable senator will be in attendance. It may well be that an answer to his question will be given tomorrow. 
I do not want to give an answer at question time to the honourable senator's inquiry because in doing so I might cause hurt or false anticipation. I think the proper thing for me to do is have the question placed on notice and submitted to the Treasurer for a considered reply. As the honourable senator knows, there is a reference in the Governor-General's Speech to the fact that the Commonwealth intends to intercede and to act for the States in relation to the collection of the tax. The question of refinement about taxes that have already been paid, and indeed paid under protest, raises a very real and important issue which, I think, warrants a considered reply from the Treasurer. 
The honourable senator has accepted excerpts from a statement made by an honourable member in another place and has made judgments on them. I certainly would not make any comment about a statement that I read in the Press unless I had had the advantage of reading the full text of what had been said. I am sure that principle should be applied to statements that sometimes are attributed to members of the Opposition. 
The Department of Supply has a huge fleet of vehicles which it provides in every State of the Commonwealth, but it does not provide vehicles in the Australian Capital Territory. Matters relating to the fleet of vehicles in the ACT come under the jurisdiction of the Minister for the Interior. 
It is true that a decision has been taken to proceed with Project N in relation to prototypes and that an amount of money - speaking from memory, it is $3.2 million- has been set aside for the building of the prototype Project N aircraft. I did issue a Press statement at the time- 
It was a Press statement under my name. The honourable senator is being very offensive. The statement was issued under my name; so flippancy is unwarranted in these circumstances. This is a serious matter, and I am answering a serious question. I point out to  Senator Poyser,  who has shown a particular interest in this matter, that a decision - a significant decision - has been taken, and that decision will be of vast importance to the technical and design people in the Government Aircraft Factories and the aircraft industry in Australia. It involves the building of prototype aircraft. I will see that before the evening is out a copy of the statement I made at the time is made available to the honourable senator. 
I agree that it would be most improper for a public servant to attempt, outside of his responsibility, to influence a decision of government. He is there clearly as an adviser to government. The honourable senator asks, in effect: If a statement is nagged in the Press, why is it not denied? He has had a long experience in political life and he would know, as would all of us in this place, that if one devoted one's time to chasing and denying or agreeing with all the statements that are made in the Press one would have very little else to do. The fact of the matter is that political writers choose to try to anticipate decisions and sometimes they attribute to people things that are not necessarily true. I would say that unless a statement is made in categorical terms and speaks of a certain person it is quite wrong to assume that a government has made a decision or is being influenced to make a decision by a public servant. 
As to the actual Treaty itself, Australia signed the Treaty on 27th February in each of the three depository capitals - London, Washington and Moscow. At the time of the signing we circulated to other governments a statement by the Australian Government setting out the matters that would have to be resolved before Australia could proceed to ratification. Indeed, a Press statement has been made and a document accompanied the Treaty. I do not think that at question time I need to elaborate on that. I think it is sufficient to say that although Australia signed the Treaty it has its reservations. 
I shall have the reservations incorporated in Hansard. I would say that never at any stage has there been any departure from the view expressed by the Government that it did have reservations, which it still has. However, it feels that the signing of the Treaty by some other nations, notably West Germany and Japan, provides a prospect for the ultimate success of the Treaty. 
by leave - I feel sure that all honourable senators will join with me in expressing congratulations to  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack who was honoured by  Her  Majesty the Queen in the 1970 New Year Honours List.  Sir Magnus  has had a long and distinguished career in the service of Australia in peace and in war and I am sure all will agree with me that this gracious honour from  Her  Majesty was richly deserved. 
Very properly, I have some information in relation to the situation in Laos but, at the same time- 
Let me finish. 
 I will make inquiries and let the honourable senator have an answer. 
I am bound to admit that I encouraged  Senator Davidson  to ask this question because it concerns special information of current, importance. It is true that a United Kingdom Black Arrow satellite launch vehicle was successfully flight tested today from the Department of Supply's Weapons Research Establishment range at Woomera. Today's was the second of three developmental firings aimed at proving the rocket's ability to inject satellites into the close earth orbit. The present trial proved the structure of the three stage vehicle and demonstrated satisfactory performance of the liquid rocket motors in the first and second stages. The performance of all third stage systems was also tested, except for the propulsion system which will be used in subsequent launchings to inject the satellite accurately into orbit. The first launch took place on 28th June last when the vehicle had to be destroyed after 1 minute due to a technical failure. The next launch, which is planned for about mid-1970, will use a live third stage motor and will attempt to put a test satellite into the near polar orbit. The Black Arrow project is managed by the British Ministry of Technology. 
The assumptions made by the honourable senator are quite inconsistent with the facts as I know them and indeed as stated by  His Excellency  the Governor-General in his Speech from the Throne in this place yesterday.  His Excellency  quite clearly pointed out that to the extent that there will be future withdrawals of troops from Vietnam by the United States consideration will be given to the withdrawal of Australian forces. It is quite unreal, indeed it shows a lack of appreciation of the problems of war, to pick out in isolation a very sad incident in a war which we all regret is costing lives. 
As I understand it, the tragedy which occurred a few days ago was an isolated incident which did regrettably cost lives; but to try to bring that into the main argument as to future planning of the war, I repeat, is quite unreal and, with great respect, shows a complete lack of understanding of the problems of the Vietnam conflict. The answer to the honourable senator's question as to the Government's intention in this matter is contained in the GovernorGeneral's Speech. 
Dealing first with the last part of the honourable senator's question, I would say that the outcome, if successful in the long term, could provide a tremendous fillip to the Australian aircraft industry. It is true that a team of executives from the Boeing company has been and is in Australia. It is true also (hat members of the team have visited the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation, Government Aircraft Factories and, I understand, Hawker de Havilland in Sydney. ft is equally true that my Department has been in close collaboration with them during these visits. All this began through the collaboration of the Department of Supply with the Department of Trade and Industry and had its genesis really in an Australian delegation which went to the United States for the purpose of looking generally at the situation and then looking in particular at some specialised areas where we could get an offset in relation to our defence activities. 
As a result of the collaboration which has taken place between my Department and the Department of Trade and Industry we have been able to get the necessary information from members of the United States team and to put them in touch with a series of Australian industries which may be in a position to tender for certain equipment. This process is a long hard haul. I do not want to stand in this place and suggest that we can press a button and automatically gain offset orders. The present process is within the pattern which was established so firmly by the former Minister for Defence,  Sir Allen  Fairhall, some years ago and within the pattern which has been developed, within our capabilities, within my own Department and within the Department of Trade and Industry to get orders as we can and wherever we can. I am grateful for the opportunity to respond to the question because I believe that Australians have the capability and that our Australian industry is becoming more and more capable in terms of technology. I am hopeful that as a result of this visit good will come which will be to the distinct advantage ultimately of the Australian aircraft industry. 
It is my understanding that consequent upon legislation which passed through this place special tariff concessions are granted to what we call, I think - I am groping for the word - garden industries; in other words, very small industries in underdeveloped countries. Australia provides quite a definite tariff concession for underdeveloped countries. The honourable senator used the word barter'. That word can have a very wide variety of applications. It is true to say that Australia is very aware of the need for trade with underdeveloped countries, and it is equally true to say that we are doing probably more than any other country in the world in that regard. If I remember the debate at the time, I was able to inform the Senate that we were leading the world in our efforts to make trading arrangements with the kind of countries to which the honourable senator has referred. 
1 am not aware whether the Commonwealth has been informed officially of a proposed demonstration nor would I imagine that it would be necessary for any Australian Minister, any Government senator or any Government member on the back bench of the House of Representatives to attend a demonstration to become aware of the affairs of the rural industries in Australia. All I can say is that if certain rural groups are to have a demonstration in Melbourne or anywhere else I am sure it will be an orderly demonstration. Such a demonstration is their inherent right. 
Fill AIRCRAFT 
Dealing first with the second question asked by the honourable senator, the situation of offset orders for the commercial side of the Australian aircraft industry is not within my direct ministerial responsibility. However, I believe that if we can promote the climate we are striving to achieve it will be a natural follow-on in the broad approach to offset procurement. The answer to the honourable senator's first question is that I did say I would make a statement on the matter. It is also true that the answer I gave to  Senator Greenwood  is part of the story of proceedings. A very high level delegation led, as I recall, by  Sir Ian  McLennan, went te the United States of America. A number of captains of industry in this field were members of the delegation. I would be the first to agree with  Senator Bishop  that it would be far more appropriate for a comprehensive statement to be made in the Senate on this issue. An honourable senator could move that the Senate take note of the statement, which could be made the subject of an informative debate so that we could all be better advised on what is happening in this field. I have some information on a piece of paper but I do not think it provides the answer sought in the broad terms of  Senator Bishop's  question. 1 have taken on board what the honourable senator has asked and I will have my people prepare a comprehensive and up to date report of the position of the Austraiian aircraft industry and the general position in respect of defence procurement. 
Matters relating to poverty are within the responsibility of a number of portfolios, including Social Services, Health and Education and Science. The Government intends to introduce in the forthcoming session a series of proposals which will deal in many ways with what might be regarded as pockets of poverty or of less affluence. I believe that the history of this Government shows that it has directed its attention to the need for ameliorating the conditions of the less fortunate people in the community. I do not believe that there is a need for a governmental inquiry. I understand that various groups, all with good intentions, have set up bodies and have made a study of this problem. We have access to their reports. As I recall it, these reports have been the subject of debate in this chamber. I do not believe that there is a need for the type of inquiry that the honourable senator proposes. . That is not to say that the Government will cease to be vigilant in what it regards as the necessary action to be taken in any given situation. 
I also must admit that I heard the interjection when the previous question was asked. It implied that an Australian owned oil company was very remiss because it employed some overseas organisation in relation to advertising. I think that  Senator Marriott's  question demonstrated the folly of the interjection. 
The honourable senator has asked me to express an opinion on a matter of policy, which of course it would be quite wrong for me to do. I think it is sufficient to say that over a long period of years the Australian Government has consistently had regard to the special problems of primary industry. It has had regard to the problems of various primary industries - the dairy industry, the wheat industry, the wool industry, the dried fruit industry and any other industry that one cares to name. On the statute book there are various forms of legislation which is calculated to give special assistance to the man on the land. Indeed in the legislative programme for the present sittings special consideration will be given to primary producers in relation to probate duties, lt would be quite wrong for me to give any encouragement in any suggestion or comment that. I might make in relation to the possibility of a special lower interest rate for primary industry. This is a matter of fiscal policy. I will refer it to the Treasurer. I can do no more than that. 
Earlier in question time  Senator Laucke  asked me a question about barter arrangements to which I gave an answer in part. I now have some further information and I can tell him that the Government takes every opportunity to obtain improved access for our primary products in markets around the world. In addition, the statutory marketing authorities for primary products are themselves making strenuous efforts to expand and develop market opportunities. The Government's attitude is that as a major trading nation Australia gains more from multilateral trading arrangements. The Commonwealth Government itself does not engage, in overseas trading activities and would not itself enter into barter arrangements. That is the point I want to bring out. However, this does not mean that barter arrangements between private trading organisations are not permitted. There are no regulations which preclude barter arrangements between private trading organisations provided that they comply with the requirements laid down by the exchange control authorities of the Reserve Bank. 
Yesterday in response to a question by, I think.  Senator McManus,  I spoke about the Nuclear NonProliferation Treaty.  Senator Murphy,  the Leader of the Opposition, invited me to table the accompanying document. I agreed that it would be desirable to incorporate in Hansard the statement made by the Government on the occasion of the signing of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty. With the concurrence of honourable senators I incorporate the statement. It is as follows: 
STATEMENT BY THE GOVERNMENT OF AUSTRALIA ON THE OCCASION OF THE SIGNING OF THE NUCLEAR NONPROLIFERATION TREATY 
The Government of Australia: 
Supports effective international measures to counter the spread of nuclear weapons and weapons of mass destruction. In April 1968 when the treaty to prevent the further spread of nuclear weapons was introduced in the United Nations General Assembly Australia supported the resolution commending the treaty for the consideration of governments. 
Is conscious of the fact that in the long run the security of the world as a whole will depend upon effective measures to control the nuclear arms race and to bring about general and complete disarmament. The Government therefore welcomes the call in Article VI of the treaty for negotiations to achieve these ends. 
Hopes [hat the treaty will be effective in its operation and will lead to improved relationships and enhanced co-operation between the nations of the world, and in particular between the nations of the Asian and Pacific region. 
Believes that a condition of an effective treaty is that it should attract a necessary degree of support. Some progress in this direction has been made but the Government will nevertheless want to be assured that there is a sufficient degree of support for the treaty. 
Regards it as essential that the treaty should not affect continuing security commitments under existing treaties of mutual security. 
Attaches weight to the statements by the governments of the United States, United Kingdom and the Soviet Union declaring their intention to seek immediate Security Council action to provide help to any nonnuclear weapons State party to the treaty that is subject to aggression or the threat of aggression with nuclear weapons. At the same time the Government reaffirms its adherence to the principle, contained in Article 51 of the Charter of the United Nations, of the right of individual or collective self-defence if an armed attack occurs against a member of the United Nations, until the Security Council has taken measures necessary to maintain international peace and security. 
Notes that Article 10 of the treaty provides that any party has the right to withdraw in circumstances that jeopardised its supreme interests, 
Notes that the treaty will in no way inhibit and is in fact designed to assist non-nuclear weapon States in their research, development and use of nuclear energy and nuclear explosions for peaceful purposes either individually or collectively; nor must it discriminate against any State or States in their peaceful pursuits in nuclear activities. 
Considers that the safeguards agreement to be concluded by Australia with the International Atomic Energy Agency in accordance with Treaty ArticleIII must in no way subject Australia to treatmentless favourable than is accorded to other States which, individually or collectively, conclude safeguards agreements with that Agency. 
Considers it essential that the inspection and safeguards arrangements should not burden research, development, production and use of nuclear energy for peaceful purposes: that they should not constitute an obstacle to a nation's economic development, commercial interests and trade; and that they should be effective in ensuring that any breaches of the treaty would be detected. 
Attaches importance to a review of the I.A.E.A. safeguards system and procedures to clarify those issues of importance to Australia. 
Welcomes the fact that the treaty in Articles 4 and 5 provides for international cooperation for the development of the peaceful uses of nuclear energy and the peaceful applications of nuclear explosions; notes the assurances that under the treaty the supply of knowledge, materials and equipment would not be denied to any party; and considers it important that no nuclear development should be prohibited except when such activities would have no other purpose than the manufacture of nuclear weapons or other nuclear explosive devices. 
Will co-operate closely with other governments in seeking clarifications and understandings in relation to those matters which must be resolved before Australia could proceed to ratification, being convinced that a treaty which was truly effective in preventing the further proliferation of nuclear weapons would be a major contribution to the security of the world as a whole. 
The statement sets out the Government's basic attitude in regard to the Treaty and indicates its outstanding concerns. It was handed over at the signing ceremonies in London, Washington and Moscow and has been formally communicated by Australian heads of mission to other governments. An important point that I want to bring out is this: It will be noted that the use of the word 'reservations' has been avoided. This is a technical term in relation to thelaws of treaties which is applicable to ratification of a treaty rather than signature. At the time of ratification it is sometimes possible for countries to put forward formal reservations in regard to the actual provisions of a treaty. The validity of such reservations depends, however, upon whether they are allowable under the terms of the treaty and have been accepted by the other parties to the treaty. There is no provision under the Non-Proliferation Treaty for such reservations. In short, the Government has made a statement of matters on which it will need to be satisfied before ratification in the light of the knowledge that it will not be possible to make reservations at the time of ratification. Having said that, I now also table the document that I agreed to table yesterday. 
by leave - I want to make it perfectly clear that at present we do not have any procedure for sittings and therefore it will be necessary for us to come to a decision reasonably soon for the good management and conduct of the Senate proceedings. Nevertheless, I do not see any objection to standing these motions over until tomorrow. There is one critical matter in relation to General Business and Government Business but since, under the Standing Orders, we cannot have General Business until the Address-in-Reply debate has been completed there is no immediate urgency in relation to the resolution of that matter. Speaking as Leader of the Government in the Senate, I would be perfectly happy to agree that we stand these matters over and I will bring them on after question time tomorrow. That will give an opportunity for consultation and for views to be expressed in the normal way by Leaders, Whips and members of the Senate generally. 
I would like to make some contributions in relation to the broad canvas of the points outlined by  Senator Murphy.  We have to remember that primarily we have a bicameral system of government; we have two Houses of Parliament. Even with the best will in the world and the freedom which we choose to assert as honourable senators, I do not think we can ignore the fact that we need to work in conjunction with another place. Therefore, whilst we very properly reserve the right unto ourselves to talk in terms of the hours that we work, we must have regard to the situation as it relates to another place. Under our democratic processes we have a procedure for dealing with messages, Bills, amendments and the like. Even with the best will in the world we cannot act completely in isolation from the set of procedures that exist in another place and the times at which that place works. 
That is so. To this point of time  Senator Murphy  has not put bis full point of view. On the broad canvas, we must have regard to the fact that we are linked with the procedures and times of the other place. The second point that we have to realise is that we have an executive system of government and therefore we must have regard to Cabinet considerations.  Senator Murphy  suggests that we work a 5-day week for 2 weeks with 1 week off instead of working a 3-day week for 3 weeks with 1 week off. As I see the honourable senator's suggestion, we would have a concentrated dose of sittings and then, necessarily, a break period. I wonder whether that would be more damaging to the ultimate health and happiness of honourable senators than the system which we operate at present. After all, bear in mind that the Senate has itself set its heart against these long sittings after 11 p.m. lt is only under the exigencies of special Government requirements that we have had long sittings. I think that that gentleman's agreement has worked reasonably well. Most of that old government by exhaustion process which was complained of in the bad old days has vanished. I was just wondering whether, in a huge continent like Australia, where honourable senators need to leave home possibly the. day before the Senate meets to get to Canberra and in some instances need a day or a day and a half to get home when the Senate rises, the proposition of having a 5-day sitting week is really practicable and whether, in fact, it has proper regard for our constituency commitments. It has always been my understanding that we are able to see constituents on Monday and Friday and possibly do the things which are an integral part of our responsibility. Those are my reactions to what  Senator Murphy  has put to us. I am perfectly willing to adjourn this matter after some debate today and bring it on again tomorrow so that honourable senators can have a look at it overnight and reflect upon it. 
Obviously, the question is a legal one and should be directed to the Minister representing the Attorney-General who, I am sure, would ask that it be put on notice. 
-I would like some explanation of that notice of motion because, frankly, I have not been informed in advance of this. 1 have no advice of what it applies to and I do not know whether it cuts across a motion which I propose to introduce, on notice, at a later hour of the morning. 
-I am aware, and the Government certainly is aware, of the proposed April moratorium. 1 do not think there is any doubt that the intention of those connected with the moratorium is to put a point of view which is in complete conflict with the Government's point of view on Australia's participation in and contribution to the defence of South Vietnam. In conjunction with other nations, notably the United States of America, we wish to ensure that the people of South Vietnam have the right to live under a system of democracy, with free elections and all the freedoms that we in this country particularly enjoy. 
I am not informed as to whether or not certain dissident groups have indicated that they will demonstrate and will not give any assurance that the demonstration will be consistent with the laws of the land, but I can say that every self-respecting Australian citizen must deplore any proposal by which people will not conform with the laws of Australia. In any other language, such a course of action is straight out anarchy. Nobody in his right senses or with any sense of responsibility as a citizen could tolerate such a proposition. 
There is reference in the Governor-General's Speech, which we are currently debating, to the Commonwealth's interceding to assist -ho States in the collection of the receipts tax. 
The honourable senator is asking the Commonwealth Government to intercede in relation to a time when the tax was within the responsibility of the States. I have an impression that this matter would be strictly within the sovereignty and responsibility of the States. As I understood the question, the honourable senator was suggesting that the Commonwealth should choose to accept some responsibility in relation to the tax for the period before the Commonwealth came into the situation. This follows, in substance, the question which I was asked on Tuesday and which I asked an honourable senator to put on notice. The question now asked by  Senator Laucke  relates to that earlier question and it also should go on notice so that a reply may be obtained from the Treasurer. However, it needs to be made quite clear that the Commonwealth's responsibility is not applicable to what happened when the States imposed the tax, the legality of which has been affected, in part if not in whole, by the High Court ruling. Nevertheless, I shall .obtain a considered reply from the Treasurer. 
I shall deal with the last part of the Leader of the Opposition's question first. Nothing I have said should be construed  as  meaning that there is any law in Australia against peaceful demonstrations. I think Hansard will confirm this in regard to my reply to the question asked by  Senator Greenwood.  I believe that the Leader of the Opposition is strictly out of order in casting reflections on a person in another place whom he has not named. The other day in reply to a question which was in much the same terms as the first part of the Leader of the Opposition's question, I cautioned that there should be some restraint on the basis that it would be well to see in complete context what anybody says before making any judgment. That applies to honourable senators opposite. 
I am sure all honourable senators are aware that there is an International Grains Arrangement. No doubt the honourable senators question impinges upon aspects of that Arrangement. Therefore, I think the proper thing for me to do is to direct his question to the Minister for Trade and Industry and obtain a reply. Some of the aspects he has raised may go beyond the responsibility of the Minister for Trade and Industry and come within the responsibility of the Minister for External Affairs. If that is the case I shall ensure that his question is properly directed so that he will receive a comprehensive answer. 
It would be very unwise for me at question time to give answers as to the details and obligations of treaties. Very properly, I will treat that part of the honourable senator's question as being on notice. Yesterday, in answering a question about Laos, I drew attention to the situation as I saw it there on the basis of information given to me by the Department of External Affairs. I have no doubt in the world that a threat is being posed to Laos from the north at the moment and that this is a demonstration of the realities of the domino theory. I also believe that there can be no doubt that a threat to Laos is a threat to South Vietnam and to the free people of the South East Asian region, because it is a movement governed by the principles of the domino theory. As to the precise provisions of a particular treaty, I think it is proper for me to get a reply from the Department of External Affairs and table it in the Senate. 
It is true that  Dr Paine,  the Administrator of the NASA, was in Australia several weeks ago. I had a conference with him and he spoke also about the NASA programme to the heads of the various departments and other appropriate people. I think that it would be far more appropriate for me to make a considered statement on the programme because what might happen in deep space or outer space in the years ahead is a fascinating prospect. 
It is true that the communication stations are within the Woomera complex, but they are isolated from the Woomera function. They would not be in any way linked to the broad NASA programme. But I should like to put some information down on paper because the question involves looking into the realities of the future, what will happen in deep space in the future and whether we will have a shuttle service. The old concept involved putting a vehicle into the air and its being expendable in outer space, and eventually putting a satellite on one of the planets or on the moon. This concept will be superseded by a form of shuttle service. In our lifetime, men may well be making 30 million-mile journeys into outer space which might last for approximately 9 months. They will travel in a series of vehicles and will transfer from one vehicle to another vehicle in outer space. It is a very wonderful and fascinating story, and is a very important one for Australia because we will play a role in it. 
 The honourable senator asks a series of questions that reflect on the fiscal policy of the Commonwealth and, indeed, of the States in their sovereignty. The argument about the impact of governmental growth and development is not new. It has gone on for as long as I can remember and has always been a matter for consideration. Perhaps this is a simple thing to say, but I suggest that no government goes into growth just for growth's sake. If the Commonwealth has a project and it responds to the States under section  96,  if you like, and gives them money for development, it does so because it believes that the development is in the best interests of the country and the people.  So  it is only a matter of priorities that the honourable senator is really arguing about. Normally we deal with the financial structure of the Commonwealth at 
Budget time, and every government has regard to the governmental content of the economy whenever it forms a Budget.  So  all I can say to the honourable senator is that the factors he brings out are ones that are always before government and are before it with particular emphasis when Budgets are being considered. 
The AddressinReply debate which is before the Senate quite clearly covers the question of the Commonwealth moving to assert its sovereignty from the low water mark. This will establish a situation in which, if such sovereignty is under challenge, there will be a vehicle to attend to the matter. The Commonwealth is taking sovereignty and that, of course, establishes a positive situation, whereas before there was never a positive situation. I am not currently in a position to reply to the question of what degree of conference there was between the States and the Commonwealth. I will seek some information about that. I do know that down through history since Federation and, indeed, more currently during the last 2 or 3 years when significant things have been happening at sea in Australian waters quite a lot of discussion has taken place between the Commonwealth and the States, notably in relation to Queensland, concerning marine life, the problem of fisheries around the coast and the search for oil. I will obtain an answer for the honourable senator in relation to the degree of conference that has taken place. 
A meeting of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation Defence Planning Committee on 3rd December 1969 adopted general guidelines for the possible technical use of nuclear weapons in defence of the NATO Treaty area. These guidelines were based upon NATO's policy of flexible response which was adopted by that organisation in December 1967. This policy represents a considerable modification of the previous strategy of massive retaliation in the event of attack. It means that all levels of aggression or threats of aggression from Warsaw Pact countries, which include Czechoslovakia and Poland, will be met with a flexible and balanced range of conventional and nuclear responses. These responses are designed to preserve peace and deter aggression and, if aggression occurs, to maintain the security of the countries of western Europe, Britain, Canada and the United States. Finally, the Australian Government is not a member of NATO and, consequently, does not participate in its decisions. Nevertheless, the Australian Government continues to give general support to the efforts of its allies and friends in NATO to preserve peace and security. 
I cannot anticipate the form and shape of the legislation and give categorical answers during question time. The legislation will come into this chamber very soon and I suggest that that is one aspect of it which will be revealed at that time. 
Every honourable senator has the right to express his view on what a Bill contains but it would be very bad practice for me to presume to anticipate the shape and form of proposed legislation. 
The normal procedure if the matter is one of national calamity is that under certain conditions the Commonwealth will intercede when representations are made by the Premier of the State concerned. This is a guideline that we all know fairly well. I am not aware of any representations having been made butI will certainly seek information and make it available to the honourable senator. 
I would have thought that matters of transport, the control of traffic and the by-laws of a city or country area would be within the sovereignty of the States. The fact that we have Commonwealth undertakings in the States does not mean that we have laws relating to the control of traffic to suit ourselves. I believe that what goes on near a vehicle in front of a bank is hardly a matter for the national Parliament. 
by leave - First of all I wish to make it clear that in relation to making a copy of the statement available to the leaders of parties perhaps I was remiss in not speaking to  Senator Dame  Annabelle Rankin about that. This is something that is evolving at the present time. Yesterday, for instance, I did contact  Senator Wright  and indicate to him that it would be appropriate, if it was possible, to make copies of statements available to the leaders of parties. That practice will be followed in the future. All Ministers will do that, where possible. Of course, it is not -always possible, because we act for other Ministers. But, to the best of our ability, we will do that. 
The second point I wish to make is that  Senator Murphy  exercised his right. as. a leader, in the first place, and also as a senator to speak on the statement. Naturally, what he has said has excited the interest of other senators who wish to speak on it. I just wonder whether we could have a look at this procedure. If we do not do so we may have a situation in which we will be debating statements without having provided for it in our planning for the day. In this case  Senator Murphy  did not say anything that would provoke a long debate, but we could easily have a situation in which we could debate a statement all day. 
I would like to confer with leaders of parties on whether we should not have a system under which the Minister, when he presents a statement, or somebody else moves that the Senate take note of it so that wc can have a set debate at a time of our own choosing when everybody has been alerted to it. Without such a procedure, it may happen that an honourable senator who wants to speak on such a matter, thinking that there will be a debate when the paper is tabled, misses an opportunity. For that reason I make the point that I would like to talk with  Senator Murphy,  perhaps with his  deputy, Senator Willesee  and, indeed, with the Acting Leader of the Democratic Labor Party,  Senator McManus,  about whether or not the Senate should consider formulating some suitable procedure for the handling of these statements. 
by leave - In order to lay the ground for this debate 1 remind the Senate that yesterday we had a discussion of sessional orders. From the discussion emerged views that were held by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy), Senator Willesee,  who also made a contribution, and  Senator McManus.  It was agreed that the matter should stand over until today. In the intervening period I have had an opportunity to talk about sessional orders in my conclave of senators and I have an idea that the Leader of the Opposition also has discussed them in his conclave. I am referring particularly to items 1, 2, 3, and 4 on the business paper. Also I have had the advantage of hearing the proposal mentioned by  Senator Willesee  yesterday during the debate. 
I suggest that we need to have sessional orders for the management of the business of the Senate. Therefore, I propose to move the four sessional orders as they are set out on the business paper. In doing soI give an assurance, which I want to be quite clear, that I shall take this matter up within the Government parties and have discussions, not only with honourable senators but also with members of another place, to see whether there are views that could possibly alter the resolutions that I propose to move. It occurs to me that the Opposition parties also would want to have discussions beyond the perimeter of their Senate responsibilities. I make it abundantly clear that whilst I move a resolution relating to the sessional orders, it should not be understood in any way that I am not nor is the Government dogmatic about their remaining as the sessional orders. The Senate is master of its own destiny.I would not frustrate any resolution or series of resolutions which may come forward during this session and which may purport to alter the sessional orders. 
The adoption of the sessional orders now proposed would merely give us a modus operandi for the time being and would permit further discussion if there were a feeling among honourable senators that the sessional orders should be varied. To be completely frank about it, 1 feel bound to say that in the conclave of my Senateparty this morning the general body of opinion-: it was not unanimous - was that the sitting times that we have adopted have proved to be the most likely to succeed; but there are other views. There could be a multiplicity of variations to the times proposed. It might be suggested that it would be better to sit for 8 days within 2 weeks and then have 1 week off. Perhaps other variations will be suggested. We cannot resolve that matter today. My suggestion is that we adopt the proposed sessional orders for the lime being. I give the assurance that if it emerges that the sessional orders should be varied we will bring the matter on again for debate. 
Here again I am being invited to comment on something which must be taken from a complete text and I would not like to make a judgment on this until I see it in full. 
As far as 1 know, both the Australian Broadcasting Commission and the commercial stations will combine to give a coverage of the Royal tour. I was not aware that the whole or any part of the coverage will not extend to Western Australia, lt may be that some technical reasons are involved. 1 shall seek to ascertain those reasons and let the Senate and the honourable senator know the result.  I  will ask the Prime Minister whether there is any possibility of his interceding to ensure that coverage, if not a wide coverage, of the whole tour is given to Western Australia. J believe that some special technical reasons must exist within the PostmasterGeneral's Department which preclude this coverage. 
Quite clearly the honourable senator is asking for an opinion or a judgment of the Treasurer. I therefore suggest that he place his question on the notice paper. My understanding of the assessment of rentals of rural properties is that it is across the board. However, if the honourable senator places his question on the notice paper I will get for him a considered reply from the Treasurer. 
Earlier today,  Mr President, Senator Branson  asked me a question about the television coverage in Western Australia of the coming Royal visit to Australia. The Minister for Housing, who represents the Postmaster-General in this chamber, has now supplied me with supplementary information which I am sure all honourable senators will want to have. The Government is making the necessary arrangements to enable Western Australia to receive two live telecasts via the Pacific Ocean satellite during the Royal visit. In consultation with the Australian Broadcasting Commission and the Federation of Commercial Television Stations it has been agreed that the events to be telecast direct to Western Australia should be the Queen's arrival in Sydney and the Anzac Day ceremonies in Canberra. The Commonwealth will meet the satellite charges for these two transmissions. Coverage of other Royal visit events will be available to Western Australia on film and videotape. 
The Premier of South Australia has submitted a list of projects for consideration for financial assistance under the Commonwealth national water resources development programme, and included in the list is a project involving a water pipeline to Kimba. This project will receive consideration by the Commonwealth along with other projects submitted by the 
Premier of South Australia and by other Premiers. It is not possible to indicate when a decision will be available because of the number of projects in the process of being submitted by the States and the necessary studies involved; but a decision will be made as early as possible. 
Despite the fact that the honourable senator has quoted from what I said, he has still taken the words out of context They have to be read in relation to the question as it was posed. The question related to the loss of nine of our servicemen who were tragically killed in what I chose to call at that time an isolated incident. I meant, of course, that they were killed in one incident - not in a battle or an action, but in one isolated incident. Having said that and having cleared the honourable senator's mind on that point, let me say that everybody would regret profoundly the loss of life. On both sides of the chamber there are senators who during their lives have been confronted personally with such a situation. 1 think it is quite unfair for the honourable senator to try to suggest, by inference, that I am immune to that sort of feelings. I assure him F have as many feelings as he or anybody else has in that regard. 
It is said that confession is good for the soul. I must confess that my reading has not gone so far as this morning's edition of the Queensland Courier-Mail'. The remarks quoted by the honourable senator as having been utter-ed by  Mr Chalk  are, I could understand, in line with arguments relating to Commonwealth and State relations advanced prior to the Premiers Conference which was held several weeks ago. Various Premiers have since expressed the view that it may well be that, following the conference, circumstances have changed for the Commonwealth, the Prime Minister and the Treasurer. The true position is that a new agreement is to be negotiated between the Commonwealth and the States before 30th June. It is equally true that Commonwealth and State Treasury officials are currently examining proposals for a new set of arrangements to operate as from 1st July this year. In all the circumstances I suggest that it would be premature for me to comment. I am quite certain that what will emerge will maintain Commonwealth responsibility for the overall economy of Australia and will preserve the necessary sovereignty of the States. 
There is no question about the friendly relations between Australia and Malaysia and Singapore. How the honourable senator connects that part of his question to the first part of his question I am not quite clear. I know that Australia has implemented the United Nations sanctions. I know too that it would be very unwise for anyone to make a harsh judgment of a person on the basis of reading only part of the statements attributed to that person. 
The honourable senator is talking to one of the converted when it comes to daylight saving. I have always been an advocate of daylight saving and will remain so. As to the point he made relating to the automotive industry, it is true to say that when the Senate select committee dealt with the problem of road safety one of the points that were brought out quite strongly in its recommendations was that it has been established all over the world that the casualty rate is significant in the twilight period. There is no doubt - and I think it can be accepted, as the honourable senator and the automotive industry have indicated - that there is an above normal critical period towards evening. All I can say is that I hope that when the Premiers Conference reassembles those present will decide that the States will co-operate in introducing what we choose to call 'summer daylight saving'. Tasmania has it and I would have thought that if Tasmania, which is the most southern State of the continent, could have it with the overwhelming support of the people of that State how much more impact there would be on the mainland where the advantages of daylight saving would be even greater. 
 I am not informed as to the basic part of the question. I am aware of the case that has been put to me to put to the Government for consideration of South Australia in the selection of sites. I am aware also, of course, of the establishments that we have in South Australia, notably the Department of Supply establishment at Salisbury. I will seek more information and made it available to the honourable senator as soon as possible. 
I am sure that the Senate will recognise that it is completely inappropriate for me to give answers during question lime on matters regarding our relationship with other nations and I therefore think it is proper for the honourable senator to put the question on the notice paper. 
It is true that  Sir Allen  Fairhall, as he now is, who was Minister for Defence at the time, visited the United States of America and, at a ceremony, received nominally an aircraft in connection with Australia's F111 project. I do not accept, and I am sure that the Government does not accept, that this will in any way inhibit the discussions the present Minister for Defence proposes to have with the United States Government when he visits that country in the near future.I am not in a position to give the figure the honourable senator seeks or to give an answer to his imputation in regard to that figure, which is, of course, a different matter again. The Minister for Defence made a statement in another place last Thursday night in connection with the F111 aircraft and I commend it to the honourable senator. The statement may contain some of the information the honourable senator seeks. 
by leave - In making this defence statement, honourable senators will understand that where I use the first person singular pronoun I am referring to the Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser). 
I propose in the course of my remarks to provide a broad view of our defence policy and the considerations that have contributed to it. 1 shall refer to the Government's defence objectives and to our planning arrangements which support them, to the capacity of our armed forces, and to our proposals to increase that capacity. 
I will set the Services' capability against the roles we have assigned them. I shall also mention the organisational changes which are still continuing in the defence structure which, 1 believe, are important in helping the Government to come to decisions in defence matters. Some of what I say will not be new but I feel it would be useful if the House could have as full a view as possible of our approach to defence policy. 
Defence policies and the decisions we take to give effect to them must have meaning not only for the immediate present; they must also fit the situation that we assess will face us in the future. This task is not easy. There is a dynamic in the policies, the economic and the social changes of the countries of our region. The rapidity of technological and scientific development introduces yet another dimension. Yet if we are to take the right decisions, we must have a defence organisation which is equipped to analyse all the facts, and perceive as best it may what lies ahead. 
My colleague, the right honourable the Minister for External Affairs  (Mr McMahon),  will, in the course of this session, be giving the House a survey of the international situation and of Australia's external policies.I shall confine myself to describing in brief terms the strategic setting against which the Government has made certain decisions and in the context of which v/e are elaborating our defence policies. 
I do recall the question asked by the honourable senator and I am aware that the Governor of the Reserve Bank of Australia made a statement, I think, late last Friday or on Saturday which indicated an increase in the interest rate by one-half of 1%. It is true that yesterday, in another place, in response to a question about the increase, the Trea-  surer pointed out that the guiding principle for the increase in the rate was the present inflationary trends. Increasing the interest rate is a classical procedure to curb any inflationary tendencies that may be noticed in a prosperous economy. 
AsI understand the reply given yesterday by the Treasurer, he will be having discussions with the Governor of the Reserve Bank about the implications of the increase. For a considerable time a preferential rate of interest has applied to rural industries - that is, a differential for rural industries. The Treasurer has made it clear that that preferential rate of interest will remain. As to the refinements of the question asked by the honourable senator, . I think we should wait until the Treasurer makes a statement, following the series of discussions he is to have with the Governor of the Reserve Bank on this matter. The prime thing to remember is that there is a differential for primary industries. That differential applies both to export primary industries and to the rural sector. That differential, as such, will be preserved still. 
In the first place the honourable senator has his percentages wrong. The rate is to rise by  i%,  not i%. Secondly, it has always been the situation that the spokesman for the Reserve Bank is the Governor of the Bank. He makes announcements about bank rates because they are an essential part of the responsibility of the Reserve Bank. 1 think  I  should direct the remainder of the question to the Treasurer for comment. 
The honourable senator has directed the question to me as Leader of the Government. Having regard to a statement made by the Minister for Health in another place yesterday I would have thought it would be more appropriate to address this question to the Minister in the Senate representing the Minister for Health. I commend to the honourable senator's attention the statement made by the Minister for Health yesterday. I suggest  Senator Cant  is confusing his issues a deal. The honourable senator asked a tortuous series of questions about civil conscription which I did not completely follow in the context in which he gave them. It is true that the Australian Medical Association has, as I understand it, suggested certain procedures in relation to the Government's proposals. It is equally true that the Association has now indicated some reservations about some of the proposals. As I understood the 
Minister for Health to say in another place yesterday, he is prepared to have interviews with the AMA in regard to those issues. The Minister for Health made it abundantly clear that the care of the health of the people was the prime consideration of the Government in this matter, and I have no doubt that the scheme, consistent with the proposals outlined in the Government's policy speech, will eventually emerge for the good health of the people of Australia and will be consistent with the responsibilities and freedoms of the medical profession, whatever those responsibilities be. 
I undertake to refer the matter raised by the honourable senator to the Treasurer and to obtain a reply for him. 
I will refer the request to the Treasurer and seek a reply for the honourable senator. 
The Leader of the Opposition is asking for information which I will attempt to obtain for him. 
lt is quite apparent from the way in which the honourable senator has framed his question that he has no conception of Australia's essential purpose in Vietnam. Our purpose in Vietnam is, along with our allies, to see that the people of South Vietnam have the right - the sort of right that he and 1 have - and freedom to select a form of government of their own choosing, lt is deplorable for the honourable senator to draw such an inference from a statement made by a gallant soldier who represents a gallant battalion of men coming back to Australia. 
Yes, I recall the questions and I am happy to say, as background, that it should be remembered that I indicated that the delegation that came to Australia came as a result of a high level mission that we sent to America in relation to offset procurement, with particular emphasis on the defence aspect. I had the leader and two other members of the delegation in my office this morning and had discussions with them. Yesterday they had discussions with officers of my Department. Notably they have been in close cooperation with the Department of Trade and Industry which is also very much involved in this exercise. I am happy to be able to say that the members of the delegation brought to Australia three specific bid packages to try to interest Australian industry in them. 
Yes, packages, a package being a specification. In the Boeing there will be certain equipment for which people will be invited to tender. There is a specification and in that sense it is a package. There are three package components in which Australia is being encouraged to take an interest. I am able to say that representatives of interested firms and of the Department of Trade and Industry and the Department of Supply will attend a bidder's conference with the Boeing representatives in Seattle, United States of America, within a fortnight to discuss bid packages and explore future opportunities for sub-contract work in Australia. This mission is in real earnest. With the cooperation of the Department of Trade and Industry and the Department of Supply it has visited sixteen different companies in Australia. The delegation that is to attend the conference in the United States will see whether our companies can quote successfully - we should be able to do so - for part of this big Boeing 747 aircraft project. I think I express the view of all honourable senators and everybody iu Australia when I wish the delegation every success in its venture. 
I am not aware of the import of the question which suggests some knowledge of percentages of casualties in Vietnam. I question whether there is any accuracy in that implication of the question. I am sure that the honourable senator realises that in any conflict, ever since the Wars of the Roses, the casualty rate has not been completely within the control of one side or the other. I understand that there has been a significant increase in Australian casualties in relation to one aspect of the conflict in Vietnam - that is, the use of concealed mines. This matter was referred to several days ago in this place by  Senator Georges.  I would not say that there is any distinction between the casualties suffered by the US forces, any other forces and our own. It would depend upon the war field the troops were in. the operational area and the type of battle forced upon them in circumstances of war, which is a dirty deadly business. Nevertheless, if the honourable senator feels that there is some aspect of his question about which he would like further information I will get a reply from the Minister for Defence. 
My attention was drawn to the award naming the late  Senator Sam  Cohen, Q.C., Australian Jew of the Year for 1969. lt is a very significant award. Speaking as Leader of the Government in the Senate I say quite categorically that we would be happy to join in a suggested letter of congratulation to be sent to  Mrs Cohen. 
The honourable senator asked me first about the Paris peace conference. My understanding is that at least it is still in existence.  I  also tinderstand that from time to time it has deferments and adjournments. I would need to get information of the current position from the Department of External Affairs. As I indicated yesterday, very properly 1 would be most cautious at question time in responding to questions on fundamental policy. Therefore I think it proper that the question be placed on the notice paper for the Minister for External Affairs to provide a comprehensive answer to the comprehensive question asked by the honourable senator. 
I am aware of the resolutions and, as I recall, the messages that were conveyed to another place pursuant to those resolutions. I am not aware of the current position in relation to those resolutions. As we all realise, this is a new Parliament; the old Parliament was dissolved. However, I invite the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation to take the matter up with his colleague and to obtain a reply to the honourable senator's question. 
I have not had the advantage of seeing the statement to which the honourable senator referred. I shall link his question with that asked by  Senator Greenwood  and, in the same context, obtain a reply from the Department of External Affairs. 
I move: 
That  thebill  be  now  read  a  second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to enable the Commonwealth to meet its obligations under a Commonwealth guarantee of repayment of certain borrowings by the 
Australian Wheat Board from the Reserve Bank of Australia, in respect of wheat from the 1968-69 crop. Arrangements were made for the Board to borrow up to $624m from the Rural Credits Department of the Bank for the 1968-69 pool. The date for final repayment is 31st March 1970, approximately 12 months after the drawings were made, in order to comply with section 57 of the Reserve Bank Act which requires that loans of the type made to the Board shall not be for more than 1 year. 
Income from sales of wheat will be insufficient to enable the Board to repay the borrowings in full by the due date. This will mean that, for the first time since the wheat stabilisation scheme was introduced over 20 years ago, the Commonwealth will be called upon under the guarantee. The Board currently expects that its indebtedness to the Bank on the 1968-69 pool accounts as at 31st March 1970 will be in the vicinity of $250m. The Board also estimates that recoupment of this amount from subsequent sales of wheat to overseas markets will take about 15 months. 
It is proposed that the Commonwealth lend to the Board sufficient funds to enable it to discharge its debt to the Bank. It is also proposed that the Board be required to use for repayment of the loan all net receipts, after the date of the loan, from export sales of wheat of the 1968-69 pool. The Bill provides that the loan to the Board may be made available on such terms and conditions as the Treasurer determines. It is intended that the rate of interest on the loan by the Commonwealth will be the same as the rate charged for Government guaranteed loans by the Rural Credits Department of the Reserve Bank on the date the loan is made. 
The Bill authorises the Commonwealth to borrow up to $300m to make the loan to the Board. This exceeds the Board's current estimate of the amount required under the guarantee, but this seems prudent in case the Board's estimate proves to be too low. The Australian Loan Council has agreed to a special borrowing programme for this purpose for the Commonwealth in 1969-70. The terms of the borrowing will be subject to Loan Council approval. In short, the Bill makes provision for the Commonwealth to borrow the requisite amount and to make a loan to the Board on terms and conditions approved by the Treasurer. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Wilkinson)  adjourned. 

 - Mr President, it is my understanding that these matters are within your domain and thereforeI can only suggest that the question be placed on the notice paper. 
I have not seen the text and I do not know whether it is available. Therefore, I am not in a position to comment. 
My understanding is - in fact, I am sure - that this matter appears in the Governor-General's Speech and the proposed programme for the present session. It is equally my understanding that the States have been informed of the Commonwealth's intention in this matter. I do not think this will be a new situation or the first time this has happened since federation. I would not imagine that the States need to be invited by the Commonwealth to express their views. The normal procedure is that if the States have certain views about a matter concerning their relations with the Commonwealth they very properly and very forcefully express them. 1 do not see that there is any special merit in the honourable senator's proposal. Nevertheless I will refer it to the Prime Minister. It is my belief that the States are already aware of the Commonwealth's intention in relation to this legislation. Probably there have been some discussions on it. It has always been a source of amazement to me that in 69 years of federation we have not had sufficiently determined where the sovereignty is. If this legislation does nothing else, it will establish  a  situation in which that question will be resolved for the future benefit of the people of Australia. 
The honourable senator makes observations to which I do not necessarily subscribe. He talks about socially accepted practices, etc. I do not express any approval of such observations. But the substance of his question is whether the Government will give consideration to looking at the company law. I think that is a matter which is more directly applicable to the Attorney-General's Department than to the Treasury. I suggest that he put the question on the notice paper and then I will have it directed to the appropriate authority. 
-I have not had the advantage of reading the article referred to by the honourable senator. I shall certainly put my mind to reading the report immediately after question time. ThenI shall direct the honourable senator's question to the Minister for Trade and Industry. It may well be that other departments are involved in the question asked by the honourable senator and it may well be that this is a matter within the responsibility of a State government;I do not know. Certainly I shall look very closely at the question and have it conveyed to the Minister to see whetherI can elucidate the facts for the honourable senator, 
I am distressed to discover that apparently  Senator Wheeldon  is not aware that the conditions of employment of workers in Australia are governed by legislation. I did not think I would live to see the day when a member of the Australian Labor Party would show such amazing ignorance of the industrial laws of the land. 
If he does know it, as the Leader of the Opposition claims, it is reprehensible for him to draw an analogy with the medical profession.  1  am amazed to think that he does not know that there are no such industrial laws for the medical profession. He is now between Heaven and earth. I will leave it at that. 
I ' believe the question which the honourable senator poses is one of the classical problems involved in the analysis of the road toil. Honourable senators who were on a Committee with me which looked into this will recall that this was one of the first things discovered. An accident is due to a combination of things very often. It is a very difficult problem to analyse, and I do not think any country in the world has been able really to analyse this problem with precision and separate certain of the interchanging, inter-operating factors in relation to the road toll. It is true that statistics have proved - if 'proved' is the right word - that the death toll is significantly high at high speeds and on straight roads, lt is a sort of percentage leaning for the casualty rate but there is no real precision in it. I will certainly refer the honourable senator's question to the Minister as he has asked me to do. 
He has very properly put his finger on one of the big problems confronting the engineers, scientists and statisticians who are trying to draw conclusions in relation to the toll on the: road. There is this interchange between speed on the one hand, the state of the road on the other, and the state of the driver. In relation to road safety matters the experts talk in terms of such matters as enforcement and engineering. Where one leaves off the other takes up. Road safety is a big problem. I shall certainly refer the matter to the Bureau to determine whether it can elicit some information for the Senate. 
1 think it is fair to say that in certain areas of the continent there are problems in the rural areas. They are due to a combination of events. Drought conditions are being experienced in certain areas. Of course, we all recognise that there is a special problem in relation to obtaining world markets for some of our primary products. I think it is fair to say that this factor in itself must have some impact in certain prescribed areas. I do not think it is proper for me to comment at question time on how the problem should be dealt with. I shall refer the honourable senator's question to the Prime Minister. I hope I will be able to bring forth an answer. Without wishing to reflect upon the question, I notice that there are some resolutions on the notice paper which could invite debate on this subject. It is probable that some of these resolutions will be debated next week. Indeed, in the debate on the AddressinReply to the Governor-General's Speech there has been already some reference to the subject. When I wind up that debate later in the day I hope to make some observations in a different context about the situation in the primary industries. 
Reference has appeared in the Press to a statement made by the New South Wales Government as to the route the natural gas pipeline will take, but I have no other information at present. I shall seek to obtain that information if it is within the competence of the Department of Trade and Industry to provide it. I ask the honourable senator to place his question on the notice paper. 
I would say that the Government is receiving reports on the disturbances from the Australian Embassy in the area and naturally is watching the position closely. For some time the Cambodian Government has been expressing concern about the use of Cambodian territory by the Vietnamese Communists. It would not be appropriate for me to comment on these developments, particularly in the absence of statements so far from either the Head of State or the Government in the capital. 
My recollection ls that this matter would be one for discussion at the Premiers Conference level and any discussions in relation to it would stem from that area. Perhaps it would be more proper for me to ascertain the Commonwealth's precise position in relation to it. My belief is that the Commonwealth would not wish to move in this area unless there was uniformity, and this is putting aside the point of view that the Commonwealth itself may have. But I will take the question on board and give a reply to the honourable senator next week. 
A few minutes ago I gave some information to  Senator Poyser  in reply to a question about voting age. The information that I actually have in my brief is that the Government is aware of movements to change the age of legal responsibility both in the States and overseas. The subject has been discussed between Commonwealth and State Ministers and we are currently examining implications of moves towards an earlier age of legal responsibility. 
I ask for leave to make a statement in relation to a contract let by the Department of Supply. lt will be a Press statement later in the day, but 1 think it is appropriate to put it before the Senate now. 
In dealing with the placing of business, I wish to make the comment that it is proposed to bring the motion for the adoption of the AddressinReply to a vote. We will continue the debate until we reach a vote. If we overrun the afternoon session we will sit tonight in order to complete the debate. However, it is expected that we will complete the debate this afternoon. 
Or tonight. If the debate is completed during the afternoon, it is proposed to adjourn the Senate at that time. The point is that under standing order 14 we cannot deal with other matters until we have disposed of the AddressinReply. It is in the interests of the good management of the Senate that we bring the Address-in-Reply debate to a vote today. There are two amendments to the motion. I expect to speak and close the debate late this afternoon. 
I will be brief. 1 wish to reaffirm the message of loyalty to the Throne in terms of the motion moved by  Senator Rae  and seconded by  Senator Munsell.  I congratulate them on their contributions to the debate. I also offer my congratulations to  Senator Donald  Cameron and  Senator Brown  who delivered their maiden speeches. We have all been through that ordeal. I am sure that now they have placed it behind them they will feel more relaxed in the work of the Senate. 
The Address-in-Reply is an address on a conspectus, or a comprehensive survey of the proposed legislation of the Government. The Speech from the Throne embraces the views of the executive Government. It enunciates a number of vital government policies which are, in the view of the Government, in the best interests of the people of Australia, lt foreshadows and forecasts the legislation proposed for the impending sittings. The Speech reflects the views of the Government in relation to foreign affairs, defence, responsibility to our territories, and our domestic economy. 
During the debate that has proceeded for 2 weeks these aspects have been covered. It is true that a significant emphasis has been placed on Australia's involvement in Vietnam, and that perhaps over emphasis has been placed on the totality of foreign affairs tied up with that question. Nevertheless, I believe that the debate has given a foretaste of what these sittings will involve. I say that much of the matter in the Speech and that mentioned in this debate will evolve more thoroughly in depth in the ensuing weeks. It is significant for instance, that  Senator O'Byrne  has spoken on defence matters. I read to the Senate a statement on defence matters which took 1 hour 10 minutes to read. It is a comprehensive statement. We took note of it and it will become a vehicle for quite a comprehensive debate. 
Two amendments have been moved to the motion, firstly by the Democratic Labor Party and subsequently - and surprisingly to me and to the Government - by the Australian Labor Party, the official Opposition. I feel bound to say that I felt we were moving away from tradition and away from what we had always regarded as the traditional approach to this type of motion. It has been the practice for the Opposition to make its point of view strongly known at the outset and to speak from that base. For much of the debate we were speaking from the base of the Speech, as far as the Government was concerned, and the amendment moved by the Democratic Labor Party. However, I want to make it clear that the Government does not support the amendment moved by the Labor Party, the first amendment on which we will vote. As we see it, it is not an amendment to the amendment proposed by the DLP. If the amendment proposed by the Labor Party is not accepted, as I hope and believe will be the case, we will then vote on the amendment moved by the Democratic Labor Party. The Government will also vote against that amendment. I have explained that situation because of the requirements of the mechanics governing this procedure. Over the years this has been the traditional way of dealing with these matters in the Senate. The amendment moved by the Australian Labor Party states: 
Leave out all  words  after 'but', insert: 'the Senate is of opinion that the Government has shown lack of leadership in foreign policy and defence as well as in internal affairs, and the Senate deplores the failure of the Government to provide a programme for - 
adequate defence equipment and industries: 
peace in Vietnam; 
an acceptable health scheme; 
a national superannuation scheme; 
equitable financial arrangements for carrying out the activities of the States and local government and semi-governmental authorities; 
the substantial uplift of the members of the Aboriginal race; 
speedy settlement of industrial grievances and for four weeks annual leave and equal pay for its public servants; 
rehabilitation of primary industry and reimposition of the embargo on the export of merinos; and 
the great social issues of pollution, interest rates, housing and land costs, poverty, education and the burdens of families'. 
Much of the argument on the proposed amendment - and it has been a short argument - has been wide of the mark. For instance, in dealing with the question of Australia's adequate defence, coming in the face of the statement on defence which I read to the Senate,  Senator O'Byrne  chose to make comparisons between what is being done by the Austraiian Government in a progressive programme of defence procurement continuing since World War II, and the course followed by Japan. Of course, Japan has certain responsibilities and limitations in its defence programme because it is really just commencing that programme, lt seemed to me that the honourable senator drew quite a wrong conclusion about our defence programme. I have to be careful not to conflict with the requirements of the business paper. The Australian Government has announced a defence procurement programme which will add tremendously to our capability for defence in our geographical position in South East Asia. 
The next matter to which I wish to refer in the ALP amendment is also touched upon in the amendment moved by the Democratic Labor Party. I refer to our rural industries and the problems they have encountered. When  Senator McManus  dealt with the rural industries he, oddly enough I thought, gave part of the answer to the problem himself when he referred to the situation in other parts of the world. The British Labour Prime Minister is being haunted by irate farmers, and farmers are making protests in the United States and other parts of the world. 
That is so. In Australia we have had a decade of drought. In some parts it has been the worst in our history, but we have survived. It is true that our primary industries have some problems, but that has to be put against all that this Government has done persistently and consistently over the years for primary industry. The contribution made by the Government can be recognised in any field of primary industry. One of the most resent contributions by the Commonwealth has been to diminish what could have been tremendously adverse effects of the devaluation of sterling. The matter has been studied since December 1967 and a sum of about $70m has been set aside to assist statutory bodies involved in marketing primary products, and primary industries, to withstand the problems they have encountered. The Government gives support by providing various bounties. It is significant that huge grants have been made available to enable Australia to be better equipped to deal with the problems of productivity which face primary industry. Time will not permit me to develop this argument now. Our record is one of which we can be proud. Matters relating to primary industry can be debated when the relative legislation is introduced. 1 repeat that the Government will vote 'No' on the Australian Labor Party's amendment and, subject to that being negatived, we will vote 'No' on the Democratic Labor Party's amendment. I would like  a  vote to be taken now if that is the will of the Senate. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be left out  (Senator Murphy's amendment to Senator McManus' proposed amendment)  be left out. 
I did not quite hear the last question asked by the honourable senator, but as to the questions I did hear, it is my understanding that the answer to each question is yes. 
I shall have this matter investigated and will provide a reply for the honourable senator. I was not clear whether he was talking about the premium for insurance or was talking in general terms, but 1 shall take the question on board after question time and will refer it to the Minister so that the honourable senator may have a considered reply. 
Dealing first with the preface to the question and knowing the honourable senator as we do, I would say that he would be just as sincere on St Andrew's Day as he is on St Patrick's Day. As to the matter of substance in his question, which was very comprehensive, I am sure that the honourable senator would realise that I could not be expected, nor would it be proper for me, to comment on these matters at question time. Will he please put the question on notice so that I may refer it to the Minister for External Affairs? 
The honourable senator has asked a very topical question. As I understand it, the Treasurer made a statement in the other place on this matter or, if he did not, he tabled a statement made by the Commissioner of Taxation on whether share transactions are taxable in the present climate of investment on the stock market. It is not for me at question time to comment on a proposed alteration of procedures. The question of intention as the criterion to determine taxability applied before the share market boom. I have in mind the classic case of the acquisition and disposal of property, which often has left uncertainty in the minds of people. As the honourable senator said in his question, it comes back to the question of intention at the time of purchase. He has asked a valid question. 1 prefer to put it to the Treasurer and to obtain a comprehensive reply for the honourable senator. 
In any event, 1 would want the question to be placed on the notice paper; but in the interests of aiding the answer which may eventually be sought and obtained I mention that it was not clear to me whether the honourable senator made the point that the boats were fishing in territorial waters or on the continental shelf, or what was the general relationship to the Western Australian mainland. Perhaps by way of interjection or by adding to his question in putting it on the notice paper he could provide that information, which would help in obtaining a proper answer. 
Having regard to the day and the spirit of the day, I think it would be most inappropriate for me to answer a question of thai nature. As a matter of fact, if we have regard to the responsibilities of a State, what people do within a State in pursuit of their normal occupations or in pursuit of occupations that are not normal is a responsibility of the State. But I do not really think I should be responding to a question which tends, by implication at any rale, possibly to reflect on one of the religious denominations. 
I know of no inhibitions on the will of the Parliament to debate a matter. The forms of the Parliament and the Standing Orders of the Senate provide that any honourable senator, with the support of a certain number of honourable senators, may without restriction raise issues which he thinks are important in any way. Whether or not a decision in relation to a particular building is the responsibility of one organisation or another, I think the matter must finally come back to the Government. I would say to the honourable senator: If at any time you feel that the Parliament is being circumvented in relation to expressing a view about the positioning of any particular building, knowing you and knowing your sex I am sure you will rise in your place and have something to say about it. 
It is true, as the honourable senator states, that the State of Queensland has been affected by serious drought conditions for several years. Throughout this period the Commonwealth has clearly shown its willingness to provide necessary assistance to the Queensland  Government. In  fact, substantial assistance has been provided during 1969-70. The cost of drought relief measures by the Commonwealth Government in Queensland to the end of January this year amounted to about $9.5m. It is estimated that the Commonwealth Government's contribution for the full year 1969-70 will amount to some $15m. The Premier of Queensland has recently written to the Prime Minister proposing certain modifications of existing drought relief measures. These proposals are being examined at the present time as a matter of urgency. 
I would like to answer that in the generality because the generality will cover the particularity. My understanding is  -  I am sure all will agree with this statement - that the Commissioner of Taxation is constantly vigilant to ensure that all taxable income is declared. It seems to me not to matter with which group of people the Commissioner is dealing. I am sure he ensures that all taxable income is assessed properly. I have no doubt that, when a group of people hit the headlines and publicity is given to certain inquiries, that would excite an additional interest by the Commissioner in the field of his responsibility. 
It is a rule, of course, that at question time Ministers do not give answers to questions relating to matters of policy, particularly in the taxation field. But, putting my mind to the question which has been asked, I think it is permissible for me to say that under the general deduction provisions of the income tax law outgoings are deductible only if they are incurred in the production of assessable income and are not of a capital, private or domestic nature. This test is not satisfied in the case of councillors and aldermen who receive no allowance for their local government activities. If the principle of relating deductible expenses to the derivation of assessable income were abandoned in the case of councillors or aldermen who receive no allowance it would be difficult to deny comparable treatment in relation to many other kinds of expenses which are unrelated to income producing activities. 1 am sure the Senate would recognise that fact. For example, the position of representatives of local government would need to be considered with that of other persons who incur expenses in a particular way without reward in a wide variety of activities which are beneficial to the community in general. Again, f think all honourable senators would recognise that as a valid point of view. Nevertheless, I shall bring the points raised by the honourable senator to the attention of the Treasurer. The honourable senator will appreciate, of course, that matters in which the Treasurer does intervene and permit a variation normally find expression at Budget time. I am not saying that it is the intention to do so in this instance. All I am saying is that it is the normal procedure. 
Earlier today  Senator Kennelly  asked about a question that he asked last week in regard to liquefied petroleum gas.  I  can tell the honourable senator that in replying to his question last Thursday [ did not ask him to put the question upon notice;  I  said that I. would have it examined and would process it, at that point not being certain to which department the matter should be referred.  I  am happy to be able to tell the honourable senator now that  I  sent the question through my secretariat to the Minister for Trade and Industry who in turn decided that it was not within his responsibility and referred it to the Minister for National Development. The question is at present being processed for an appropriate answer. 
The following answer to the honourable senator's question has been provided by the Public Service Board: 
Three weeks' annual leave was prescribed for permanent officers in the first Commonwealth Public Service Act, 1902. 
Officers of the Commonwealth Service are credited with sick leave on the following basis: 

<graphic href="943232197003176_11_0.jpg"></graphic>

This leave, if not taken, accumulates from year to year. 
These provisions were last varied in 1951. 
There is additional sick leave for officers in respect of sickness resulting from war-caused disabilities. 
There is no commonly accepted definition of the expression 'fringe benefits'. Some people refer to superannuation benefits, furlough entitlements, sick leave benefits and such like as being fringe benefits'. Others confine the expression to benefits such as profit based bonuses or expense accounts. 
In the Commonwealth, officers enjoy generous superannuation arrangements, furlough and sick leave benefits. 
Officers also receive a variety of payments related to the nature and circumstances of their employment. These include financial assistance to officers undertaking studies, remote district allowances, annual allowances to certain very senior officers to meet expenses of office, and in relation to overseas staffs, allowances paid to officers in recognition of special features of overseas service. 
The Minister for External Affairs has provided the following answers to the honourable senator's questions: 
I  have no knowledge  of  any activities undertaken by the International Commission for 
Supervision and Control in Laos during the recent developments there, nor of any report by the Commission on the situation. 
I am aware of the report published by the Economic Survey Mission of the Asian Parliamentary Union following its visit to Laos from 15th to 19th November 1969. The Mission was led by the Honourable Rogaciano M. Mercado of the Republic of the Philippines, and included members from the Republic of Korea, Japan, the Republic of China, Laos, the Philippines and Thailand. A copy of the Mission's report, which dealt with the economy of Laos, has been lodged with the Parliamentary Library. 
The Minister for External Affairs has furnished the following reply:  (1.) Australia supported resolution 2415 as a whole when it was adopted by the United Nations General Assembly in December 1968. This resolution endorsed the recommendation of the 1% assistance target adopted by the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development. However Australia maintained a specific reservation on operative paragraph two in resolution 2415 which stated that as a key element of the international development policy for the next United Nations Development Decade, economically advanced countries which have not already done so should accept 1972 as the target year for the attainment of the aid volume target, as defined in decision 27 (11) of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, and take urgent appropriate action to achieve this objective'. Australia has reservations about the value of setting arbitrary dates for targets, and particularly in this instance where the target includesflows of private investment and private export credits which are generally outside the control of Governments. The replies to Questions Nos 1355 and 1603 in the House of Representatives (Hansard 1st May and 12th August 1969) are also relevant. 
According to information available to Australian authorities, the Government of New Zealand has not taken such a decision. 
As stated above, the Government does not consider if is desirable to attempt to fix target dates for assistance flows. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
The Government will welcome these ships, and several others coming at our invitation, at a reception to be held during the ships' visits at which representatives of the Commonwealth Government will act as hosts to the visitors. Individual ships will be welcomed on arrival by the Commonwealth Director of the Captain Cook Bicentenary Celebrations, Rear Admiral G. C. Oldham, C.B.E., D.S.C. 
 Earlier in this debate  Senator Wheeldon  referred to stockbroking procedures, as I understood him, in Western Australia. I did not reply to him immediately because I had moved the adjournment of the Senate and to have then replied would have stultified the debate.  Senator Wheeldon  dealt with a circular setting out terms and conditions that had been sent out by a particular stockbroking firm. 
That may be so, but you were dealing with a particular firm which had said: 'Righto. As far as we are concerned we will do business on the stock market only in a certain way'. A notable example given by the honourable senator was that that firm would not accept business unless  it  was for the purchase of shares to the value of $ 1,000 or more. The honourable senator developed his point to such an extent that he put that this action would limit the people who could operate on the stock market, that  it  was an affront to anybody's freedom to buy or sell shares because of the set minimum of $1,000. Be that as it may, I do not think it was correct for  Senator Wheeldon  to develop his argument on the basis that a decision taken by a stockbroking firm, setting out the terms and conditions under which  it  would operate- 
But you did not name three stockbrokers in relation to the condition  of  $1,000. 
AsI see it, quite clearly this is a matter within the responsibility of the Western Australian Stock Exchange.I have no doubt that the organisation- or three organisations, if you like - had a seat or seats on the Western Australian Stock Exchange.I would imagine that it would be quite competent for the Stock Exchange to say to the particular firm - or to the three, four or five firms, if you like - that in view of the condition under which it planned to trade, its position as an operator on the Stock Exchange would have to be evaluated. I  do  not think that is a matter to be dealt with by the national Parliament.I think it is primarily a matter for the Western Australian Stock Exchange. It could well be within the responsibility of the Western Australian Government, butI do not believe the national Parliament should express a view on it at this time. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  has given notice of a motion concerning stocks and shares. In the normal process we could anticipate that we would deal with it on Thursday night.I have no doubt that  Senator Murphy  will speak on a much wider canvas. It would be out of order for me to presume to anticipate what the honourable senator will put in terms of setting up a committee. Had  Senator Wheeldon  addressed a question to me on this subject at question time my reaction would have been to say that if a firm is not prepared to do business except under certain conditions, that is its decision; but that decision would be effective only in respect of its industry or its profession. If it were inconsistent with its profession it would be up to an organisation in Western Australia - the Stock Exchange, I would think, in the first instance - to consider an analysis of the effects of that decision. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Senate adjourned at 11.8 p.m. 
I would have thought that one could more readily get the definitions in the Labor Party. 
I would like to take the question and make a close examination of it because I am under the impression that this matter would be primarily within the responsibility of the Minister for Shipping and Transport. When I have the lines of responsibility separated I will be in a better position to give a considered reply. 
As the question is presented I take the inquiry to be whether one part of the Government Aircraft Factory will be doing certain work or whether the Avalon section of the Government Aircraft Factory will be doing that work. Frankly, I am not aware of the division which may emerge but I can fairly readily obtain an answer for the honourable senator and will make it available as soon as I can. 
Again I would suggest that an honourable senator is caught up in the propaganda which emanates from the Australian Labor Party. Of course, that does not exclude the possibility that certain people in the Press thrive on propaganda. But for the life of me I cannot see what the internal appointments within a political party have to do with the welfare and the good of the nation. 
I would suggest that the honourable senator is completely bemused by his own propaganda. 
-I will seek to obtain the facts of the matter for the honourable senator. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Currently a series of interdepartmental discussions in relation to offset orders is going on. As I indicated in the Senate, last week I think it was, we had a visitation from executives of the Boeing aircraft company during which we were able to set up a situation in which certain Australian industry groups are going to Seattle to study a series of packages for the purpose of bidding. But that answers only part of the question  Senator Bishop  has asked. I hope to be in a position to make a comprehensive statement when we resume after the Easter recess. While I am on my feet,  Mr President,  perhaps I should inform honourable senators that I had intended to make today a statement in relation to Australia's role in outer space and our responsibilities with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration of the United States of America. However, I have elected not to make that statement today because, as honourable senators have been advised, we are under some pressure to pass certain legislation within the next 48 hours. I therefore propose to delay making that statement until the week in which we resume after the Easter recess. 
Fill AIRCRAFT 
The Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question:  i refer the honourable senator to the statement made in the House on 4th March 1970 by my colleague, the Minister for Labour and National Service, in which he estimated that if the additional work force were recruited  to  make up the time lost the cost would be $25 m per annum. i understand that this estimate relates to all Commonwealth employees and not only to Commonwealth public servants. 
The Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The findings of the Joint Committee of Public Accounts in its One Hundred and Twelfth Report are still under study in the Treasury. 
As soon as this has been completed, the Treasury views and action taken will be conveyed to the Committee in a Treasury Minute in accordance wilh ihe agreed arrangements and will be made public when the Treasury Minute is tabled by the Committee in both Houses of Parliament. 
The Minister for 
Trade and Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The following table shows allocations of overseas exchange which i am informed have been authorised since 1962-63 for the purchase of films for television programme material and for other exhibition purposes. Statistics are not available for payments to individual countries. However, the undermentioned payments to the sterling area and non-sterling area would be predominantly for material of United Kingdom and United States of America origin respectively. 

<graphic href="943232197003180_11_0.jpg"></graphic>

I. move:  "that the Senate at its rising adjourn until 10 it.m..  tomorrow 
In speaking to the motion 1 make the point that tomorrow the motions for the second reading of the Social Services Bill and the Repatriation Bill will we hope be debated currently, and then the Bills will be dealt with separately at the Committee stage. For reasons which are known, we wish that legislation to be passed tomorrow. We also seek passage of the Loan (Australian Wheat Board) Bill. At 4.45 p.m. we are due to go to Government House to present the Address-in-Reply to  His Excellency  the Governor-General. After 8 p.m. tomorrow General Business will be called on. We have a fairly tight schedule for tomorrow. I am grateful to the Opposition, the Democratic Labor Party and  Senator Turnbull  for their co-operation in the matter. The point 1 make is that there will be a need for a high degree of co-operation tomorrow. I know that honourable senators opposite will give us that co-operation. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
A number of questions have been asked in this context during the last fortnight. I think it would be proper to put the question on notice and for me to have the benefit of a considered reply from the Minister for Trade and Industry to the honourable senator's question. I do know that certain organisations have been set up in relation to the New ZealandAustralia Free Trade Agreement and with particular reference to the situation of frozen peas and beans. The question is completely comprehensive and I think the honourable senator is entitled to a full and lengthy answer. 
I have seen one comment in relation to the price of petroleum products, but I have not seen any comments in regard to the price of steel. I accept the Leader of the Opposition's statement that the  President  of the ACTU has in fact suggested that an inquiry be set up to examine these matters. I cannot give an assurance that this will be undertaken at a Commonwealth level. It is clearly a matter of policy. I think it would be inappropriate to deal with the matter on a Commonwealth basis as suggested by the  President  of the ACTU. The price of petrol throughout Australia is influenced by the price which is fixed in South Australia. In any event, the Leader of the Opposition's question in the terms in which it is posed asks me to reflect upon possible Government policy and, for that reason, I would not be in a position to comment at this time. 
I have not yet looked at the trajectory of the cannon but I will look at it with interest. 
Yes, 1 have seen some reports in relation to synthetic foods, and more recently in relation to synthetic meats. The honourable senator's question relates to a matter of policy. He has asked that the Government take certain action to restrict or prohibit the entry into Australia of synthetic meats in competition with our own meat industry. That also is a matter of policy on which he is asking me to comment. The best I can do is to say that I will refer the matter to the Minister for Trade and Industry. 
Yes. I, and I am sure other honourable senators, read what appeared in the Press within the past 24 hours. I am not able to make any comment on the matter. I sought some information in relation to it this morning but as yet the information is not available to me. I think  Senator Wheeldon  has asked a fair question in requesting that the Minister for External Affairs be invited to comment at the very earliest opportunity. Obviously at this stage there is no comment that 1 can make. 
The honourable senator has given the allowable taxation deductions for children's education expenses. I do not challenge the figures that he gave. My memory does not extend to the precision of the question, but I would accept the figures the honourable senator gave as being accurate. The honourable senator then asked whether the Government would consider increasing the amount of the deductions. 1 reply to him, as I do to other honourable senators who raise budgetary matters at question time, that at Budget time, very properly, the Government and the Treasurer examine all these matters and they will consider his submissions along with the submissions of other honourable senators concerning budgetary matters. 
I do recall the honourable senator asking questions on this issue during the last 2 weeks. My understanding of the situation is that the increase of  i%  in the interest rate became operative from the time that the Governor of the Reserve Bank made his statement. So the answer to the first part of the honourable senator's question is that the increase in the interest rate is operative. 
The second point that I want to make is to reiterate that the primary industry sector of the Australian economy enjoys a special differential in many ways. In certain respects primary industries receive an advantage in the interest rate. So if there is an increase in the overall interest rate the differential will remain constant. The ultimate part of the honourable senator's question is a suggestion that the Government should intercede with the Reserve Bank so that this increase is not passed on to primary industries, in which case the differential would be increased. This, of course, is a matter of policy and a mattei that I would have to take on notice and refer to the Treasurer. 
Yes, I saw the leading article in the 'Australian Financial Review'. It dealt with offset ordering. The Small Arms Factory at Lithgow has certain equipment idle and is not running at full capacity. So that there can be no misunderstanding, 1 point out that the Small Arms Factory at Lithgow currently has a substantial programme of high technology production current for the Australian Services and overseas customers. Honourable senators must appreciate that all factories producing war materials must always have an area of excess capacity in peace time in order to meet any emergency requirements which could arise if war should break out. 
I am happy to be able to say - this is the main point that I want to bring out - that employment at the Factory at Lithgow is now at its highest level for more than a decade. Total employment is 1,532 persons. I suggest that that is evidence of a satisfactory and economic level of production. Honourable senators should understand that the Small Arms Factory at Lithgow is a tremendously important factory not only for our defence complex but also for the area of Lithgow. It is the major employer in that area of New South Wales. 
Yesterday  Senator Poyser  asked me a question in relation to the Government aircraft factories at Fishermen's Bend and Avalon and I undertook to get some further information for him. I can now inform the honourable senator that the Government Aircraft Factory at Fishermen's Bend is used primarily for manufacturing work, and the Government Aircraft Factory at Avalon is used primarily for final assembly and flight testing, although it carries out some component jig assembly work. So the question as to where any particular class of work will be done depends on the class of work received. If it is primarily of a manufacturing nature involving little assembly into major components, it will probably be done at the Fishermen's Bend factory. The nature of the contracts for which Australian industry is invited to tender suggests that the contracts are more suitable for Fishermen's Bend. The three major aircraft manufacturing organisations! - the Government aircraft factories. Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation, and Hawker de Havilland - will be seeking the work of a nature mentioned by the honourable senator. 
by leave - 1 am sorry that this matter has taken the form it has. I feel bound to say that ( have had discussions with the  Chairman  of the Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances. I sought from him some understanding in relation to the regulations the Committee proposes should be disallowed. 1 do not want to discuss the broad arguments of the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  on this occasion, because we are discussing this subject in a background which is not appropriate to a full debate, although I would not shrink from a full debate on the issues which the Leader of the Opposition has raised. I feel bound to say that what is contemplated on this occasion is in accordance with a practice which has been followed in this chamber over many years. When the Regulations and Ordinances Committee has drawn the attention of the Government to regulations which the Committee feels should be disallowed the Government has, on a number of occasions, responded by saying that it recognises its responsibilities and the Government has given an assurance that it will introduce legislation which will remove the subject matter from the regulatory field and place it in the statute book. This is what happened on this occasion. 
I know. The Leader of the Opposition is trying to introduce another argument. All I am saying is that on this occasion I am following a practice which has been followed before. The Leader of the Opposition argues that the practice is wrong. If the Leader of the Opposition wishes it, I shall permit a debate to be held on this subject, but I feel that it should be held in a different climate from the present one. In any event, I have indicated to the  Chairman  of the Committee that the Government will introduce legislation which will take this matter out of the regulatory field altogether. As a result, the Committee has in ils judgment moved for a postponement of the consideration of the disallowance motion. No doubt it has done so in order to enable it to make a closer examination of the Government's proposals. The Leader of the Opposition has raised a broad canvas situation of whether that is an appropriate way to deal with the matter. All I can say is that it is a practice which has been followed in the Senate over a number of years. I do not think we should have a debate today on the broad principles. I will give an undertaking to arrange for the matter to be debated at a later stage if necessary. But I do not think it should be debated in conjunction with the short-term problem we have at present. 
 Senator Wheeldon's  contribution to the debate adds up to the fact that he is not satisfied with the regulations that the Stock Exchange of Perth imposes on its members for the conduct of  their  affairs on the Stock Exchange. What I said on Tuesday night is confirmed by the statements made by the  President  of the Stock Exchange and by  Senator Wheeldon.  I said that the matter was related to the regulations of the Stock Exchange. I would not know how that matter could be directed to a Minister in the national parliament. If the regulations of the Stock Exchange allow it to impose minimum limitations and it says that that is the way the affairs of its members should be conducted and if  Senator Wheeldon  considers that the regulations for the conduct of the Stock Exchange are not right, I suggest that he should direct his comments to the  Chairman  of the Stock Exchange or, indeed, if he wants to go all the way, to the Western Australian Government. 
The honourable senator let off a great amount of steam when he spoke. I ask him to be quiet and to listen to what I have to say. If he does not like the regulations of the Stock Exchange of Perth in relation to the conduct of its affairs, he should submit his views to the Stock Exchange. If the honourable senator is not satisfied with taking that course of action he should refer his complaint to the State Government in Western Australia which would, I presume, have some jurisdiction over the matter. But the Commonwealth Parliament certainly does not have any jurisdiction, thank heaven, over the affairs of an undertaking such as a stock exchange in a particular State. I am unable to understand why the honourable senator has again drawn the matter to my attention tonight. The honourable senator has admitted that what I said on Tuesday night was correct. I agree with the honourable senator that a case could be made out about whether the minimum purchase should or should not be set at a figure of $1,000, but that is a matter of judgment. The matter which the honourable senator has raised does not come within the jurisdiction of this Parliament. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Senate adjourned at 11.11 p.m. till Tuesday, 7 April, at 3 p.m. 
I have no idea and I am sure that nobody would have any idea of what would be a tactical decision In the field regarding the deployment of troops. The question, in the form in which it is presented, seems to me to be completely unreal. I suggest that the question be put on notice. 
I am not aware of any details in that regard.I would need to seek information on this and I would ask the honourable senator to put that question on the notice paper. 
I am not aware of the circumstances of the delay.I will seek some information on the matter and make it available to the honourable senator and the Senate as and when I obtain it. 
I will seek any information possible in answer to the honourable senator's question. 
 I was not certain of what was required. In that event I persist with my motion that the Senate take note of the paper. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Willesee)  adjourned. 
 Mr President,  it is with deep regret that I formally advise the Senate of the death of  Mr James  Reay Fraser in Canberra last Wednesday at the age of 62 years.  Mr Fraser  left a widow and a son, Andrew, to whom we all extend our sincere and heartfelt sympathy.  Mr Fraser  represented the electorate of the Australian Capital Territory in the House of Representatives for 19 years up to the time of his death. He was elected in the general elections of 1951, 1954, 1955, 1958, 1961, 1963, 1966 and again in 1969. In 1954  Mr Fraser  was a member of the Select Committee to inquire into and report upon the Hansard of the House of Representatives. He was ViceChairman of the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory from 10th April 1957 and a member of the Privileges Committee from 5th March 1964 until his death. 
A former school teacher and journalist,  Mr Fraser  attained a unique distinction in public life as the member for the Australian Capital Territory. In Canberra he was known to be a man who was all things to all men. He has been described by some people as the Mayor of Canberra, the senator for the Australian Capital Territory and the civic ombudsman, adviser and confidant of people in all walks of life in the Territory.  Mr Fraser  worked tirelessly for each and every one of his constituents. Perhaps this caused him to ignore the assault on his own strength and physique. He was a man who, putting politics aside, would be the image of the perfect private member. He was dedicated to his electorate and to the task of being the voice of the electorate. Always smiling and affable, he could be seen in attendance at almost every civic or school function or church fete - in fact, at all functions in his electorate. He was a familiar figure to most of the citizens of the large area of the Australian Capital Territory. I think this was adequately shown last Friday by the thousands of mourners who attended his state funeral at St. Andrew's Presbyterian Church, lined the route of the funeral to the cemetery and were present at the graveside. 
It has been said that perhaps the Australian Capital Territory electorate was not so much a political seat as one known as a Fraser seat, lt is true, I believe, that no man understood the needs of his constituents better than he did. Anybody who is called upon to follow him as the member for the Australian Capital Territory faces a huge task in equalling his dedication to his constituents. Another unique factor in regard to  Mr Fraser's  public life is that he and his brother,  Mr Allan  Fraser, who represents the electorate of Eden-Monaro, were the first brothers ever to serve in the same House of the Commonwealth Parliament at the same time. The late  Mr Fraser  served his country in war and in peace. During World War II - in December 1941 - he enlisted in the 2nd Australian Imperial Force. He served as a gunner with the 2/1 Field Regiment in 1942-43 and with the Public Relations Field Unit in 1944-45. He was discharged on 25th March 1946 with the rank of sergeant. I move: 
That the Senate expresses its deep regret at the death of James Reay Fraser,, member of the House of Representatives for the Australian Capital Territory, places on record its appreciation ot  his  long and meritorious public service, and tenders its sincere sympathy to his widow, his son and his relatives in their bereavement. 
My attention has been drawn to this matter. 1 sought some information from the Treasurer.I would like to make it clear to the Senate that this medallion is not being issued by the Government or by the Royal Australian Mint. The issue is a purely private venture and the company involved is solely responsible for the price, design and alloy of the medallions as well as for the details of their distribution. The Mint is concerned only with the manufacture of working dies from the master die supplied by the company and with the striking with these working dies of blanks which have been supplied by the company. The Mint is charging the company a commercial rate for these services. 
Apparently the honourable senator in his judgment sees some variation or contradiction in the statements made by the Prime Minister, on the one hand, and by the Minister for Defence, on the other hand, in relation to Australia's participation in future possible withdrawals from Vietnam. In view of the judgment that the honourable senator has madeI think I should take the opportunity to read the statements in question. At the time when the statements were made I did not see any variation in the generality of the issue. For that reason I ask the honourable senator to put the question on notice and I will get a considered reply for him. From any comment thatI have heard or from my own knowledge there is not, to my mind, any inconsistency in the views expressed by the Prime Minister and by the Minister for Defence. 
The Commonwealth Government is well aware  v(  he effects of the prolonged drought in Queensland and is already providing substantial assistance to that State. Requests for assistance in such circumstances are always dealt with as quickly as possible, and I can assure the honourable senator that the recent proposals submitted by the Premier of Queensland - as the honourable senator will appreciate, these will require detailed examination and careful consideration - are being treated as most urgent in the circumstances. 
The answer to the first part of the question asked by the honourable senator is yes, an instruction has been issued through the Reserve Bank concerning differential rates for primary industry. I think that the part of the question concerning the application of the rates and the various refinements of the application to which the honourable senator referred should be placed on the notice paper and I will get a considered reply from the Treasurer. 
As is known, the Minister for Defence is currently in Washington in the United States and amongst other things is having discussions in relation to the F111. It would be completely inappropriate for me to make a comment in advance of his return to Australia when no doubt he will make a full statement in relationto any matter that he has discussed there. 
I would like to intercede to answer this question because I understand that the honourable senator directed an almost identical question to me several weeks ago. He also directed a similar question to  Senator Cotton  in his capacity as Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport.  Senator Cotton  has written to the honourable senator advising him that the matter has been referred to me for comment, but the honourable senator may not yet have received that letter. I am in the process of having a comment prepared for me by the Department. Some time ago  Senator Bishop  asked me whether I would make a comprehensive statement about the aircraft industry in Australia. At present I am examining a draft of that statement and I would hope to present it to the Senate, if not tomorrow then on Thursday. 
Yes. 
The honourable senator has asked about the response to questions placed on the notice paper. I have in front of me advice as to answers to such questions that are to be furnished tonight. I assume that honourable senators have received this advice, which shows that answers to about 40 questions on notice will be given tonight. 
Am I answering the question or are you? If you want to answer it, you may do so. 
In a moment when I showed perhaps a lack of restraint I did not complete my answer to  Senator Kennelly.  I do not want to appear to be discourteous to the honourable senator. In addition to questions on notice being answered today there are others which, although not on the notice paper, are being answered. Every effort will be made to supply many answers this week. 
When it comes to questions in this place, if one lives by the sword one perishes by the sword.  Senator O'Byrne's  question suggested that because of a march by farmers in Victoria the Government has done 2 things: Firstly, it has decided on a differential rate of interest for farmers and, secondly, it has given special concessions in relation to interest on estate duties. It is my recollection that interest on estate duties was mentioned in the policy speech, which was a. fair time ago, and that interest rates have been dealt with in this place.  Senator Webster  asked a whole series of questions long before the march took place and I gave an assurance that the matter was being considered by the Government.I think that disposes quite conclusively of any suggestion that the problems of the rural industries have been dealt with specially because of a very orderly march by farmers in Melbourne. This is not to suggest that the rural industries in Australia do not have particular problems - they have. No-one would be silly enough to suggest that they do not have problems. 
As  Senator McManus  said in the debate on the Address-in-Reply, the problems of the rural industries exist not only in Australia but also in every other free country. Coming now to the ultimate part of  Senator O'Byrne's  question, he has suggested that because of some spirited action by farmers in Melbourne, those who are involved with interest rates on housing loans should do the same thing and may achieve the same result. I have demonstrated that the result in relation to farmers had nothing to do with the march. 
On  5th  March  Senator Lillico  asked me the following question without notice: 
Is it not correct that there is in existence a treaty signed by North Vietnam not only guaranteeing the neutrality of Laos, but also agreeingto withdraw all North Vietnamese troops from that country? Who are the members of the commission, if there is one, that is charged with ensuring that the treaty is observed? What is the attitude of that commission regarding the unprovoked aggression of North Vietnam against Laos? 
I said that, as the question related to the precise provisions of a treaty, it would be proper for me to obtain a considered reply from the Minister for External Affairs. The Minister has provided the following answer: 
North Vietnam is one of thirteen signatories of the Declaration on the Neutrality of Laos, which entered into force on its signature in Geneva on 23rd July 1962. The parties declared that (paragraph 1)- they recognise and will respect and observe in every way the sovereignty, independence, neutrality, unity and territorial integrity of the Kingdom of Laos.' 
Under the Protocol to the Declaration, the same signatories agreed, inter alia, that (Article 2) - 
All foreign regular and irregular troops, foreign paramilitary formations and foreign military personnel shall be withdrawn from Laos . . . ' 
The Protocol also provided that the International Commission for Supervision and Control in Laos, which had originally been established by the 1954 Agreement on the Cessation of Hostilities in Laos, should supervise and control the cease-fire (Article 9) and the withdrawal  of  foreign regular and irregular troops, foreign paramilitary formations and foreign military personnel (Article 10). The Commission is composed of representatives of Canada, India, and Poland, with the representative  of  India as Chairman. Article 14 of the Protocol requires that decisions relating to violations of the more important Articles of the 
Protocol and all recommendations by the Commission bo adopted unanimously. This requirement, and the consistent refusal of the Pathet Lao to grant the Commission access to territory under their control, have made it difficult for the Commission to discharge its mandate. 
The Protocol also gives the Co-Chairman of the 1962 Conference, the Foreign . Ministers of Great Britain and the Soviet Union, the responsibility for circulating to the members of the Conference the reports and any other important information they receive from the Commission. I am not aware that the Commission has submitted any report on the situation arising from the current North Vietnamese aggression in Laos. 
On 5th March 1970  Senator Poyser  asked me whether the Prime Minister had received any representations, from the Victorian Government or otherwise, seeking Commonwealth financial assistance for grape growers at Tresco in Victoria whose crops were damaged by a hail storm. The Prime Minister has now provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The hail storm to which the honourable  Senator is  presumably referring occurred early in January this year. No representations seeking Commonwealth financial assistance in respect of damage caused by this hail storm have been received. 
On 11th March,  Senator Kennelly  asked me the following question without notice: 
I desire to ask a question of the leader of the Government in the Senate. My question follows the one asked of him by  Senator Greenwood  from Victoria. I ask the Minister whether he has had brought to his notice an article in the 'Canberra Times' of 6th March 1970 which refers to a speech purported to be made by Averell Hardman, the former chief United States delegate to the Paris peace talks, in which he said that the  President  of South Vietnam,  President  Thieu, had pulled the rug out from negotiations several times. As peace in Vietnam is very important to Australia because our troops are there, I wonder whether the Government has taken the trouble to see if the facts are as stated by this eminent United States peace negotiator. 
I said that I would obtain a reply from the Department of External Affairs. The Minister for External Affairs has provided the following answer: 
The Government is aware of the views reportedly expressed by  Mr Hardman,  in his personal capacity. The Government does not share those views. 
On ll th March,  Senator Murphy  asked me the following question without notice: 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for External Affairs supply, for the information of the Senate, information as to when Australia was asked to become involved in Vietnam, from whom the request came, in what form the request was made and, if the request was in any written or printed form, whether a copy of it could be tabled in the Senate? 
I said that I would attempt to obtain the information for which the honourable senator was asking. The Minister for External Affairs has provided the following answer: 
The circumstances of the Government's decisions to send to the Republic of Vietnam, at the invitation of the Government of that country, a group of Australian military instructors in 1962 and a combat force of an infantry battalion in 1963 were set out in statements made respectively on 24th May 1962, by the then Minister for Defence,  Mr Athol  Townley, and on 29th April, 1965, by the then Prime Minister,  Sir Robert  Menzies. The latter was made in the House of Representatives; the text of the statement issued by  Mr Townley  is as follows: 
The Minister for Defence, the  Hon.  Athol Townley, announced today that at the invitation of the Government of the Republic of Vietnam, Australia was sending a group of military instructors lo that country. 

 Mr Townley said that there is today in Vietnam an urgent problem of communist infiltration and insurgency which is fomented, directed and supported from North Vietnam. Australia has already given some assistance to the Government of South Vietnam in meeting this threat by providing communications equipment, barbed wire and other materials for village defence, and has promised more aid of this nature. 
The need has now emerged for military training assistance, particularly in the field of jungle warfare, in which Australian forces had particularly valuable experience. Up to some 30 Australian Army personnel will be sent to provide instruction in jungle warfare, village defence and other related activities such as engineering and signals. Colonel F. P. Serong, formerly Commandant of the Jungle Training Centre at Canungra, would shortly visit Saigon to ascertain on the spot the most effective way in which the Australian instructors could be fitted into the defensive measures against the communist activities. 

 Mr Townley emphasised that Australia was not providing combat forces, nor had she been asked by the Government of Vietnam to provide such forces. The role of the Australian Army Instructors would be to assist in the training of the people of Vietnam and so help them to defeat the Vietcong communists, whose aim is to take over that country by organised terrorism. 

 Mr Townley stated that if the Communists were to achieve their aims in Vietnam this would gravely affect the security of the whole South East Asian area and ultimately of Australia itself. The Australian Government's response to the invitation to assist Vietnam, which is a Protocol State under the SEATO Treaty, was in accordance with Australia's obligations under that Treaty.' 
As to the tabling of the document or documents Involved, there is a well established principle in these matters that communications between Governments are confidential to the Governments concerned. The Government does not believe it is appropriate to depart from that principle in this case. 
-(New South Wales Minister for Supply) - by leave - I wish to inform the Senate that the Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  left Australia on 30th March to visit Vietnam and the United States. In Saigon he has had discussions with senior leaders of the South Vietnamese Government and with Vietnamese, United States and Australian officials and Service commanders. On 4th April  Mr Fraser  arrived in Washington to have discussions with the Secretary of Defence,  Mr Laird,  on aspects of the F111 projects and contract.  Mr Fraser  is expected to return to Australia on14th April and during his absence the Postmaster-General  (Mr Hulme)  is acting as Minister for Defence. 
I also wish to inform the Senate that the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  left Australia on 5th April for Korea and Japan. He will be attending the third annual meeting of the Board of Governors of the Asian Development Bank in Seoul and will also have discussions in Tokyo with the Japanese Minister of Finance. The Treasurer is expected to return to Australia on 18th April. During  Mr Bury's  absence the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  will be acting as Treasurer. 
(New South Wales - Minister for Supply) - by leave  -  I ask for leave of the Senate to incorporate in Hansard a statement on international affairs made in another place by the Minister for External Affairs  (Mr McMahon).  The statement has been circulated and honourable senators will be aware that the date of it is 19th March last. Then I intend to move that the Senate take note of the paper. 
On the procedure? 
SenatorWillesee - Is this the main statement? 
This is the main statement on foreign affairs and in a moment 1 will move that the Senate take note of the statement. Rather than read it now, since it was delivered in the other place- 
SenatorByrne - Was it not read in the Senate simultaneously with its reading in the other place? 
No. 
Yes. It happened because of the problems that arose on that Thursday night, in the management of affairs with general business. 

 Senator WILLESEE (Western Australia) - by leave - Statements on foreign affairs by the Minister for External Affairs are always regarded by this Parliament as extremely important. It has been the policy to have them read simultaneously in each House, as  Senator Byrne  has indicated. It was not done in this instance because of the arrangement of business and the fact that the Senate was to rise for a short recess. The Government does not make a practice of not having the statements read simultaneously in each House. If it did so, the Opposition would not agree with that practice. We are now confronted with the fact that this statement was read in the other place before Easter and has had wide publicity.I understand that the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Anderson)  is to make a short statement on Australia's aid to Indonesia. I intend to move the adjournment of the debate so that both statements may be debated. On this occasion the Opposition does not object to incorporation in Hansard of the statement on foreign affairs made in the other place by the Minister for External Affairs  (Mr McMahon).  because we know that it is not the practice of the Government to follow this procedure. 
I ask for leave to incorporate the statement in Hansard. 
The  ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Sir Magnus Cormack)  - The pro posal is that the statement be incorporated in Hansard. There being no objection, that course will be followed. 
Honourable senators will understand that where the personal pronoun in the first person is used, it refers to the Minister for External Affairs. The statement reads: In this, my first speech to Parliament as Minister for External Affairs, I will not attempt a detailed round-up of world events. Instead I will try to describe some of the important movements in world affairs which an Australian Government must lake into account in developing its foreign policy. Profound changes are taking place in the Asian and Pacific region- it is here we live and where we can make our greatest contribution. The effect of these changes cannot all be predicted with certainty. Consequently, we must remain sensitively aware of their effects and always readyto make adjustments where necessary. 
It is also the beginning of a new decade and a suitable time for us totake stock of what has been happening in the last few years of the 1960s and to assess it against the background of the broad objectives of Australian foreign policy. It cannot be repeated too often that the supreme objective of our foreign policy is to protect and enhance our security and other vital interests - political, economic and social. We must do this with the knowledge that our own welfare and security are inextricably bound up with the welfare and security of others. We must know precisely what the circumstances are, what dangers they present and what opportunities they offer, and in the context of such knowledge decide what we must do to solve our problems. 
In describing the major trends I believe it is the responsibility of an Australian Foreign Minister to present them objectively and candidly to Parliament. I also believe that the people of Australia must be taken fully into the Government's confidence about the problems which it faces in our international relations. I do not think these problems can be dealt with successfully unlessthe Australian people understand them and support the solutions which we propose. In foreign affairs candour is not always easy. Official confidences have to be respected and the feelings of our friends and allies have to be considered. The effect of our words on the public opinion of other countries also has to be weighed. Notwithstanding these limitations it is possible for the Government - indeed it is its duty - to speak frankly and to expose its policies to the fullest public debate. 
In the years following the Second World War practically all of our neighbours have ceased to be dependencies and have attained full sovereignty as independent nations. Throughout these 25 years each of them has struggled to establish stable and efficient administrations, to maintain order and harmony within their territories and to raise the living standard of its peoples. By their own efforts and with economic and other help from friendly nations all of them have made significant progress. They have laid a solid basis on which, given favourable circumstances and the continuing cooperation of their economically more favoured friends, they might reasonably expect to make even more significant progress in the coming decade. 
As we enter the 1970's, however, we see a number of major trends which introduce important new factors which bear on future developments and which in some cases carry new strains and new problems for the region. The major trends in world affairs with which I propose to deal are: Communist policies; the reduction of British influence east of Suez aud in particular the withdrawal of British forces from Malaysia and Singapore; the dramatic growth of Japan with the promise this has for greatly increased influence in the world at large and in our own region in particular; and the comprehensive doctrine enunciated by  President  Nixon concerning the world role of the United States. 
I will refer the honourable senator's question for consideration by the Department of Shipping and Transport, if that is the appropriate department. 
In response to the question and statement of the Leader of the Opposition I point out that the question is based upon a Press report he has presumably read. 
By way of interjection  Senator Cavanagh  asks: 'Is it true?' lt is a Press comment. As everybody including the Leader of the Opposition knows, the Minister for Defence is in Washington in the United States of America at the present time, having discussions with the Defence Department and the manufacturers in relation to Australia's acquisition of the Fill. It would be quite unreal and quite absurd to suggest that whatever the views of the United States Government were they would be reflected in a Press comment. 
Quite obviously, when the Minister for Defence returns to Australia he will report to the Government; he will report to the Executive. Then at an appropriate time any views that he has and the Government has in relation to the matter will be revealed to the Parliament. But to suggest, as  Senator Murphy  does, that we should start drawing conclusions and taking decisions on the basis of some report that apparently he read in the Press, quite frankly does not really measure up to the normal standard of question 1 would have expected to be asked. 
Dealing with the first part of the honourable senator's question, yes, my attention has been drawn to the fact that petroleum has been retailed in Victoria at 7c or 8c a gallon less than the normal price. I would not argue about the exact price, but I accept that it has been retailed at a lesser sum. Dealing with that part of the question which drew conclusions from that fact, honourable senators should understand that the retail price of petrol is based on the price-fixing arrangement in operation in South Australia where petroleum products are subject to price control. It may well be that the petrol is imported by the company concerned without having regard to the arrangement whereby all Australian oil companies have to take a percentage of the crude oil produced in Australia to ensure that eventually Australia will produce all its own oil requirements. A series of possibilities is contained in the' honourable senator's question. The actual facts as to why a company can import petrol and retail it at less than the normal price would be matters for the Minister for Shipping and Transport or for the Minister for Customs and Excise, who would have some control in the matter. I think that the question should be directed to those Ministers. I would caution honourable senators to ascertain the facts and the circumstances before they make any firm judgments. I hope that, in response to the honourable senator's question, he will be supplied with an answer which will give all the facts. 
As to the first two parts of the question, I have information which I have had in my portfolio since 17th March and therefore my replies would be based at that date. In reply to the first question, there are no Australian civilians held prisoner by the North Vietnamese or the Vietcong. No Australian members of the armed forces are, to our knowledge, held prisoner by the Vietcong although two Australian servicemen are classified as missing presumed dead. As to the number of American armed forces personnel held prisoner by the North Vietnamese and the Vietcong, the most recent figures available are those contained in a news release dated 19th February 1970 by the Assistant Secretary of Defence and Public Affairs. This release gives the figure for American servicemen captured or interned as at 14th February 1970 as 431, of whom 54 are Army personnel, 142 Navy, 21 Marine and 214 Air Force personnel. The third and final question of the honourable senator related to the humane treatment of prisoners of war. Australia has made clear its commitment to the observance of the Geneva Conventions as these apply to the treatment of prisoners of war. As recently as 14th November 1969 during the 24th United Nations General Assembly the Australian representatives on the Third Committee delivered a strong statement much of which was specifically addressed to the matter of prisoners of war in Vietnam. I should be happy to let honourable senators know of the substance of this statement and make a copy of it available. 

 - Senator Bishop asks about this temporary displacement of certain personnel at Tidbinbilla tracking station. A short explanation of it is that deep space activity has had a turn-back as a result of requirements of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration and the personnel who were engaged for this work are no longer required. The National Aeronautics and Space Administration, not the Department of Supply, determines the work load. We are acting as an agency of NASA and because of the work load it has now determined there will be a redundancy of approximately 35 positions. At the same time work in support of Apollo missions at Tidbinbilla is proceeding. 
As honourable senators are aware, it is planned to launch Apollo 13 next Sunday and its course will be tracked by the personnel involved in Apollo space activity. The situation referred to by the honourable senator stems from a failure after launch of a Pioneer E spacecraft late last year. The honourable senator raised the point whether the Department of Supply should retain the personnel to whom he referred in anticipation of employing them in deep space activity in the future. The nature of our arrangement with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration of the United States of America is such that it is not within our competence to do so. We have an arrangement whereby we act as agents for NASA. A subcontractor is employed at Tidbinbilla and people employed there are really employees of the sub-contractor. In this instance, the sub-contractor is the Hawker Siddeley organisation - at least in respect of some employees. 
We are making efforts to place some of the personnel, wherever possible. The piece of paper that  I  have in front of me suggests that it is hoped that more than half of the personnel declared redundant will be found alternative employment either at Woomera or in the Australian Capital Territory. We are making a general effort to place them, but the point that must bc appreciated is that NASA sets out the work load and says to us: 'Righto, this will be the work load'. It may be a work load in respect of deep space research or Apollo launchings. but NASA in fact sets out the load. It is completely beyond our responsibility to say to NASA: 'Right. You will pay for if - and NASA does pay for it - 'and we will act as your agent, but we will reserve our right to retain employees even though there is no work for them', lt is not possible for us to do that, but we are trying in other ways to help the people involved as best we can. 
The honourable senator's question is based on a comment taken from a statement presumably made by  Mi  Freeth on his arrival in Japan as Australia's Ambassador. I believe that it would be quite wrong to make judgments on an extract from any statement that was made in those circumstances. That is not necessarily a reflection on the Press. However, I suggest that until the text of the Ambassador's statement is before the honourable senator he should make reservations in any judgments he may form. The honourable senator went on from his reference to that extract to what  Mr Freeth  is reported to have said, and he asked a series of questions about what should be the policy of the Japanese Government in relation to rearmament and what the Australian Government's reflections on that policy should be. 
I ask the honourable senator not to put into my mouth words that I did not say. He will appreciate that at the moment he is in a rather sensitive area. All I can say is that at question time it would be quite wrong to reflect upon what an honourable senator thought was the policy of another government. I should imagine that this would be a matter of policy for the government concerned. If and when the policy of that government was known, that would be the time for the Australian Government to make a considered comment about it. 
My recollection of the arrangement that was entered into in relation to oil companies being required to take a proportionate amount of crude oil for refining is that there was a penalty rate of duty and that if they did not take their percentage of crude for refining they would have to pay a higher duty for any crude or refined oil which was imported. The proposition that the honourable senator is now posing is that at least one company which is retailing petrol cannot find an outlet for the refining of the share of Australian crude that it has to take. When I was Minister for Customs and Excise I had quite a bit to do with the original agreement and negotiations. This happened some years ago but, as I recall it, this situation did arise and some arrangements were made to meet it. I would need now to refer the matter to the present Minister for Customs and Excise, because I believe that this now comes within his administration, to ascertain the current position. I will ask the Minister for Customs and Excise to prepare an answer to the question to inform us of the facts of the matter. 
I did not think that my reply was at variance with the statements mentioned. What I said was that it would be wise to find out the substance of what  Mr Freeth  did say when he arrived in Tokyo. Since the honourable senator asked his question I have been handed a note from the Minister for External Affairs in which he says that the Australian Ambassador to Japan states that the Press report in question - that is the report to which the honourable senator referred - gives a completely misleading account of his,  Mr Freeth's,  remarks. He said, in fact, in regard to Japanese military efforts outside Japan that the Japanese themselves had made it clear that they were not contemplating any kind of military role beyond their own territory, and that their contribution to regional stability and security would be limited to the economic field. 
The Minister for External Affairs said that the views of the Government on Japanese foreign and defence policy were set out in his preliminary statement of 19th March in which considerable attention was paid to the position of Japan and the plans of the Japanese Government for the development of the self defence forces. Those plans indicate a greater self reliance and willingness by Japan to accept responsibility for its own defence. The Government of Japan has indicated that it has no intention of assuming security responsibilities going beyond the defence of Japanese territory. 
The honourable senator is asking me to give judgments on policy. I think it would be proper for me to have the question put on the notice paper. I forbear to comment on the domino theory, having in mind what has been said about it here in the past. 
Without offending against the law of anticipation, I rather suspect that we are to have later some debate on the subject of war service homes. The honourable senator knows, as we all do, that applications under the War Service Homes Act are covered by a normal appropriation which is fixed from year to year. For the present financial year the appropriation was increased by $5m. There is no policy in that. It is a known fact. The Senate approved the appropriation in the last Budget session and fixed the amount of appropriation for war service homes. I must have missed the purport of the honourable senator's question. That appropriation is not a matter of policy; it is a fact. 
I think that that question very properly could be put in the normal way to the Minister for Housing who has responsibility for war service homes. If the question could be answered in advance for a financial year - at present we have only 2 months of the financial year to go - I am sure that the Minister would give every assistance and as much information as she could. 
Yes, I am in the generality aware of the preferential arrangements that are in existence and the broad concept of the objectives of such a policy. As to whether the Government would enter into some new arrangements in relation to individuals or companies would be a matter which would first need to be looked at by the department with which the responsibility lies; secondly, it would need to be looked at from a Treasury point of view; thirdly, it would need to be looked at in relation to the Commonwealth's role vis-a-vis the role of the States. Finally, it would be clearly a matter of policy and for that reason I think the proper thing to do would be for the honourable senator to place the question on the notice paper. 1 will then have it processed through, I would imagine, the Department of National Development for a reply to the honourable senator. 
Insofar as  Senator McClelland  referred to the preservation of historical film and the role which is being played by the National Library of Australia, 1 shall bring his remarks to the attention of  Mr President  who,I understand, has some control and responsibility in this matter. If, in addition to referring the question to  Mr President,  there is a need to refer it to the Prime Minister's Department, I shall also do that. 
I imagine that the predominance of any legislation that the Commonwealth could introduce or apply to the importation of drugs, as with the importation of any other goods, would have application through the provisions of the customs law. 
Yes. The penalties that are written into the Customs Act are geared to the importation of drugs and prohibited imports. I would imagine that any other proposals would be within the responsibility of State law. However, 1 accept the point made by the honourable senator as to the Senate Select Committee, which is working very hard and doing a good job in examining the broad problem. Any amendments to State or Commonwealth laws in the climate of the inquiry being conducted by the Committee would appear on the face of it to be incorrectly timed. 1 cannot accept any responsibility for the actions of the States. The Commonwealth would have to look at the matter in the light of the nature of the situation in which it became involved. The point made by the honourable senator is acknowledged and I will at least acquaint the Government with the views he has expressed. 
The honourable senator's question relates to a decision by the banks to extend preferential interest rates to primary industry. The honourable senator suggests that in view of that decision to apply a preferential rate it would be essential to ensure that there is no falling away of the amount that banks will make available to primary industry. It would be early days to make any comment about the quantity of finance to be made available to primary industry against the background of that new decision, but I would be very surprised if there were an adverse effect of the kind contemplated by the honourable senator. Action of that kind would be in direct opposition to the intention in applying a preferential rate. Finance would be made available to primary industry by the banking institutions in a situation where the banks have an equity in the organisations and farms in rural areas. In other words, it may well be that assistance would be given to rural industry in areas where it is already being given. In that situation it would be in the best interests of the bank as well as the primary industry to ensure that a primary producer remained viable and capable in his industry. I do not imagine that what is postulated by the honourable senator will happen. I am quite certain that the history of banks and the banking institutions in their assistance to primary industry would make such a possibility unlikely. However, I shall refer the question to the Treasurer. 
It is my understanding that the Commonwealth intercedes where it is considered the conditions in a particular area constitute a national disaster. 
In those circumstances it would be competent for the Commonwealth to consider any request for assistance. The request normally comes from the Premier of the State concerned and is usually as a result of representations to him from the area affected. Where a national disaster occurs within its own Territories the responsibility for the initiation of such a request lies somewhere within the Commonwealth Government's own organisations. It is completely a matter of judgment whether assistance is granted when disaster conditions arise as a result of some act of nature. The honourable senator raised a query in relation to a particular area. May I say that I have been there and it is a fascinating area. If it is considered that disaster conditions exist in that area it is perfectly competent for some responsible person, organisation or government to make submissions to the Commonwealth for assistance. The submissions would be directed to the Prime Minister. 
by leave - 
Prior to the Easter recess, honourable senators will recall that in a reply to a question from  Senator Bishop  I advised that when Parliament resumed I would make a comprehensive statement on the Australian aircraft industry, including reference to 'offset' arrangements. In dealing with this subject I think I should attempt firstly to give a brief indication of the size and nature of the defence aircraft industry in Australia. 
It is concentrated substantially in three main production organisations: 
The Government Aircraft Factories which are operated by my Department at Fishermen's Bend and Avalon in Victoria. 
Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation Pty Ltd at Fishermen's Bend, Victoria. 
Hawker de Havilland Australia Pty Ltd at Bankstown and Lidcombe in New South Wales. 
There are other contractors associated with the industry, but the organisations I have mentioned constitute the main production capacity. Currently the industry employs about 8.000 persons. The 'at cost' value of the fixed assets of the three main organisations approximates $38m. 
The Government Aircraft Factory at Fishermen's Bend has staff and plant to handle the design, manufacture, assembly and testing of airframes and guided weapons. Final assembly and flight testing of defence aircraft is carried out at the Avalon facilities. Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation Pty Ltd has capacity for the design, manufacture, assembly and testing of airframes. The company also has facilities for the manufacture and overhaul of jet engines. Hawker de Havilland Australia Pty Ltd operates facilities which are capable of airframe and limited engine work. It is considered by my Department that the industry, as now established, has a range of technological and manufacturing resources and facilities not inappropriate to the need to provide effective peace-time support to the Services, with some reserve capability for a war situation. 
There have been problems in matching workload to available capacity, and a great deal of attention has been given to developing new projects suitable for the industry. At the same time my Department has devoted considerable effect to examining ways of achieving greater effectiveness, stability and economy of operation. It could be said that the problem is threefold: Firstly, there is the need to maintain basic defence aircraft facilities capable of supporting the Services; secondly, there is the need to ensure that the technologies of the industry are upgraded in line with the latest developments; and thirdly, there is the need to achieve economy of operation, which in itself not only involves developing projects for the industry but also rationalising effort. It is the continued policy of the Government to maintain a basic defence aircraft industry in Australia which will develop in line with Australia's future needs. With this in mind let me now deal with how we see the forward prospects of the industry. 
A problem of the past has been major fluctuations in workload as manufacture under licence of aircraft such as the Canberra, Sabre and Mirage has brought the need for rapid production build-up, comparatively short periods at high levels of production and then a sharp drop in activity level as each project was completed. Added to this, usually the major projects have been separated by several years of low level of activity with consequent increases in cost, drop in efficiency and loss of key technical staff. Build-up for new projects has been accompanied by major recruitment problems, and inefficiency during build-up and learning periods. As opposed to that situation, we find a fairly steady and continuous workload arising from spares manufacture, repairs, overhauls and modifications. Locally designed projects such as Jindivik and Ikara have also resulted in a long term workload. A total of 380 Jindiviks has been built and 210 have been sold overseas to earn an export income of $20m. Orders for a further 54 are in hand. Ikara will provide work into 1974 at least and is expected to earn export income in excess of S3 Om. 
The aim is to attain a workload situation that reduces the peaks and troughs and supports an effective, viable and economic aircraft industry. This involves considerable effort by my Department and also by the industry itself. This workload will need to flow from a combination of local project design; manufacture of aircraft engines and guided weapons under licence; spares manufacture and repair and overhaul work; coproduction, offsets and sub-contracting; and commercial work. I will deal with each of these in that order. I will refrain from mentioning all proposals in prospect but will quote examples only. 
An essential element of the industry is a capable design and development organisation. Honourable senators will be aware that Cabinet recently approved the development of Project 'N' at the Government Aircraft Factories. Initially the project will involve an estimated expenditure of $3.2m for the manufacture of two flying prototypes and a test, airframe of a light, twin engined, multi purpose aircraft. The first of the two prototypes should be flying by mid 1971. Project 'N' is intended to meet a number of roles for the Australian forces, chiefly in a variety of support roles. It is designed specifically for operations involving short, unprepared airstrips and minimal maintenance support facilities, and will have a flexibility of layout to accommodate a wide variety of payloads. The manufacture of these prototypes will stimulate the design group of the Government Aircraft Factories and will help prevent the loss of key design personnel. If Project 'N' meets our expectations it could yield a useful workload for the local aircraft industry, and particularly the Government Aircraft Factories, for some years. At the present time, there are no plans for local manufacture of the engines, but if sufficient orders for the aircraft were received to make such manufacture economical, further consideration would be given to this possibility. As I have said, the aircraft was originally designed to satisfy our service requirements but we are hopeful that with modifications it will hold appeal for commercial interests and the armed forces of other countries. 
I have advised the Senate previously that the Government Aircraft Factories, in consultation with industry, are designing and developing a small pilotless, target drone known as Turana. This drone is based on the successful Australian designed Ikara anti-submarine missile and should provide the Government Aircraft Factories and industry with a useful but small design and manufacturing workload. There will not be a large demand in Australia for the drone, but as with Jindivik and Ikara interest has been shown in it overseas and we are hopeful that there will be export sales. The project is still in the design and development stage. 
Turning now to the second category of workload, that is manufacture of aircraft, engines and guided weapons under licence, the two main proposals in early prospect are the manufacture of a light observation helicopter for Service requirements and an anti aircraft weapon system for the Army. In his recent defence statement, my colleague the Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  indicated that it was planned to purchase 84 light observation helicopters for the Services and that the final selection of the type of helicopter will be made on the basis of the best prospects for local manufacture. Proposals are now being sought from selected overseas manufacturers on the basis of a programme of both military and civil helicopter production with a substantial Australian content. The decision on the anti aircraft system is not expected until late in 1970, but a detailed study based on substantial manufacture in Australia has already been undertaken. The Senate will appreciate that the replacement for the Mirage aircraft is still some years off and that the decision in that regard will not assist the current situation. If New Zealand adopts the Macchi trainer aircraft, we have offered to fulfil its requirement from Australian production. 
I will now deal with the third category of workload prospects, namely spares manufacture and repair and overhaul work. A steady workload can be expected in this category to support aircraft, engines and missiles in service. Senators will appreciate that the requirement in this regard in .elation to engines is more constant than on airframes. 
The fourth category of workload is coproduction, offsets and sub-contracting. I might mention here that the term 'offsets' seems to be finding loose application in an attempt to describe all those classes of work under this category. Strictly the term applies only to those circumstances where the customer, for some reason, does not undertake part manufacture of the item he is buying overseas but requires other work to be allocated to him as an offset. The term co-production' applies to those circumstances where the customer undertakes either to manufacture a part of the item he is buying or perhaps the same part not only for the quantity he is buying but for the full production programme of the overseas supplier. The term 'sub-contracting' applies to circumstances where local companies are seeking sub-contract work which is in no way related to a buying programme. I think it important that we realise these distinctions, otherwise coafusion will occur. 
Negotiations with the United Slates Department of Defence have resulted in a policy designed to encourage the opportunity for Australian industry to seek work from United States firms engaged on defence contracts. Honourable senators will recall earlier arrangements whereby a United States Defence procurement officer was located in my Department and a post of Trade Commissioner, Supply, was established in Washington. As announced by my colleagues - the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen)  and the Minister for Defence - and me during the Easter recess, the Government is to set up new machinery to work closely with Australian industry in an effort to increase its participation in this work. The new machinery to be created will consist of a Standing Committee of the three departments principally involved, Defence, Supply and Trade and Industry, and a new advisory committee of businessmen which will be appointed at an early date. 
The Committee of Departments will have the task of developing and carrying out a co-ordinated programme of work to promote increased overseas sales of Australian built equipment and components; to encourage co-operative research and development projects between Australian and overseas industry; and to encourage firms to take on work in Australia for overseas firms wishing to build up the Australian content of items offered for sale to the Australian armed forces and to seek sub-contracts from United States defence contractors. In this task the Government will have the advice and assistance of the proposed advisory committee of businessmen. lt is the Government's policy to increase where practicable the proportion of defence equipment produced in Australia, and the present programme of seeking orders overseas should assist in the maintenance and development of Australian defence production capability and the upgrading of our industrial technology. This, indeed, applies particularly to our defence aircraft industry. There are current prospects in all three classes of work - coproduction, offsets and sub-contracting - and these must all be pursued vigorously. 1 will not go into these prospects at the present time. Senators are aware of visits by overseas companies to Australia and by Australians to overseas companies in relation to certain proposals. 
The final category of workload is commercial work. It is not an easy matter to find commercial work of a nature appropriate to the capability of the aircraft industry. The type of commercial work required is not so much that which results in a diversification of activities but that which utilises the administrative and productive skills of the people who, together with the physical facilities, represent important defence potential. Such work must also be able to bear the relatively heavy overhead costs provoked by this type of activity. Ideally, the defence aircraft industry should become more involved in civil aircraft work of a like nature. 
As I said earlier, my Department has devoted considerable effort to examining ways of achieving greater effectiveness, stability and economy of operations. It is believed that there is some scope for rationalisation of activities, particularly in relation to the Government Aircraft Factories and Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation Pty Ltd at Fishermen's Bend. My Department, in consultation with other appropriate departments, will be actively pursuing this possibility in the coming months. 1 emphasise that our aim will bc to achieve a more effective organisation that can be built onto as Australia's future needs in the aircraft field dictate. In any rationalisation scheme that might be adopted, full consideration will be given to the interests of the employees concerned. 
Summing up, I make the following points in answer to  Senator Bishop  and for the information of the Senate: lt is Government policy to maintain an effective defence aircraft industry in Australia, (t is considered that, in the interest of the future of the industry, there is some scope for rationalisation of activities in the Fishermen's Bend complex. This matter is being actively pursued. A great deal of effort continues to be put into developing suitable design and other projects for the industry and placing the industry in a position where it can participate in co-production and offset arrangements and pursue sub-contract work. Developments, in this regard, as announced during the Easter recess of Parliament, include the setting up of an inter-departmental committee and an advisory committee of businessmen. In concluding, I wish to emphasise to the Senate that there will be no magical flow of work to the aircraft industry from all these arrangements. The progress achieved to date has been as a result of long and persistent effort by all concerned. This effort will need to be continued. I move: 
Thai ihe Senate take note of the statement. 
by leave - In the last few minutes  Senator Murphy  has confirmed an argument which he put before the suspension of the sitting and which goes to the very substance of the function of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee. What he is saying is that when that Committee meets and comes to a conclusion that a regulation should be disallowed, the Senate should, when the Committee's recommendation comes before it, proceed without delay so to disallow the regulation. The purpose of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee is not to sit in judgment on matters of substance. Its purpose is to act as a watchdog, to satisfy itself that the Executive is not doing something by regulation which the Parliament has not had a proper opportunity to consider and decide upon. The Committee says: 'We consider that what is being done should not be done by regulation. If the Government wishes to do this it should bring in a parliamentary enactment which the Parliament can look at and debate and make a judgment upon'. That is the function of the Committee. Its function is not to say: 'We do not think these allowances should be paid'. 
I want to get to the result of what  Senator Murphy  is proposing. I ask the honourable senator to allow me to develop my point. Ever since the Regulations and Ordinances Committee has been in existence, to my conscious knowledge, it has from time to time, in the exercise of its role as a watchdog, moved in the Senate for the disallowance of a regulation and has said to the Government, in effect: 'We consider that these things should not be done by regulation. We believe that if you want these things to be done you should proceed by introducing substantive legislation.' 

 Senator Murphy now proposes that we should depart from that traditional practice. 
He suggests that when the Regulations and Ordinances Committee puts a motion before this Senate we should proceed immediately to a decision. It may well be, as he himself has pointed out, that the Senate will say after proper consideration of the matter: We will disallow this regulation.' Then something that had been done by the Administration would cease to be operative. If we consider the application of such a decision in this case, if the regulations are disallowed certain allowances which have been paid to heads of defence forces would then be disallowed, so they would not be receiving those allowances. There would then need to be some kind of retrospective legislation. 
Here we have a classic example. When the movement for disallowance was brought before this Senate I took the matter to the Government and said: 'It is the view of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee that this should not be done by regulation.' The Government looked at it and said: 'We think it is proper to do it by regulation but if this is the Senate's view we will bring down substantive legislation.' I have a copy of the Bill before me. I am trying to persuade  Senator Little  so I suggest,  Senator Murphy,  that you pay attention while I am trying to do so. There is, in fact a Bill in another place. It was brought down last night. I can give only the title because I cannot debate the Bill. The title is: 'A Bill to amend the Defence Act 1903-1966 in relation to the Remuneration of Certain Officers of the Defence Force'. That Bill will come before this Senate next week. 
I can only give the honourable senator my assurance that so far as I am aware that is the intention of the Bill. 
I think there is a certain possibility that that is so. 
I made that statement on the advice given to me just before I commenced this debate, but even if it were not so, if we moved for disallowance today and that motion were carried, in  Senator Murphy's  view it would operate forthwith. Then next week a Bill would come before this Senate and if it were carried the payment of the allowances would recommence. We would then have an absurd situation in which, to make a show of strength, the Senate would have disallowed a regulation knowing that what was done under the regulation was going to be regularised a week later in a Bill. 
The practical position is that the Regulations and Ordinances Committee looks at a regulation and says: 'We do nol believe it is proper to do this by regulation. We are not arguing whether it is a good or a bad thing in itself. All we are saying is that it should be done by substantive legislation.' That is what the Committee has suggested in this instance. I have gone to the Government, as is my responsibility as Leader of the Government in the Senate, and the Government has said: 'If that is the way the Senate feels we will bring down legislation. We think it is a matter of judgment, but we are prepared to accept the Senate's view. This is what we will do.' The Government is proposing to do that. In earnest of its good faith I gave an assurance last week that we would do that. I thought that would have been sufficient, but we even went further than that and so that there could be no argument today I saw to it that the Government last night put the legislation at least on the business paper in another place. 
Are we to have the situation that the Regulations and Ordinances Committee, which is doing a good job as a watchdog, will be forced into the position that every time it suggests something that suggestion should be carried? Very often there will be a hiatus with a switching on and switching off attitude of mind. The Committee has fulfilled its function. It has pointed out to the Senate that a certain thing should be done by legislative enactment. The Government has acknowledged that and has set about to do that very thing. 
Very well. If you do not do it by legislation and you do not do it by regulation, how do you do it? 
Now the honourable senator is coming to the argument of substance. He is destroyed by his own interjection because the very purpose of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee is to indicate, not on the argument whether certain people should receive allowances, because that is Government policy- 
The Committee said that this should be disallowed because it believed that it should be done by legislative enactment. 
Of course it did. Go and read the purposes and objectives of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee. For what purpose was it created? 
The honourable senator is playing in the field of semantics and he knows that he is. The very purpose of the existence of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee was to establish whether things should be done by regulation or prevented from being done by regulation because in the judgment of the Parliament they should be aired and the Parliament should have the opportunity to look upon them and to make a judgment upon them. You know that that is written into the constitution of this very wonderful Committee. That is why it came into being. It is doing its job, and when it has done its job and has disposed of that responsibility I think that it is silly to suggest that the recommendation should be applied automatically because you do not give Government the opportunity to do the very thing you are asking it to do. That is the point. So something which has been done by regulation, inadvertently or unwisely if you like - it could be the most wonderful thing for thousands of people because it might mean giving them some special allowance - is destroyed, on  Senator Murphy's  proposition, until such time as the Government rushes about and has it redrafted in legislative form. Over the years the Regulations and Ordinances Committee has said: 'We put you on notice; do something about it' and the Government has to face up to it. We were put on notice in relation to this and we did something about it. 
A long time ago, in September 1969. 
But after all, we had the dissolution of the Parliament; we had an election on 25th October; we had a 1-day sitting in November and we had a period of delay. As you know, it is all based on the number of sitting days. Let us assume that you have a regulation in relation to the Social Services Bill or some health legislation; let us assume that certain benefits are given by regulation and let us assume, in order to get an idea of the magnitude of this proposition, that 20,000 people are getting the benefit. Let us assume also that the Regulations and Ordinances Committee has examined it and has said: 'We are not interested in the benefit but surely this should be done by Act of Parliament so that it can be debated'. The Committee submits its report and it becomes blatantly obvious that it should be done by Act of Parliament. What  Senator Murphy  is saying is that you should then proceed to disallow it. But during the period in which you disallow it and the period when the Government faces up to getting a new piece of legislation in front of the Parliament, getting it passed through both Houses and getting the royal assent there is a hiatus. 
Twenty-four hours, nonsense. 
 Again the honourable senator is not being consistent with his own knowledge of parliamentary procedures. He knows as well as I do that there must always be a period for the Draftsman to draft legislation; there must always be a period for the legislation to be dealt with in the other place; there must always be a period for it to come here by message to be dealt with in this place. It could easily be that we might be in recess or not present. A whole host of things could happen. AH I am saying is that what has been evolved with the Regulations and Ordinances Committee is a very fine procedure. The Committee looks at a thing and it carries out the role of the Senate. I think you are weakening the value of the Committee if you argue the proposition that once the Committee brings the matter into this place we, as the Senate, should proceed to deal with it forthwith and force the Senate into disallowing something which might be a very valuable and wonderful thing for the community at large, thus destroying it until such time as the Parliament can bring in a piece of legislation. I think that it would destroy the fundamental capacity of this Committee if we sustained an argument such as that. 
Coming back to the case before us,  Senator Greenwood  has suggested a deferment for 1 week. We bring in this Bill next Tuesday, Wednesday or Thursday. If the Senate does not like the Bill the Senate can knock it out but the position of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee would still exist and its timing for a continuation of the disallowance would not be destroyed. Any way you like to argue this, I cannot see the merit of  Senator Murphy's  argument. This particular case hardly comes into it. What  Senator Murphy  is really arguing in depth is that the procedures that we have had with the Regulations and Ordinances Committee over a lengthy period - ever since it was created - should be brushed aside and that when it moves to disallow we should proceed in the Senate almost automatically to a vote. I do not agree with that and I ask the Senate not to go on with it. 
 As a mark of respect to the memory of the late  Senator the Hon.  Colin McKellar, I move: 
That the Senate do now adjourn. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I had in mind to seek leave to make a statement a little later on, but as what has happened in the last 24 hours is a matter of topical interest - in fact, it is a matter of national interest - with the concurrence and the indulgence of the Senate 1 shall give some facts about it. 
I certainly will take the honourable senator's question further in the light of the information it contained. My advice at present is that 2 reports have recently been received of Russian fishing vessels in waters adjacent to Australia. On 9th and 1.0th April 3 Russian fishing vessels were sighted in the western part of Bass Strait. When sighted from the air on 3 separate occasions the ships were well outside the 12-mile declared fishing zone and were sailing away at a speed considered to be excessive for fishing. On 10th April there was a report that 14 Russian whalers were sailing westward about 30 miles off the southern coast of Western Australia. At the time of sighting these vessels were proceeding at some speed and were noi engaged in whaling. The honourable senator has asked a number of questions involving information supplementary to that which I have been able to give. 1 will take the matter up and see whether I can obtain further information for him. 
I  wish to inform the Senate that the Minister for External Affairs  (Mr McMahon)  left Australia on 11th April to visit Bangkok and Saigon. He is leading the Australian delegation to the opening stages of the Economic Commission for Asia and the Far East ministerial meeting beginning in Bangkok on 14th April, after which he will go to Vietnam for a 4-day visit.  Mr McMahon  is expected to return to Australia on 21st April. During his absence  I  am Acting Minister for External Affairs. 
 Any action taken by the Melbourne police authorities would be completely within the responsibility of the Victorian Government and it would be quite improper for mc to make any comment about it. 
I take it that the honourable senator is referring to a possible increase in the value of the superannuation unit. This would be a matter of Government policy which, I should imagine, would be considered at Budget time. I am rather surprised to hear the honourable senator say it is 15 years since the unit value was increased. 1 seem to recall that some variation was made within the last 15 years. Perhaps it was at the State level or perhaps there was some action taken by one of the ad hoc bodies concerned with superannuation. However, I will have the question examined and give the honourable senator a reply in clue course. 
 As reported on page 1622 of Hansard of 5th November 1968, I gave an answer to the honourable senator on this issue. As background to the matter I would say that in 1964, following a request from the then Lord Mayor of Sydney, the Commonwealth agreed to contribute $10,000 to meet part of the cost of erecting a fountain in Chifley Square. This was an unconditional gift from the Commonwealth. In 1967 the Lord Mayor of Sydney made further representations for an additional contribution towards the cost of the fountain. The Commonwealth agreed to contribute a further $5,000 so the total Commonwealth contribution towards the cost of the fountain was SI 5,000. I might add that at the time of the Lord Mayor's application in 1967 the cost of the fountain was estimated at $80,000. In these circumstances it would be inappropriate for the Prime Minister to seek to intervene in the day to day contractual arrangements for the construction of the fountain as these clearly are the responsibility of the Council of the City of Sydney. 
I think it is proper that I should reply to this series of questions because the matter of the Australian aircraft industry is within my responsibility as Minister for Supply and also I represent the Minister for Defence in this place. What 1 want to make clear in response to the question is that it is true that Australia has built certain aircraft under licence. We built the Mirage under licence and we built the Macchi under licence. But quite clearly at this stage of its history in technology and skills Australia is not yet ready for the task of building a sophisticated aircraft of the type that is envisaged, for instance, in the F 1 1 J C, or the Phantom, if you like. The F1 1 1 C is the most sophisticated style of aircraft known to man. 
In any case, it has to be understood - I am sure that those honourable senators on the other side of the chamber who have put their minds to the question understand this, and there are honourable senators on the other side who have a very good understanding of the problems of our aircraft industry - that our capability is one thing - and I am not denying our capability; 1 believe that we have come a tremendous way in a short time - but our requirement is another thing. If, for instance, wc wanted to build and for defence purposes to have possession of, say, 24 or 25, or even 50, strike-reconnaissance aircraft it would be stark staring crazy to set out to build (hern if that was the ultimate requirement because the cost factor would be beyond even the comprehension of  Senator Fitzgerald. 
The fact is that in that type of aircraft development, or even in commercial aircraft development, a certain work load is needed; and even so the learning curve there means that the costs become an extraordinarily important factor. Suppose Australia's requirement or that of any other small country which would have a requirement such as we would have for a strikereconnaissance aircraft was for 25 or even 50 such planes. If that was to be the total order that was to be placed in the aircraft industry factories in the country it would be completely unreal to imagine that it would be logical, practical, financially sound or wise to build the planes within the country. The question is all linked up with with a whole series of economic factors in relation to the cost. It is also linked up with the country's capacity to have licences to build the aircraft, following the experience of other countries. I suggest to the honourable senator that if Australia needs a strike-reconnaissance aircraft it will be a considerable number of years before we will be at the stage where our requirement and our economic background will justify our producing such an aircraft in Australian factories. 
It is true that in the other place yesterday there was a debate on the proposed Moratorium and that, as I understand it, it took most of the day. 
I am getting some help that I do not require. 1 was going to say that it is my understanding - it is a fact - that the Attorney-General put down a statement in the other place yesterday, that a debate ensued all day and that it ran into last night and was stood over until today. It is to be regretted that a fuller report of the debate and the issues involved in the debate was not given in the Australian Press, because I agree with  Senator Greenwood  that the issues involved are of such national importance that everybody should understand the implications inherent in this proposed Moratorium. All I can say, therefore, is that I will raise with the 
Attorney-General the question of the desirability of having a statement published which would cover the substance of the points which he has raised. 
-I understand that a number of members supporting the Government spoke at an orderly demonstration - ifI could use that term - which was conducted in Melbourne. 
It was held in the Botanic Gardens. I have read statements attributed to certain people whom I thought would have had a better sense of responsibility in relation to our democratic processes. 1 could say quite definitely that no Government  speaker  would attend or would wish to attend a function at which people would be asked to disobey the law and would be encouraged to show a degree of force which is completely inconsistent with the character of the Australian people. Everybody has a right to express a point of view, but should do so within the law. I think  Senator Devitt  and I had a discussion last year as to what are democratic rights and privileges and as to what represents anarchy. If we, as a nation, want to preserve all the rights and privileges that we enjoy, we should not put them at risk, as we should do if we were to incite people to break the law. As long as the Government of whichI am a member remains in office such action will never be countenanced. 
I am sure the honourable senator will appreciate that I would not wish to answer that question at this time. I think the question is worthy of my obtaining a considered reply and bringing it back to the honourable senator and to the Senate. I will certainly do that. 
I am not aware of the reasons for the resignations of officers from the Services. As we all appreciate, there are certain requirements in the Services in relation to resignations involving matters of training, rights, and penalties according to rank. In the circumstances I think it would be far better to take the question as a whole and have it processed in the Department of Defence so that I may obtain a considered reply to the honourable senator. 
Yes. 
The honourable senator has asked me to comment in an anticipatory way on matters contained in a policy speech. It would be quite inappropriate for me to do this at question time. I am sure that whatever this Government undertakes to do it will do to the best of its ability at all limes. 
The Minister for Trade and Industry has provided the following answers to the honourable senator's question: 
The Department does undertake an advertising and publicity campaign in Australia to draw attention to opportunities for export of Australian manufactured goods. Expenditure so far during this financial year is $68,000. , 
J. Walter Thompson Australia Pty Ltd organises the campaign, the newspaper space for which is purchased through the Commonwealth Advertising Division of the Treasury. 
Waller Thompson Australia Pty Ltd are hired on terms similar to other agencies which undertake work for the Commonwealth. The terms under which they are engaged are fixed by the Commonwealth Advertising Division of the Treasury. 
I had not seen the report in the 'Financial Review' to which the senator refers. 
J. Walter Thompson is an international agency in which 70% is owned by the staff of the company. The Australian office of J. Walter Thompson Ply Ltd was established 40 years ago. It is a member of the Australian Association of Advertising Agencies and the Australian Advertising Council. It employs all Australian staff, which number about 300 - copywriters, producers, artists, technicians and executives. Local staff members can and do own shares in the world-wide group of J. Walter Thompson &amp; Co. 
The Department of Trade and Industry uses other agencies in Australia in addition to J. Walter Thompson Australia Pty Ltd. It also works closely with many other advertising agencies retained by Australian exporters and manufacturers whose work is directed to the promotion and development of Australia's export potential. Many of these companies have some form of overseas association while others are Australian owned. 
The use of any agency by the Department of Trade and Industry will depend upon its ability to execute efficiently the specific project with which it is concerned, and that the expenditure of The Commonwealth funds involved will provide best results for the money spent. 
The Minister for Trade and Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Department of Trade and Industry has recently conducted a survey among a number of Australian firms to determine their altitude to the use of films for promoting their own products in overseas markets. 
The purpose of the survey was to ascertain which firms had already made such films, or would be prepared to make films for showing by Australian Government Trade Commissioners overseas. 
The survey showed that some firms had already made promotional films which could be used by Trade Commissioners. Other firms indicated interest in the Department's inquiries and some of these are currently investigating the feasibility of making films to help promote their products overseas. 
The Department  of  Trade and Industry offers Australian firms facilities  to  show their export promotional films  to  potential purchasers of their products in overseas markets. However, it is a decision for individual Australian firms, if they wish to use the facilities of the Trade Commissioner Service, to place contracts with companies to make films. 
The Prime Minister has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
and (2) The Australian Government deplores and condemns atrocities, no matter by whom committed. It notes and welcomes the fact that the United States Government has undertaken a full investigation of all aspects of recent allegations of the killing of civilians in Vietnam. While these investigations are proceeding it would not be appropriate for the Australian Government to make any further comment or seek to take any action. 
I am informed that no evidence has been found to suggest that any members of the Australian Force in Vietnam have ever been associated with atrocities of the nature alleged in the My Lai incident. 
Australian service personnel operating in a war zone do so under specific instructions and orders. 
In the case of the Army in preparation for operations, soldiers are made aware of the difficulties of identifying friend from enemy and special instruction, training courses and exercises are conducted to illustrate methods of identification. 
Standing instructions provide that persons are not to be engaged by fire unless: 
They are positively identified as enemy. 
They open fire first and are not obviously friendly. 
They fail to stop when challenged and are not obviously friendly. 
Where any doubt exists do not shoot. 
Stringent rules are similarly applied to naval and air operations in Vietnam. 
The Prime Minister has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1 am advised that the Singapore Prime Minister,  Mr Lee  Kuan Yew, has said that Singapore was prepared to have Soviet ships use Singapore port and dockyard repair facilities on a commercial basis. 
See my answer to Part (4). 
The Government is not aware that a base has been offered to the Russians. (4)I set out the Australian Government's attitude to the presence of the USSR in the Indian Ocean area in the House on 19th September 1969. (Hansard, page 1667). 
On that occasion I stated that we would regard the establishment of any Russian bases as being threatening to Australia, that we would regard a military presence by Russia to our north as being inimical to our interests and that we would not wish to see a collective security pact among the nations to our north in which Russia was taking a military part, though we would wish to see a collective security pact among the nations to curnorth, because that is one of our objectives. 
On 10th March in response to a question asked by  Senator Bishop  I undertook to obtain from the Minister for Defence some information relating to the findings of a joint Army/Defence Committee of Inquiry into the establishment of new Army installations on the Australian mainland. The Minister for Defence has now provided the following information: 
The joint Defence/Army examination into the question of additional accommodation that will be required by Army after Vietnam is not restricted to consideration of sites in Western Australia and Queensland. Regard will be paid to all the factors involved in siting a military installation in Australia including strategic considerations. national development, military feasibility, cost and so on. As to the question of ordnance depots,  an  overall study of the future requirements for and disposition of such depots throughout Australia is currently being undertaken within the Department of the Army. This will include consideration of the possible location of such a depot in South Australia. 
For the information of honourable senators I lay on the table texts of the undermentioned treaties to which Australia has become a party by signature: 
Exchange of Notes constituting an Agreement between the Government of the Commonwealth of Australia and the Government of the Republic of Indonesia, signed at Djakarta on 27th January 1970, extending the Trade Agreement between the Commonwealth of Australia and the Republic of Indonesia, signed at Djakarta on 27th December 1959. 
Agreement between the Government of the Commonwealth of Australia and the European Space Research Organisation for the Provision and Operation of Trials Facilities at Woomera for Launching of a Skylark Rocket in January/ February 1970. signed at Paris on 1 0th January 1970. 
Exchange of Notes constituting an Agreement between the Government of the Commonwealth of Australia and the Government of the United States of America, regarding the Importation of Meat into the United States of America, concluded at Washington on 29th-30th January 1970. 
Exchange of Notes constituting an Agreement concluded at Canberra on 25th March 1970 superseding the Agreement (as amended) relating to Space Vehicle Tracking and Communications Facilities, signed at Canberra on26th February 1960. 
I also lay on the table the text of a treaty to which Australia has become a party by acceptance, namely: 
Amendment to the Plant Protection Agreement for the South East Asia and Pacific Region, Rome, 30thOctober-3rd November 1967. Instrument of Acceptance deposited by Australia17th July 1969. 
I wish to move a motion in relation to the sittings ofthe Senate, andI ask leave to make a statement by way of explanation. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - There being no objection, leave is granted. 
Tomorrow, as is known, a Stale Funeral is being held tor the late  Senator McKellar,  and it is proposed to lift the Senate at 12 noon to enable honourable senators who wish to be present at the State funeral, which is to be held in Sydney during the afternoon, to be there. It is therefore proposed that we should sit tomorrow morning at 10 a.m., as against the normal starting time of 11 a.m., rise at 12 noon and reassemble tomorrow evening. I therefore move: 
That the Senate, at its rising today, adjourn until tomorrow at 10 a.m. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
by leave -  Mr Deputy President,  may I make a further explanation, by leave, about today's business of the Senate? 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - There being no objection, leave is granted. 
I understand that we are to proceed with the Dartmouth dam  legislation, for which 2 messages have been received in this chamber. The procedure that is suggested for the conduct of the legislation through this chamber is that the first Bill should be introduced and taken to the second reading stage and then the debate on it be made an order of the day for a later hour of the day. Then it is proposed that the second Bill should be introduced and taken to the second reading stage and the debate on it be made an order of the day for a later hour of the day. Then we will return to the first Bill and conduct a concurrent debate on that and the second Bill. 
The debate will proceed straight on. So that we can get the 2 Bills on to the slate, we have to adjourn the debate on the first Bill until a later hour of the day, introduce the second Bill and take it to the second reading stage and then have a concurrent debate on the 2 Bills. 
Discounting the flippancy at the end of the question and replying to the matters of substance, f point to the background of what was said here yesterday and what the Prime Minister said in another place to the effect that until the Minister for Defence returns to Australia and reports to the Government on his discussions in Washington with the Secretary of Defence and others, it is unreal to be making up hypothetical questions and expecting an answer of substance. 
Then the Press is making up hypothetical questions too. 
Yes, I have some information about what is known of the whereabouts of  Mr Francis  James. It is amongst all the papers that I have with me. I will locate it and inform the honourable senator before the end of question time. If I cannot obtain the information before the end of question time, with the indulgence of the Senate I will make the information available later in the morning. 
Fill AIRCRAFT 
I think it would be proper to obtain a comprehensive reply to the honourable senator's question. It is true, as he suggests, that there has been an increase in the home ownership interest rate. It is equally true that increased interest rates on money in savings banks have been announced. The honourable senator's reference to a limitation or ceiling of $4,000 is true, as I understand the position. He then went on to ask another series of questions which I believe should properly be answered by the Treasurer. If the honourable senator puts them on the notice paper I would hope to be able to give a reply to them when next we meet. I think it would be quite wrong for me to give at question time an answer on a matter that is in another portfolio. 
I have not seen the article referred to. I would want to see it. I certainly do not know of any proposals which are available to me to give to the Senate at this time. In the circumstances the proper thing for the honourable senator to do is to put his question on the notice paper. 
I am aware that stemming from the Premiers Conference a decentralisation committee was created and is now in existence,I am not aware of the substance of the committee's deliberations. I will have the question examined to see whether it would be a good thing at this time to have a report of the commiitee's activities tabled in the Senate. 
1 understand a statement has been issued to the effect that interest rates on home loans have lately been increased. The honourable senator refers to the exemption of primary industries from the recently increased bank interest rates. What he suggests in regard to home ownership would be a matter for Treasury consideration. 1 know of no proposal to grant special concessions to home buyers, although 1 do believe that it is intended that when interest rates are increased the period of repayment of these loans will be extended so that the impact of any increase will not be felt, in terms of actual money paid out, in each instalment period. But this does not answer the honourable senator's question. He asks that home buyers should be given concessional interest rates. 1 will put his question to the Treasury. lt is a policy matter and I can do no more than refer it. 
 I recognise that everybody will be most concerned at the dramatic circumstances relating to the return lo earth of the Apollo crew. The information which was handed to me a short lime ago is that at 9 o'clock this morning Ihe Apollo spacecraft was onethird of the way back from the moon and confidence has increased progressively that there will be a safe return to earth on Saturday morning at approximately 3 a.m., Australian eastern standard time. The spacecraft orbit is now suitable for a safe reentry at a time about 20 minutes different from the proposed time of orbit re-entry. This results from a correction in the course last evening. The critical angle of re-entry is about 7 degrees. On its present orbit the spacecraft will re-enter al about  6i  degrees, which is within safe limits. There has been concern about the consumables in the spacecraft - water, oxygen, power and so on - but the steps which have been taken to counter any problems have been successful. At this stage, provided no further problems arise, the margin for the consumables is quite comfortable and safe. A small mid-course correction is scheduled for about 2.30 p.m. today. This will invlove a 15-second burn of the lunar landing module engine, which has been used in all the maneouvres since the event which caused the present critical situation. 
I can indicate that in accordance with the normal procedures I have supplied to  Mr President  the names of the Government nominees for the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange. I understand that other leaders have supplied the names of their nominees. My understanding of the situation is that possibly today  Mr President  will announce the names to the Senate. 
I shall deal with the question. Any names appearing in a newspaper certainly were not supplied by me. J have no knowledge of the circumstances in which they were supplied to the Press.  Senator Marriott  raised a question as to the qualifications of honourable senators appointed to that Committee. I believe that this would be a matter for the judgment of the Parties and, to some extent, for the judgment of the person who accepted the responsibility of serving on the Committee. For my part - and I know this is the view of  Senator Marriott  and honourable senators on this side of the chamber - it would be singularly inappropriate for a person to sit on that Committee if he were a recognised operator or a dealer on the share market. But of course, it must be recognised that to buy shares is a normal business transaction. Everybody has the right to do that in the normal way. However, it would seem to me to be singularly inappropriate for a person classified as a dealer in shares to be a member of the Select Committee. 
1 offered a personal view and 1 do not have to justify it. I maintain my personal view. I was very careful to make a distinction between a person I termed a dealer and a person who buys shares. In the present speculative climate, I suppose the only people who do not buy shares are Ministers of State. In referring to a dealer, I am talking in terms of a trader. All I can say now to  Senator Wood  is that I have expressed a personal view. I am not dictating government policy. I do not think it is a matter of national importance to give an explanation of my personal view. 
I made it perfectly clear in my response that I knew of no circumstance in which it had become a matter of government policy. I made it equally clear that so far as I was concerned I was expressing a personal view. I thought 1 made it perfectly clear that I believed it was up to a person who chose to sit on the committee to make a personal judgment. Perhaps 1 was unwise to offer a personal view at question time but 1 am stuck with it and I still believe that. 
I was asked a question earlier, I think by  Senator Fitzgerald,  about  Mr Francis  James, a journalist who was last reported to be overseas.  Mr James  was last seen travelling by train from Canton to the Hong Kong border on 4th November 1969 but is not recorded as having entered Hong Kong. Current inquiries have failed to disclose any trace of  Mr James.  A formal request for information about his present whereabouts has been made to Chinese authorities by the British Charge d'Affaires in Peking, but no reply has been received. Information will continue to be sought through any channels which might lead to some definite information as to his whereabouts and well being. 
Earlier in question time I made known to the Senate my personal view. I do not want to add to it. I believe it is a matter within the judgment of the person concerned. 1 have my own personal view. J accept without reservation the point which was made by  Senator Murphy.I  believe that any honourable  Senator who  accepts the responsibility of membership of the Committee would act with propriety. It is for him or her to make a judgment as to whether any shareholding he or she may have should be indicated in some way at the Committee level itself. By stating my own personal view I have touched off a series of supplementary questions, which only goes to show that a person in my position has to be most careful about offering personal views. Nevertheless, I still hold to the view I expressed. 
F1ll AIRCRAFT 
We had a discussion on this issue last Thursday. I think it was. At that time the Senate chose to defer the matter until this Thursday. Let me say at the outset that I am conscious of the fact that under the provision which stales that action must be taken within 15 sitting days the Regulations and Ordinances Committee is running out of time for disallowance. As 1 understand the mathematics of the matter, the time would run out next Tuesday, which would be a sitting day. 1 want to make it clear that I am not unmindful of the almost cleft stick type of situation in which the Regulations and Ordinances Committee may well be. 
But, having said that, I revert to a comment made by  Senator Devitt  about seeing the wisdom of the situation. Let us have a look at the wisdom of the proposition that 1 arn putting to the Senate, lt is not new. 1. dealt with it in some substance last Thursday.  Senator Wood  and  Senator Davitt  have given the classic reasons for disallowance. I do not think we need to argue about them. They are based on whether action should be taken by legislative enactment or by regulation.  Senator Wood  and  Senator Devitt  consider that in this instance action should be taken by legislative enactment. I will not argue the substance of that beyond saying that the Department of Defence, the Attorney-General's Department and the draftsmen believe that there is no question of the validity of the regulations. Whether it is appropriate to take action in this instance by one means or the other is the subject of a decision of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee. The Government depends upon its legal advisers in its drafting procedures, and they do not think that there is any argument about the validity of what they have done. But the Regulations and Ordinances Committee and the Senate might well lake the view that they believe it should have been done by legislation. 
The Government recognises the implications in the motion for disallowance of the regulations, which has been moved by  Senator Wood,  and, as a result of my representations, the Government set about the task of introducing a Bill into the Parliament. It has drafted a Bill and it has introduced the Bill into the other place. I had hoped that the Bill would have passed through the other place and that it would have come to the Senate by way of a message and then, of course, it would have been a much simpler proposition. The Senate could have dealt with the Bill, the Committee would have achieved what it thought was the proper procedure, and we could have gone on our way rejoicing. But for a variety of reasons, over which we in this place have no control, the Bill has been delayed in the other place, and I will not dwell on the reasons for the procedural problems which have arisen. 

 Senator Devitt referred to the wisdom of the situation. What is the wisdom in disallowing the regulations today and possibly, on Tuesday next, passing a Bill which will do the filings which the Committee wants to do? That does not appear to me to be a very logical approach to the matter. I think we all recognise the fact it may well happen that we cannot deal with the Bill by Tuesday next, because we will not receive the message until Tuesday next, but there is no reason why the Bill will not come to the Senate. The important point 1 want to make is that when the Bill conies here, the Senate will have the right to look at the merits and substance of the Bill. If the Senate says: We do not think that the Bill meets the situation because it contains a provision which Will come into effect only when the Bill receives royal assent and we think thai is not immediate; therefore in the meantime the regulations are current', it is competent for the Senate to say: 'All right, we are going to amend the Bill. We are going to send it back to the other place with an amendment or, if it is an appropriation Bill, with a request.' I do not think that we do ourselves justice, and I do not think that we do justice to our status or to the status of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee when we start pinpricking about a matter on the basis of having won a victory in a matter of judgment, then hammer the point home in this way, knowing that the Senate, in its wisdom, can pass the Bill as soon as it is received here by way of a message. 
That is how I feel about the matter, and 1 think that we ought to give consideration to the proposition of not disallowing the regulations. Of course, if the Senate decides to disallow the regulations, well, I have to live with that decision, and in those circumstances 1 make this point, which is important: I know that there arc difficulties regarding the consideration of the Bill in another place, but if some members of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee have seen the Bill which has been introduced in the other place and if they have the feeling that it will not meet their basic objections, then for heaven's sake let us get those objections on the record, because lor i he last 24 hours I have been trying to obtain some indication of what might be considered to be difficulties in the Bill, lt seems lo me that perhaps some members of the Committee may have the feeling in their hearts and the thought at the back of their minds that the Bill will not be much good to them. If that is the position let us, with the indulgence of the Chair, have a debate in which members of the Committee can put down some of the reasons why they do not like the Bill. 
It is a document which has been circulated in the Parliament. The honourable senator can obtain a copy of it. I know that some members of the Committee have seen it. I would like io know the Opposition's attitude to the poposed legislation. It is important to mc to know that. I do not want to be faced with the prospect, when dealing wilh the Bill, of suddenly being confronted with amendments. 1 would like to know in advance what the amendments are likely to be. The Bill is not a political one. It may well be that some agreement could be arrived at in relation to proposed amendments. 
At this stage I cannot suggest any procedures. I have to seek the indulgence of the Chair. I speak in deference to you,  Mr Deputy President.  Somebody may say that the Bill would not be any good anyway. I know, and we all know, that one of the provisions of the Bill is that it will come not into effect when it receives the royal assent, lt will not come into effect immediately. Therefore the regulations will continue until such time as the Bill receives royal assent.  Senator Devitt  queried the validity of the allowances if the regulations are disallowed. That problem could be overcome by including in the proposed Bill a clause which makes retrospective provision for the appropriations under the regulations. That could ease the concern of some honourable senators. It would have the other effect, which is important, of tending to cover any hiatus between the time when the regulations are disallowed and when the Bill comes into operation. Other possibilities could be canvassed. 
At this point I appeal to the Senate to exercise its judgment. I do not want the Senate to divide on the matter. I want to capture the true spirit of the discussion. In the circumstances it would seem to me to be quite safe to adopt the approach that 1 suggest. The message about disallowance of regulations has gone home loud and clear. I do not think we should enforce the disallowance. We should await the Bill, which has been presented in the other place. It will come to us by message as soon as the other place has disposed of it. If the Bill was not acceptable to honourable senators opposite, they could propose amendments. I certainly would look at the Bill in the meantime to try to accommodate any possible amendments. 
The answer is yes. to the first question; no, to the second question. The third question relates to a matter of policy. 
Last week, in response to a question asked of me by, I think,  Senator Lillico,  I said thai there had been a sighting of ships in the Bass Strait area and also in the Great Australian Bight area. At that time I gave particulars of the information available. As 1 understand the honourable senator's question, he wants an answer with more precision in terms of area. I shall refer the matter to the Department and, if the information is available, 1 shall certainly make it available to the Senate. 
It is true, as. the honourable senator said at the commencement of her series of questions, that there is a high degree of dedication and cooperation in the Commonwealth Public Service. Of course, it is equally true that we live under a system in which we have State instrumentalities and Commonwealth instrumentalities, and sometimes it emerges that the boundary between the Commonwealth and State spheres is difficult to define. But I want to make it abundantly clear that the Prime Minister, above all people, has been most dedicated in his effort to make certain that representations made by members and senators are dealt with as expeditiously as possible. I do not make any secret of the fact that from time to time the signal has gone out from the Prime Minister on this very issue, that wherever possible there is to be expedition of the type of information which members and senators are seeking. 
In fairness I must point out that some honourable senators ask questions which involve a tremendous amount of work in order to obtain the answers, and whatever else a public servant may do he has to ensure that the answer which is given in this place is not inaccurate, because if it is inaccurate, he and the Minister are taken to task. So there must be. a high degree of accuracy in answers. Finally, honourable senators must realise that government is the biggest business in Australia. It is a tremendous business. There are certain limitations and restrictions that must be imposed at all times to ensure that complete accuracy and, in the ultimate, complete efficiency are achieved. 
The honourable senator asks for some statistical information in relation to the volume of peas imported into Australia from New Zealand within the framework of the New ZealandAustralia Free Trade Agreement. I will seek the information and make it available to him. I have not the precise information available at the moment. 
lt is true that at about midday today, Australian Eastern Standard Time,  President  Nixon of the United States of America made a statement to the effect that the United States will withdraw troops from Vietnam within the next 12 monhs. f understand that he referred to 150,000 troops. Ft is also my understanding - in answer to the remainder of the questions asked by the honourable senator and indeed to many of the statements that have been made - that the Prime Minister of Australia will make a statement in relation to this matter. J believe that he will make that statement tomorrow night. In saying that, 1 am relying on the response to a question in another place a short time ago by the Acting Prime - Minister. As to the statement that the Prime Minister will make, I am quite convinced that it will be completely consistent with statements that he has made on this subject already. 
I will look at the question to see whether I can do something to obtain an expeditious reply for the honourable senator. 
All  I  can say is that if chaotic conditions prevail, it will be the responsibility of the people who set about organising this proposed Moratorium. The second point is that Australia is a live and vital country with a tremendous economy, and it is completely unreal to suggest that because some people want to exercise their right to protest - within the law if you like - that right should take precedence of the management and conduct of the affairs of the nation. The suggestion that there shall be chaos and that there shall be a complete cessation of Australian industry is it seems to me, in keeping with the objectives of the Moratorium. 
My understanding of the matter is that consideration has been given and is being given to proposed alterations to the existing Parliament House. At present I am not in a position to say what will be the final result of those considerations. For that reason I suggest that the honourable senator put the question on the notice paper. There is no shadow of doubt that the present conditions under which honourable members and honourable senators operate and the present conditions of those who give service to senators and members, make for a very tight situation. There is no doubt that many members and senators find it difficult to fulfil their functions to their optimum capacity because of the lack of facilities. That is my answer to the generality of the question. As to matters of when and where, I understand that at present there is a good deal of Press speculation on the subject. My understanding is that the matter is still under consideration. 
1 am not aware of what the honourable gentleman refers to as a massacre nor arn 1 aware of what action, if any. has been taken about it from the point of view of representations from the Australian Government. As 1 understand it, the Minister for External Affairs returned to Australia today and, therefore my direct responsibilities as Acting Minister for External Affairs will revert to him. 1 suggest that the honourable senator put the question on notice and 1 will get an answer for him as quickly as 1 can. 
I think the honourable senator and the Senate will recognise that it would be singularly inappropriate for me to give answers to questions about the situation in Cambodia at a time when there is a somewhat changing scene in that area. 
I remind the honourable senator that at question time one does not give answers to questions relating to policy. I do not want to be crossexamined at question time either. The short answer is that one does not give answers to questions relating to policy matters at question time. After the honourable senator has been here a little longer he will realise that in the field of foreign affairs it would be disastrous to deal with the affairs of one's own country and of another country by way of question and answer at question time. The honourable senator is entitled to pose his question in the proper way to the Minister. Judgment can then be made on whether any information can be provided to him. But certainly there should not be an off the cuff approach to such matters al question time. 
I  have not had the advantage of access to the information which the honourable senator presumably has in his mind. 1 do not acknowledge as facts what he has put as the basis of his question. All  I  can say is that if the honourable senator places his question on the notice paper  I  shall obtain the facts for him. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
1 ) The highest offer of the many received was $173,600, following the calling of tenders both within Australia and overseas. This tender was accepted. 
Although the aircraft were not to be sold unless a reasonable offer was received, no reserve price as such was fixed. My Department was satisfied that the tenders received tested the market; that the price accepted was satisfactory having regard to that market: and that a higher offer could not be anticipated by deferring disposal action. 
The Minister for Defence has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
No Australian servicemen are known to have been taken prisoner of war in Vietnam. Two soldiers have been posted missing but they have since been presumed dead. 
The Geneva Convention relative to the treatment of prisoners of war to which Australia is a party makes provision for the repatriation of prisoners of war, especially those who are sick. North Vietnam deposited an instrument of accession (with reservations) to the Convention on 20th June 1957 but does not accept that the Convention applies to the conflict in Vietnam. Service pay and allotments remain in force while a member is a prisoner of war or missing and repatriation and similar benefits do not apply unless death occurs or is presumed. 
The Prime Minister has providedthe following answers to the honourable senator's question: 
Australia has accepted a Canadian proposal that there should be a meeting of Ministers from the major wheat exporting countries. This proposal followed an announcement of new arrangements to apply in Canada designed to bring about a reduction in Canadian wheat production. The purpose of the meeting is to review the world wheat situation. 
No. 
It is necessary to distinguish between malnutrition and starvation. In many developing countries the prevalence of malnutrition is a major cause of shorter life spans than those common in more advanced countries. It is certainly true that many people die from starvation; detailed statistics are not available. 
See Hansard 26th September 1969, page 1570. 
The Acting 
Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The gift provisions of the income tax law are reviewed from time to time. I have therefore arranged for the representation by the honourable member to be noted for consideration when they are next reviewed. 
On 12th March 1970  Senator Brown  asked me, as Minister representing the Prime Minister, whether 
I  was aware of rising unemployment in the manufacturing and servicing industries in the country towns of Victoria and what action would be taken in this regard. The Prime Minister has now provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The availahle statistics do nol land support lo the suggestion of the honourable senator that unemployment in manufacturing and servicing industries in country towns in Victoria has been rising. In fact, official statistics of the total number of persons registered for employment with the Commonwealth Employment  Service  in country areas suggest  that  unemployment in Victorian country towns has been falling in recent years. For example, al the end of March1970 there were 4,604 persons registered for employment outside the metropolitan area in Victoria, representing 1.2% of the estimated labour force, whereas at  end-March  1969 there  were  5,253 persons registered (or 1.4% of  the  labour force) and at end-March 1968 7,350 persons (or 2.0% of the labour force). At  the  same  time,  the number of unfilled vacancies in non-metropolitan districts in Victoria increased from 2,023 at end-March 1968 to 2.144 a year later and . 2,823 at end-March 1970. 
The Commonwealth Government appreciates the problems which can arisethrough lack of sufficient employment opportunities in country  areas and takes account of these problems, and of the need to promote employment opportunities in country areas. In forming its economic and general policies. 
The honourable senator is talking about matters of which I am not aware. The fact is that rules dealing with the affairs of a joint slock company, under the laws of our land, are prescribed in its articles of association. An analogy between the conduct of the affairs of a joint stock company and the industrial machinery of the Commonwealth of Australia is something that I am unable to accept. First of all, the industrial laws of Australia receive the admiration of probably every other country in the world. Secondly, the problem of the Colong Caves is a matter strictly within the responsibility of the Slate of New South Wales in which they are located. For that reason 1 cannot make any contribution or offer any suggestion to the honourable senator other than that he should make his representations to his local Slate member. 
As did practically everybody in the free world, I read the statement made by the  President  of the United States of America. I do not think it would be appropriate for me to make comments, judgments or interpretations of what he said. The Prime Minister of Australia will make a statement in the Commonwealth Parliament tonight. 
 I can give the assurance to the Senate and to the honourable senator that the proposed Vietnam Moratorium Campaign will have no effect upon Government policy. The Government accepts responsibility for its policy. Indeed, its policy is in the best interests of the Australian people. To that extent, therefore, its policy has no relation to the Moratorium 
Campaign which, I suggest, is not in the best interests of Australia because the Moratorium Campaign proposes to hold the Australian people to ransom for 3 days to express a point of view. 
 Senator Greenwood  has exercised his right, pursuant to the standing orders, to speak on the motion for the adjournment of the Senate.I would be the last person to wish to suggest that any honourable senator should not exercise such a right if he wants to place a specific matter before the Senate. J make that statement with particular reference to the honourable senators who sit on the opposite side of this chamber. As to the results achieved by any honourable senator in raising a matter during the adjournment debate, again I do not think this is a matter on which 1 should pass judgment. However. I may say that as 1 listened to what  Senator Greenwood  had to say in relation to the Moratorium Campaign, it seemed to me that the whole burden of his complaint was that the organisers of the Campaign were suggesting that people should disobey the law of the land. Regardless of what other responsibilities honourable senators have, they come here to make the laws and they all should do everything in their power to see that those laws are obeyed. Wherever an honourable senator sees what he believes to be an incitement to break the law he has a duty to disclose it. All power to him if he raises the issue in the Parliament which is the place to express his concern on behalf of the people. 
It will be recalled that when the Minister for Defence made his statement on the forward planning for defence purposes reference was made to a Service requirement for helicopters. He indicated in his statement what the requirement would probably be and also that in the handling of the order to fulfil the requirement of the Services we would have regard to the possibility of offset arrangements and Australian content. I am happy to say that representatives of the Boeing company were in my office last week during the sittings of the Senate. They discussed with us the possibilities of Australian content. At that point of time they had made an inspection of the Government Aircraft Factories and the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation factory, which is across the road at Fishermen's Bend. They offered to me, quite gratuitously, the comment that they believed that our capability was such that in their bid they would be able to offer quite a significant amount of Australian content. 
A couple of companies have been invited by my Department to bid. It has been made abundantly clear to them that in those bids we are looking for Australian content. At this point of time I cannot say any more, except that the period in which this is to be done is  6  months and a couple of months of that period have already expired. So, this is quite a significant matter which will have to be resolved within the foreseeable future. 
If the honourable senator puts his question on notice I will have it examined. 
I can only say that that is my understanding of the facts. I cannot document them right now because I do not have the papers in front of me. However it is my understanding that the kind of resolution mentioned by the honourable senator was carried at that meeting. 
1 understand that a whole series of invitations have been already issued to people representing certain groups and organisations. I am quite certain that the ex-service organisations and pensioner organisations will be properly represented. Indeed, honourable senators and members of the other place have been invited to attend also. 1 believe that there will be ample opportunity for all, regardless of whether they are attending the ceremony as a result of receiving an invitation or are going along in the normal way as citizens, to participate in the ceremony. One does nol have to sit in the front row to participate in a ceremony, particularly when the ceremony involves ex-service personnel. We all become a part of the ceremony. The people who march and the people who make their dedication are just as much a part of the ceremony as anybody who sits in the front row. I would say to the honourable senator that, although the invitations have been issued and accepted, I feel quite confident that duc regard has been paid to the point which he made. 
There has been quite an amount of comment in relation lo the proposed convening of a conference to discuss this matter. Honourable senators are no doubt aware that the Minister for External Affairs returned to Australia yesterday and is in the Parliament today. In the circumstances, 1 think it would bc far better if the honourable senator were to put his question on notice so that I can get a reply for him from the Minister for External Affairs. 
The Prime Minister has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Yes. I refer the honourable senator to the answer given by the Minister for External Affairs to a question without notice in the House of Representatives on 7 April 1970 (Hansard pp. 734-5). 
Radio-active fallout in Australia is monitored in two complementary programmes, both including Queensland and Tasmania in their coverage. One has continued twenty-four hours a day since 1957 and is devoted to the low levels of long lived isotopes in fallout, Strontium 90 and Caesium 137. The other programme is directed mainly at the shorter-lived radio-isotopes in fallout which may be of significance only in the few months during and immediately after a test series. This short term programme is instituted for particular series of tests for which fallout might reach Australia, such as those carried out by France in Polynesia in recent years. Results from these monitoring programmes are published in the scientific journals as soon as possible after the measurements are completed. The most recent publications were in the Australian Journal of Science of May and December 1969. 
The National Radiation Advisory Committee in its most recently published Report - that of March 1969  -  concluded that the fallout over Australia from the most recent series of French Nuclear Tests in the Pacific, like that from earlier French nuclear tests, was of no significance as a hazard to the health of the Australian population. 
by leave - Honourable senators will understand that in making this statement on behalf of the Prime Minister, when I use the first person singular pronoun it refers to the Prime Minister. 
Since 196S, Australian ground formations have been engaged with our allies in resisting armed attack on the Government of South Vietnam. Since that time, the question of whether Australian forces should have helped resist that attack has been debated in Australia. This Government, as previous governments, has approached this question in the spirit which was crystallised in one sentence by  Mr Calwell  when he was Leader of the Opposition. That sentence is: 
The overriding issue which this Parliament has to deal with at all times . . . must be judged by this one crucial test: What best promotes our national security, what best guarantees our national survival. 
The Government believes that judged on this standard, our engagement in Vietnam is right and that it does best promote our national security, and we believe that for these reasons. It is surely incontrovertible that in Vietnam aggression is taking place and is being resisted. It is surely incontrovertible that the war there is only being sustained because large numbers of troops from North Vietnam are constantly dispatched to invade and subjugate the South, and that if that troop flow stopped the war would stop. Resistance to such aggression does best promote our national security, because we must strive to ensure that history is not repeated and that invasion and aggression is not allowed to  be  successful. For if it is successful, then the short span of history through which many  of  us in this chamber have lived shows that once successful, it is repeated and repeated until it becomes insufferable and has to be stopped - but stopped at a cost in blood and treasure infinitely greater than would have been the case had it been stopped at its initiation. 
Surely something of what happened in the last generation can be taken as experience by the present one. We saw Fascist and Nazi aggression raging unchecked and subjecting one small country after another to conquest until it had to be stopped - at the cost of a world war - which need not have happened had the aggression been stopped at its beginning. I thought that these lessons, which, let us never forget are of more import to small nations than to large, had been learned. For some years after the close of that war, resolute action was taken to resist and defeat subversion in Malava. This took some  12  long years - years when civiliains were murdered by terrorists - when bands of guerillas with grenades and Sten guns sought to overthrow by force a government the people in Malaya wanted. Australians were there, with British and local forces, resisting that aggression. We were told - and the words are strikingly familiar today: 'Australians should not be in Malaya. The war will go on forever. It cannot be won.' But it was won. That aggression was not successful and Australia's national security was best promoted because of that lack of success. 
Then we saw aggression in Korea. We saw the people of the North sweep across the frontiers of the South in armed formations. Because the prevention of aggression, then, was the basic concept of the United Nations, we saw United Nations forcer moving to defeat that aggression. Australians were there. And the aggression was defeated. And Australian national security was best promoted because it was defeated. We saw, and the principle is the same, Malaysia threatened during the confrontation and armed incursions into Malaysian territory. Australia helped to repel this aggression. And our national interest was best served by this. And then we saw the pattern repeated in Vietnam. It is Communist aggression as was that in Korea and Malaya, but the source of the aggression - significant thought it may be - is not as significant as the fact that it was aggression. For the Government believes that if small nations are to survive and prosper, then the aggression from whatever source - whether it is inspired by Communism, Fascism or nationalism - must not be allowed to succeed. 
The one consistent thread of principle - that small nations are best rendered secure if other small nations are not allowed to be overrun - has distinguished our policy through the post war years. That is why we are in Vietnam - and that we should be there is a proposition supported by three of the significant political parties in Australia and opposed by one - the Labor Party. I put it to the House that Australian security is bound up with seeing that aggression does not succeed. I put it to the House that it is immoral to launch aggression but not immoral to resist it. A proposition which has been twisted and turned inside out by those who cry that this is an immoral war. So it is - but the immorality is in those who began it, who continue to invade, who will not negotiate for peace, who are bent on conquest and nothing but conquest. 
We have said that successful invasion of South Vietnam by the North would lead to further attempts at conquest in Laos, in Cambodia, and on the frontiers of Thailand. This was scouted and denied by those in the ranks of the Opposition who support the case of the invaders. 'But the history of recent days shows how dangerously wrong they were.  Sir, I  have thought it necessary to speak of this in discussing the latest decisions on our participation in Vietnam. It was and is right for us to help to stem aggression. It was and is in our national interest - and that of all small nations - for aggression to be defeated. It is in our interest to help to secure by negotiation peace with self-determination for the people of South Vietnam. And in the meanwhile, while the invader will not negotiate, it is right to help resist him. Against this background, I speak to the House of the Government's decision. 
Following a review of the progress in the situation in Vietnam which led to the earlier United States decisions to reduce the level of its forces by 115,000 by the middle of this month,  President  Nixon yesterday announced his decision to introduce a new and long range programme of United States troop reductions involving the withdrawal of 150,000 men over the next 12 months. On 16th December last I announced the Government's decision that when the military situation in Vietnam permitted a further substantial withdrawal of allied troops, then some Australian units would be included in the numbers scheduled for withdrawal. Since then we have, with South Vietnam and the other allies, continued to keep developments and prospects in Vietnam under close study. The Communist side maintains its intransigence and continues to set its face against a negotiated settlement. There is no progress to report as regards peace talks. 
As the  President,  has stated, there has been some overall decline in emeny force levels in South Vietnam in the last few months, though their actions in Laos and Cambodia give cause for concern. The development that gives encouragement is the progress in what has been called Vietnamisation' - the movement towards South Vietnamese self-reliance. We see one result of this in the progressive reduction of allied forces. But it must be understood that 'Vietnamisation' means much more than the assumption by South Vietnamese forces of a greater share of the combat burden. Behind it lies a massive programme of expanding and modernising those forces. And behind that again is the progressive assumption by South Vietnam of the responsibility for all aspects of the war - a war fought across the widest front, embracing a complexity of military, political, psychological, social and economic factors. In all these areas much still remains to be done by South Vietnam, assisted by its allies across a wide civil and military spectrum. Yet progress has been such that important qualitative changes are being made, and will continue to be made, in regard to the assistance required by and given to the Government of South Vietnam in pursuit of the objective shared over the years by that Government and its allies. 
I reiterate that that objective is to establish the circumstances in which South Vietnam can determine its own future without fear. There can be no thought, of abandoning that objective by a precipitate withdrawal of allied forces. But in continuing to give assistance to South Vietnam, our intention will be to take account of their own growing strength and to strike the most appropriate balance between an Australian military contribution and other forms of Australian assistance to Vietnam: We are mindful particularly that the process of Vietnamisation obtains no less in Phuoc Tuy than in other parts of Vietnam and that it is both desirable and feasible for Australia to undertake, as the circumstances permit, qualitative changes in the shape of our overall contribution towards the goal we have in Vietnam. 
Accordingly, I now announce that after consultation in recent weeks with the Governments of Vietnam and the United States, who understand and accept our approach, the Government has decided that one Australian infantry battalion and some supporting personnel will be withdrawn from South Vietnam. This reduction to our force in Vietnam will be effected by withdrawing, without replacement, the 8th Battalion, Royal Australian Regiment, which at present is scheduled to complete its tour of duty in November next. This will require a modification of the role at present played by our force - a modification made feasible by the forces of Vietnamisation and national acceptance of responsibility by the Vietnamese themselves in Phuoc Tuy. 
But let no-one say that because there is a modification of the role we play therefore we should play no role at all. Reducing our forces because the Vietnamese are able to assume more responsibility is one thing. Removing our forces before the Vietnamese are able to accept full responsibility for replacing them is quite another. 
The timing of the battalion's departure from Vietnam remains to be determined. It will be governed by general circumstances within the area in which Australian forces are operating and by the progress of Australian projects to assist the growth of greater capability in the South Vietnamese forces. Whether or not the battalion's departure may be brought forward from the November date will depend on developments in these fields. After the initial withdrawal, should the progress of pacification and Vietnamisation succeed as the  President  expects, then at some stage before the expiry of the 12-month period, we will consider phasing additional troops into the planned withdrawal. But the future situation is so uncertain that it is impossible to be more definite than this. In co-operation with the Government of South Vietnam, in pursuit of our basic objectives, we are actively examining further ways in which  we  can contribute to the growth in South Vietnamese self-reliance. 
Following consultations with the Vietnamese Government, we have decided to provide a number of small mobile Army teams, totalling some 130 men, to work with the regional and popular forces in Phuoc Tuy. The teams will have a liaison and training function and will operate on a pattern similar to that developed by some members of our existing Army Advisory Training Group, which will continue its work. We are also developing a further proposal that Australia will provide instructors and other assistance to a South Vietnamese training centre for junior leaders of the popular forces and regional forces planned for establishment on the site which will be vacated by the Australian battalion to be withdrawn from Vietnam. It is envisaged that courses at this centre, which would accommodate 400-500 students at a time, would give particular attention to instruction in methods of jungle warfare which have been developed by Australian forces. 
In addition, Cabinet will give urgent attention to the results of comprehensive studies now being made of other forms of assistance which might be offered to Vietnam.  Sir, I  am glad to be able to tell the House and the people of Australia that the situation has been reached when withdrawal of some Australian forces can be made. I will be yet happier when all Australian forces can be withdrawn provided that our object is not endangered. And I believe that history will show Australia was right not to stand idly by and refuse to lift a finger to help a small country attacked from without. 
Motion (by  Senator Anderson)  - by leave - proposed: 
That  the  Senate  take  note of  the statement. 
Debate (on motion by  SenatorWillesee)  adjourned. 
The Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
No. I would refer the honourable senator to the Treasurer's speech on ' interest rates on housing in the House on 12 March 1970. 
Dealing with the first part of the honourable senator's question, as he knows and as we all know, the question of the various grants that are made to organisations doing good work in the community is dealt with at Budget time and is considered in the context of the Budget proposals. Not only with surf life saving associations but also with many notable and worthwhile organisations there is a direct Commonwealth subvention. This matter will be dealt with in that context. As to the second part of the honourable senator's question in which he suggests that government and private life assurance companies should make some special concession for voluntary workers in the surf life saving associations who do such good work, I should have thought that that is a matter which does not come within the Commonwealth's jurisdiction or within an area where the Commonwealth could intervene, but rather would be one in which representations should be made by the associations directly to the companies concerned. 
In the first place the Leader of the Opposition would know, as we all know, that from time to time one gets extraordinary pieces of distorted information as to what is purported to have been said in party room conclaves. I really would have thought that with the experience which the Leader of the Opposition has of such stories that one reads, he would not have used that . as the basis for a subsequent question. If we are really going to be faced with questions in the national Parliament based on what one  reads about what is purported to have been said at party meetings - whether it is at meetings of our Party or of the Australian Labor Party or in fact of the Australian Democratic Labor Party - we are well on the way to complete abandonment of any really responsible work in this place. 
I am not aware that there is a delay, although I do not question what the honourable senator puts by way of a question. I shall have inquiries made to see what the situation is in relation to any delay. Of course, the demands upon the Government Printer are terrific, particularly during parliamentary sessions, but I gather that this is a problem which arose long before the current parliamentary session. I shall have inquiries made and let the honourable senator know the facts. 
Anything the Leader of the Opposition says in relation to what influences the policies of the Australian Labor Party- 
I do not know whether I am expected to answer  Senator Prowse's  question or the Leader of the Opposition's interruption. 
I think 1 will answer the question asked of me by  Senator Prowse.  I was about to say that what influences the Labor Party in the determination of its policies has always been a source of wonderment to me. 1 have some recollections of a statement made by the Leader of the Opposition to the effect that the Labor Party's policies are not necessarily influenced- 
I hasten to make the point that I said at the outset that I was responding to a question asked by  Senator Prowse  which referred to  Mr Whitlam  and therefore I did not think that it would be necessary for me to repeat to whom I was referring. I am replying in the context of the question which was asked of me. I was saying that I have some recollection of having read a statement by the Leader of the Opposition in the other place,  Mr Whitlam,  to the effect that the policy of his Party was not necessarily influenced by the demonstrations and so on which took place but was determined within the Party's own conclave and according to the judgment of its Leader and the wisdom of the Party's hierarchy. I acknowledge the point made by  Senator Prowse  in this respect. As to the other matter of substance, of the influence which a Moratorium demonstration or a series of processions or demonstrations within or outside the law may have, I point out that 1 made the point yesterday that all citizens have an obligation to obey the law and honourable senators and all members of the Parliament, above everyone else in Australia, have a solemn and sacred responsibility to ensure that they are not influenced by people who act outside the law and give no encouragement in any way whatsoever to people to act outside the laws of the land. 
To the best of my knowledge and belief it is not a fact that the Government has set up a committee. As to the other matters to which the honourable senator referred, I rather suspect that he too has been influenced by what he may have read of reported meetings of Party organisations. Coming to the matter of substance in relation to the Moratorium, 1 do not think there is any doubt in the minds of any of us here as to what the purpose of the Moratorium is. We all know what the word 'moratorium' means. We all know what would happen if, because of the proposed Moratorium, a tremendous metropolis, or in fact any city in Australia, were denied its proper functioning. Nobody can suggest that a proposal to march thousand: of people down Collins Street, Melbourne, at 5 o'clock in the afternoon has any other intention than to gum up the works and to bring the city completely to a standstill. That is clearly part of the intention of the Moratorium, to try to make a political point. Everybody has the right within the law to make a peaceful demonstration for what he believes in and that has never been in question. What is in question is the fact that certain people and certain organisations are openly and obviously inciting people to break the law in order to achieve their basic objective. As soon as they set about doing that they destroy themselves and, in fact, they destroy the objectives which presumably they are setting out to achieve. 
The Minister for Trade and Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
I am informed that the Queensland market continues to be served by ACF and Shirieys Ltd, a subsidiary of I.C.I.A.N.Z. In parts of northern New South Wales the market is served both by ACF and Shirieys Ltd and Australian Fertilizers Ltd. The latter company is an I.C.I.A.N.Z. subsidiary based in New South Wales. There has not been any change in this situation and these areas are supplied with a full range of fertilisers by these two companies. 
Latein 1968 following imports of urea at dumped prices, there were sales of urea in Queensland at around $60 per ton. It is understood that present prices for cash ex capital cities is $79 ton which is about the level of the price ruling earlier in 1968. The price at outside capital cities could be higher because of freight costs. 
No public recordedstatistics of exports of fertilisers by individual companies can be provided. Total exports from Queensland of all manufactured fertilisers amounted to only $2,169, for the first seven months of 1969-70. 
The Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Governor of the Reserve Bank, in a statement on 2 April 1970, announced a selective exemption of rural borrowers from the increase in trading bank lending rates of interest which was the subject of an announcement by the Governor on 6 March 1970. 
No. Discussions with the trading banks, which were referred to by the Governor in his statement, took place during March and the outcome was confirmed to the banks on 26 March. 
The detailed administration of the exemption is a matter for the banks. 
On 21st April  Senator Lacey,  asked me the following question: 
Will the Minister inform the Senate on the quantity of peas landed in Australia during the past 12 months under the terms of the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement? 
I have to inform the honourable senator that imports from New Zealand of peas covered by Schedule A of the New ZealandAustralia Free Trade Agreement and for which figures are available, during the 12 months ended February 1970 totalled 4,781,785 lb. 
I move: 
That orders of the day Nos. I and 2 be deferred until after consideration of order of the day No. 3. 
In so moving I explain that I was informed a few moments before the sitting began this morning that  Senator Poke,  who is leading for the Opposition on the Homes Savings Grant Bill, has been paired as from 1 1 a.m. In those circumstances it would be very difficult to continue with  the  debate, although I am most anxious to  get  on with the debate on that Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I regard  that  question as the product of a distorted sense of humour and, to be frank, I do  not  think it rates an answer from the Treasurer's representative in the Senate. 
by leave -I wish to inform the Senate that the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  left Australia on 26th April to visit Japan and Canada. In Japan he met leaders of the wool textile industry and in Ottawa he is attending the ministerial meeting of the International Grains Arrangement Conference.  Mr Anthony  is expected to return to Australia on 10th May. During his absence the Minister for the interior  (Mr Nixon)  is acting as Minister for Primary Industry. 1 also wish to inform the Senate that the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  will leave Australia this evening for a brief visit to Japan to take part in Australia's national day at Expo 70.  Mr Gorton  is expected to return to Australia on 10th May. The  Deputy  Prime Minister and Minister for Trade andIndustry  (Mr McEwen)  will be Acting Prime Minister during the Prime Minister's absence. 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That, unless otherwise ordered, the days and times of meeting of the Senate for the period from 6th May until the end of the present period of sittings be as follows: 
Tuesdays - 2.30 p.m. until 6 p.m. 8 p.m. until 11 p.m. 
Wednesdays - 2.30 p.m. until 6 p.m. 8 p.m. until 11 p.m. 
Thursdays - 10 a.m. until 1 p.m. 2 p.m. until 6 p.m. 8 p.m. until 1 1 p.m. 
That, unless otherwise ordered, the Sessional Order relating to the adjournment of the Senate have effect at 11 p.m. each day. 
by leave - I wish to make a statement on behalf of the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton).  Honourable senators will understand that when 1 use the first person singular personal pronoun it refers to the Prime Minister. The statement reads: I am pleased to announce that the Premier of Queensland and I have agreed on the details of establishing Commonwealth and State Royal Commissions to inquire into the risk of damage to the Great Barrier Reef from drilling for petroleum. The Royal Commissions have been established under the Commonwealth's Royal Commissions Act 1902-1966 and the Queensland Commissions of Inquiry Acts 1950 to 1954. The 
Commissioners and the terms of reference will be identical for each Royal Commission. The Commissioners are: 
I recall the questions and I recall the answers that were given in relation to the sighting of Russian vessels or what were thought to be Russian vessels in the Bass Strait area. 
Yes, they were. 1 have taken note of the supplementary question and 1 will have investigations made immediately in the hope that I will be able to give some constructive answer, perhaps tomorrow, in relation to the matter. 
Let me deal with the last part of the honourable senator's question first. As he knows and as the Senate knows, Commonwealth expenditure is on a budgetary basis and is budgeted for in advance of such spending. So I suggest to him and to the Senate that any inflationary tendencies that may be in existence are not things that have suddenly been created as a result of governmental expenditure, whether it be State or Federal. As to the question of linking the recently announced increase in interest rates with the economy, as I said here some considerable time ago the use of interest rates is a traditional and well recognised economic procedure in relation to any adjustments that may be necessary in the economy. 
I do not think question time lends itself to a full scale discussion of the type of question the honourable senator has posed; but some other occasion - for instance, we will be dealing with supplementary appropriation Bills within the next fortnight, I hope - would provide an ideal opportunity for him to pose the question he has just asked, and 1 will then give him an answer in some depth. I am sure that he will be completely convinced when I have finished. 
The Prime Minister has indicated in another place that he proposes to make a statement later today on this matter. For that reason it would be quite inappropriate for me to answer questions on this subject in advance. 
I will obtain the maximum information 1 can, as I said in reply to  Senator Lillico,  and it will relate also to  Senator Davidson's  supplemental question. In the last few minutes 1 have been informed that the sighting of a suspected foreign trawler off Cape Patton by fishermen on Thursday, 30th April was not reported to the fisheries authorities until Monday, 4th May, when Victorian fishermen were requested to report by radio any further sightings. To date no sightings have been reported positively identifying the vessel as a foreign fishing boat or furnishing information to suggest that the vessel is still in the area. That is the information 1 have at this moment. I will try to obtain more up to date information for the Senate. 
I can indicate to the honourable senator the information made available to me, which is that that is not a matter solely for Commonwealth initiative. It involves both Commonwealth and State interests. On the one hand the Commonwealth wishes to acquire land at Holsworthy and at Lucas Heights for its own purposes. On the other hand the Government of New South Wales has requested the Commonwealth to vacate large areas of land now held on the foreshores of Sydney Harbour for defence and other purposes to enable it to set up a national park. These are matters requiring careful consideration and negotiation. Various departmental interests are involved. But it is hoped that it will be possible to reach a basis for a mutually satisfactory arrangement with the States at an early date. 
I mentioned earlier that we could anticipate that a statement would be made by ihe Prime Minister in relation to Cambodia and that I would make the statement in this place immediately it became available to me. I presume that the debate on the matter of urgency which is listed on the Notice Paper will precede my statement on Cambodia, but as soon as I have an opportunity under the forms of the Senate I shall put the statement down in this place. I am not in a position to say at what time that will be. but I shall make the statement at the first opportunity available to me. Until then I do not think I should be answering questions about the matters concerned in the statement. 
The Leader of the Opposition has invited me to make a statement regarding the economy at question time, but I am a bit reluctant to set about to do so. As I indicated earlier, there will be opportunities to discuss the economy, particularly when we are dealing with the Appropriation Bills. But I think it has to be recognised that we in Australia probably are enjoying greater prosperity than that enjoyed in any other country in the free world. I think it would be equally true to say that we in Australia are enjoying a state of full employment; in fact there is a tendency towards over-full employment. It is equally true to say that the Australian people probably have more money in their savings bank accounts than Australians have ever had before. It is also true to say that there are available to the Australian people consumer goods the like of which are to be found in no other country and which are available at prices which are comparable with those applying in other countries. 
All these things have been brought about by good government and by good husbandry by the Treasurer who was the recipient of a barb from the Leader of the Opposition a few short moments ago. It is because we on our side of politics, who have the responsibility to govern, wish to preserve those things mat I have mentioned, that from time to time we have to look at the economy and make adjustments. It is because we want to preserve those things for the people - the working people, the trade unionists, politicians and everybody in Australia - that we do the things which we are doing in relation to Australia's fiscal policy. 
 I am not aware of the current position in Tasmania. I do not know whether there is any lag in housing construction. That matter would be within the responsibility of the Tasmanian Government under the Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement. Interest rates should not be taken in isolation. One group should not be selected as a basis for saying that throughout the economy there is a variation in interest rates. 
A question has been asked. The honourable senator should wait for the answer. Primary industries have had a differential interest rale for a considerable time, and those industries were dealt with on that basis.  Senator O'Byrne  dealt with the matter in isolation. He singled out one group as being hurt or injured. That is not true. The interest rate should be considered in the light of the whole economy. As I said in response to  Senator Murphy's  question, the interest: rate is an instrument of management in dealing with the economy. I do not think we should argue this matter now. Question time is not the time to discuss it because we tend not to have a straight debate. We have a series of questions - loaded questions sometimes - and a series of interjections when Ministers are trying to answer. The proper time to deal with this matter will be when we are debating the Appropriation Bill which. I think, will be in the next 2 weeks of the sittings. 
The Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
and (2) The Government has reason to believe that some financial interests in Australia are seeking to lake advantage of the taxation status enjoyed by persons who qualify as residents of Norfolk Island. It was never intended, of course, that the taxation status of residents of the Island should be used as a means of avoiding Australian tax. lt remains to be seen, however, whether the schemes which are being employed by some interests will be effective in achieving their objectives. The Commissioner of Taxation is conducting a thorough investigation of the schemes and taking whatever action is appropriate under the existing provisions of the law. It is not possible al this stage to indicate what action the Government might take in his matter. 
The Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Commonwealth Banking Corporation has provided the following information - 
The interest rates now being applied by the Commonwealth Savings Bank to new housing loans are - 

<graphic href="943232197005055_11_1.jpg"></graphic>

Yes. 
Deposit interest rates paid by the Commonweatlh Savings Bank since 1st April 1970 are - 

<graphic href="943232197005055_11_2.jpg"></graphic>

The rate of interest was not increased on balances up to $4,000 deposited in ordinary savings accounts. 
The interest rates quoted in the answer to part (1) will apply to housing loans by the Commonwealth Savings Bank irrespective of the amount of balances held by borrowers in savings accounts with the bank. 
by leave - The statement I am about to make was put down in the other place by the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  earlier this afternoon. Honourable senators will understand that when I use the first person singular pronoun it refers to the Prime Minister. The statement reads: 
Honourable members are aware that the State of Queensland has been affected by serious drought conditions for several years. They will also be aware that the Commonwealth has been providing substantial drought relief assistance. Under present arrangements, the Commonwealth has agreed for 1969-70 to meet on a dollar for dollar basis expenditure on eligible drought relief measures up to $4m and to meet the full cost in excess of $4m, and it is currently estimated that the Commonwealth will need to provide some$15m under these arrangements in 1969-70. That would bring total Commonwealth drought relief assistance to Queensland since 1965-66 to over $32m. 
Honourable members will also know that the Premier of Queensland recently proposed certain modifications of existing relief measures. Following Cabinet consideration of the Premier's proposals, I have now informed the Premier that the Commonwealth is prepared to reimburse the State for carryon and re-stocking loans made to graziers to enable Queensland to extend the existing limits. 
The Commonwealth has always adopted the flexible attitude to the limits on drought loans. Our main concern has been that normal commercial sources of finance should first be exhausted and that in making a loan the State authorities should satisfy themselves that the applicant has a reasonable chance of recovery. It will be for the State to determine the new limits, and the rate of monthly payments of loans, in the light of the circumstances of individual graziers. 
I have also informed the Premier that the Commonwealth is agreeable to his proposal for graziers who have received drought relief carry-on or re-stocking loans under the 1969 drought relief arrangements to have their loans, including any unpaid sums under the earlier 1965 arrangements, consolidated as at 30th June 1970. I understand that the State's objective is to give further relief to graziers by extending the period during which interest will be capitalised and no redemption payments will be required. 
The Commonwealth has also agreed that rebates on the transport of stock for restocking purposes, which at present apply only to breeding stock, should be extended to cover all stock transported for restocking up to a property's normal capacity - whether this involves stock purchased or stock returning from agistment - provided that the stock are held for a minimum period on the grazier's property before being eligible for rebate. In addition, because of the widespread effects of the drought on Queensland pastoral areas and the fact that New South Wales could be a major source of stock for re-stocking when the drought is over, the Commonwealth has indicated its willingness to reimburse the Queensland Government for expenditure on freight rebates on stock purchases in New South Wales for re-stocking and on stock returning from agistment in that State. 
The existing measures provide for additional carry-on loans to assist drought affected graziers with the payment of crown rentals and local authority rates in 1969-70. We have now agreed to further assistance in this regard in the form of grants to the State to enable it to meet half the cost of rates payable in 1970 by graziers who have experienced drought for more than 2 years in the 2 droughts of 1965-67 and 1969-70 and who are demonstrably in need of such assistance. 
Even before allowing for the additional cost in 1969-70 of the agreed extensions to drought relief measures to which I have referred, the Commonwealth contribution towards drought relief measures in Queensland this year would be easily the largest amount ever provided to any State for drought relief in a single year. The Government believes that the additional measures which I have now announced will make a further substantial contribution to the relief of those farmers and graziers in Queensland who continue to be afflicted by drought. 
Motion (by  Senator Anderson)  - by leave - agreed to: 
That the Senate take note of the statement. 
The Minister for Trade and Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Following approaches by union representatives to me in relation to the possibility of increased import competition in the railway rolling stock industry, a review of the situation was commenced. One aspect of this was the possibility of programming future orders within Australia on a more regular basis, and this examination is in hand. 
The railway rolling  stock  manufacturers have recently initiated consultations with the Department  of  Trade and Industry regarding what action might be open under the machinery available for the protection of Australian industry. These consultations are still proceeding. - 
I am not in a position to comment on employment prospects in any particular sector of industry. Recent figures, however, indicate that unemployment in Australia is at a very low level and job vacancies are at a comparatively high level. It is the confident expectation of the Government that the favourable employment situation which has been in evidence in Australia for many years, will continue in the future. 
The Prime Minister has provided the following answers to the honourable senator's questions: 
No. The  Chairman  of the Australian Council for the Arts,  Dr H.  C. Coombs, has informed me that in a discussion with the A.C.T.U. Executive, he expressed the Council's interest in co-operating with Trade Unions to involve their members in arts activities. This is in accordance with the Australian Council's objective of attracting new audiences for the arts. Such programmes receive support from Government cultural agencies in other countries including the United States of America, United Kingdom and West Germany. 
The Australian Council has advertised for applications for grams in a wide range of activities in the arts, lt expects to receive some applications from trade unions seeking assistance for work in this field. In November 1969, an amount of S480 was paid to the Australian Engineering Union for the Australian performing group at 'La Mama' to perform a series of lunch-hour theatre pieces in factory environments. This amount was not paid directly by the Australian Council for the Arts but by the Melbourne Theatre Company from Special Projects grants totalling $35,000 made last yeal by the Council to the Company to provide the services of professional theatre personnel to drama groups throughout the southern States. 
Any programme submitted by the A.C.T.U. or individual unions would receive consideration on the same basis as applications from other organisations. The criteria would include such factors as probable artistic standards, cultural interest of the project submitted, and the range of people who would thereby have an opportunity to participate m and enjoy the arts concerned. 
See answers to (2) and (3). 
 The Public Service Board has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
and (2) On 27th February 1970 the Public Service Board informed the Association of Architects, Engineers, Surveyors and Draughtsmen that its claim for pay increases for technical personnel based on the 6.6% pay increase earlier granted to physical grades had been rejected. 
The Public Service Board has now reviewed the pay rates applying to sub-professional structures in the Commonwealth Service. Following receipt of pay claims by the relevant staff associations, the Board has offered increases of 9%, with prospective effect, for the existing sub-professional structures for Draughtsmen and Technical Officers. The Board's conclusions on pay rates for these sub-professional structures follow a review of all relevant circumstances, with particular emphasis on a re-assessment of work value against the firm policy desire of the Board to foster and develop the sub-professional area. The Association of Architects, Engineers, Surveyors and Draughtsmen has accepted the new pay rates which will be implemented by  a  full consent determination. 
The Minister for External Affairs has furnished the following reply: 
As a sovereign independent country Japan possesses the right to amend its Constitution in accordance with procedures provided for in the Constitution. Article 5 of Chapter III of the Treaty of Peace with Japan signed at San Francisco on 8th September, 1951 stated that the Allied Powers recognise that Japan, as a sovereign nation, possesses the inherent right of individual or collective self-defence referred to in Article 51 of the Charter of the United Nations. 
and (3) The Governments of Pakistan, the Republic of Indonesia, the Republic of Viet-Nam and Cambodia were established in accordance with constitutional processes. Though some military or former military personnel are serving in each of them, civilian personnel are also included. 
 The Minister for Trade and Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Australia accepts and abides by the resolutions of the United Nations Security Council which impose sanctions against the illegal regime in Rhodesia and will continue to regulate import and export trade in accordance with them. 
Security Council Resolution 253 (May1968) provides for certain exceptions to an export embargo including the exemption of foodstuffs from sanctions in special humanitarian circumstances. Australian wheat sales comply with this provision. 
The Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The income tax law provides for a deduction of one-third of the amount of calls on shares paid by a person to a company carrying on as its principal business afforestation in Australia or the Territory of Papua and New Guinea. The deduction is not, however, available in respect of calls paid on redeemable shares. 
The deduction is allowable under the provisions of section 77c of the Income Tax Assessment Act, or, where the shares in respect of which the calls are paid were issued or agreed to be issued before 10 May 1968, under the similar provisions of section 78 (l.)(b) of that Act. 
On 4th and 19th March,  Senator Webster  asked me questions concerning the rates of interest charged by trading banks on loans to primary producers. In particular, he asked in effect whether arrangements could be made for loans to primary producers to be exempted from the application of the recent increase in maximum trading bank overdraft interest rates. I indicated that I would refer the matter to the Treasurer. The Treasurer has now provided me with the following information: 
Following the increase of 0.5% in maximum trading bank lending rates of interest, which was announced by the Reserve Bank of Australia on 6th March 1970, the Prime Minister, the  Deputy  Prime Minister and the Treasurer consulted the Governor of the Reserve Bank on 16th March 1970 about the impact of the higher interest rates on rural producers. The Ministers stated the Government's view that, having regard to the special difficulties suffered by a number of rural industries at present, and the financial problems facing many rural producers, it would not be appropriate that there should be a general increase in trading bank lending rates on loans to rural producers. 
The matter was subsequently reviewed by the Reserve Bank, and the Governor of the Reserve Bank thereafter discussed it with the trading banks. 
On 2nd April 1970, the Governor of the Reserve Bank announced a modification of the recent increase in maximum trading bank lending rates of interest. In announcing this, the Governor stated: 
It has been decided that in present circumstances the banks will apply a selective exemption of rural borrowers from the increase. The objective will be to avoid adding to the cost of servicing bank borrowings by rural producers who are now in a depressed situation. It is not intended that the exemption will be extended, for example, to individuals or companies whose main business is not farming or to borrowings by rural producers to finance new property purchases or new expenditure not related to rural production. 
On 12th March 1970  Senator Marriott  asked me a question concerning the road toll. I indicated I would refer the matter to the Bureau of Census and Statistics. The Treasurer has now provided me with the following information: 
The Acting Commonwealth Statistician advises that statistics giving information of the predominant causes of road traffic accidents are not published by him for Australia as a whole. Determinations of the predominant causes of road  traffic  accidents are made in several States but. because there are normally a number of contributing factors each of which could be considered a 'cause', the allocation of a 'predominant cause' has to be the subjective judgment of the police officers completing the accident report form. Thus, there is no consistent classification between areas. However, in those States where predominant causes are allocated, statistics are published by the  Deputy  Commonwealth Statistician and the figures to which the honourable  Senator refers  were probably those for Tasmania for the 3 months ended 31st December 1969 issued on 11th March 1970 by the Hobart Office of the Bureau. Other than from an investigation carried out in one State some years ago, the Acting Statistician is not aware of any figures available in Australia linking speed with either alcohol or drug ingestion. However, there is information for one State showing the blood-alcohol levels of some persons killed in road traffic accidents. 
On 18th March 1970,  Senator Laucke  asked me a question concerning the proposed Army logistics cargo ship and the Whyalla Shipbuilding and Engineering Works. The Minister for Shipping and Transport has now provided the following information: 
The proposed building of an Army logistics cargo ship will be a most useful order for the Australian shipbuilding industry. 
The present order position of the Whyalla shipyard is more favourable than that of any of the other Australian shipyards recognised for shipbuilding subsidy purposes. 
In placing orders with shipyards, the Commonwealth has regard to the competitiveness of tenders and does not give preference to any particular yard. 
The Minister for Trade and Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senators question: 
It is a fact that reports relating to the manufacture of synthetic meal from soybeans and petroleum derivatives have been widely published during the past 2 years. These reports illustrate that synthetic meat can be manufactured as substitute beef steaks, chicken, bacon, ham and various kinds of seafood, in either canned, frozen or dried condition. Patent rights covering the manufacturing processes for these products are held in a number of countries. 
The Commonwealth Government has no power to ban the production in Australia of synthetic meat. Any proposal to ban the manufacture of these products would be for consideration by die State Governments. 
Regarding the possibility of imposing a ban on the importation of synthetic meat, the government has procedures for considering measures to prevent local industries from being damaged by competition from imports. It would, of course, be a matter of great concern if there was a threat of damage to the Australian meat industry, lt would be necessary, however, to have evidence of the damage or threat of damage before consideration could be given to measures to protect local production. 
On 15th April,  Senator Lillico  asked me the following question: 
Has the Leader of the Government in the Senate any further information concerning the encroachment of Russian fishing ships in Tasmanian waters? ls he aware that it has been established that these ships were well within the 12-mile limit and were using fishing grounds frequently used by Tasmanian fishermen based at Stanley. Have any representations been made to Soviet authorities, or to whomever is responsible regarding this matter. 
I undertook to find out for the honourable senator whether we had any more information on these fishing vessels and in the light of that give him a definite reply. We have no more information on the Russian fishing vessels than that given in my first reply. When the reports were received claiming that Russian fishing vessels were fishing within the 12-mile limit, immediate steps were taken to check the information. It was found that the vessels were outside the 12- mile fishing zone. In the absence of any further sightings, we have concluded that the vessels have sailed away from the coast. In these circumstances, and as the vessels were at no stage established to be within the 1 2-mile declared fishing zone, any representations to the Soviet authorities would be inappropriate. 
On 16th April  Senator Webster  asked me whether the aim in establishing the Commonwealth/ State Officials' Committee on Decentralisation was that Governments throughout Australia, particularly the Commonwealth Government, be encouraged to further assist the decentralisation of industry and the Australian population, and whether a report of the Committee's activities and findings would be presented to the Senate. 
The Commonwealth/ State Officials' Committee on Decentralisation was established to undertake a joint pooling of knowledge about and study of the many issues involved. The Committee has had instituted a wide range of studies, not all of which have been completed, lt is anticipated that when the individual studies being coordinated by the Committee have been completed the Committee will, after an examination of them, prepare its report. As the work of the Committee is a State as well as Commonwealth exercise, the question of tabling the report in the Commonwealth Parliament will be decided after the Commonwealth and State Governments have considered the report of the Committee. 
by leave  -  I wish to make a statement on behalf of the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton).  Honourable senators will understand that when 1 use the first person singular personal pronoun it refers to the Prime Minister. The statement reads: For some years North Vietnamese regular forces, and other forces controlled by North Vietnam, have been withdrawing across the Cambodian border after battles in South Vietnam. The North Vietnamese have built, in Cambodia, base camps in which their forces could rest, refit, regroup, and be prepared for further military action against allied troops in South Vietnam. This military disadvantage was endured with great forbearance by United States and South Vietnamese forces - for even though the neutrality of Cambodia was being violated by the Communists, the allies continued to hope that the protests of the Cambodian Government might lead to a cessation of the North Vietnamese invasion. This was a vain hope and since the displacement of the Sihanouk Government by the Lon Nol Government in Cambodia, North Vietnamese and forces controlled by them have extended and expanded their invasion of Cambodia's neutrality. 
There has been a gradually increasing violation of Cambodian neutrality - a violation which was grossly wrong in itself - which was carried out by a nation which had signed the Geneva Agreement to respect Cambodia's neutrality - and which increasingly gave a military advantage to the enemy and posed growing military danger to allied forces in South Vietnam. The North Vietnamese have extended westward from the bases they had been occupying. They have attacked, in Cambodia, administration centres, communications and populated areas in Eastern and South Eastern Cambodia. And along with this increasingly cynical and increasingly overt invasion, they have taken steps designed to create a zone in Cambodia, occupied by them, along virtually the entire length of the South Vietnamese border with Cambodia. As President Nixon pointed out, they have embarked on a programme to make Cambodia a vast enemy staging area, and a springboard for attacks on South Vietnam along 600 miles of frontier. 
They have in fact begun a wider invasion, and embarked on a course which poses greater military dangers to allied forces. This new military threat, increased in gravity, has led to South Vietnamese and United States forces taking action to protect themselves by crossing the border into Cambodian territory occupied by the North Vietnamese. The decision, reached by the  President  of the United States, was taken on operational military grounds and was designed to protect the lives of allied servicement. Those who ' condemn this decision, as the Government does not, must either argue that there has not been an increased threat to allied forces as a result of North Vietnamese action - which is scarcely arguable - or must hold that it does not matter whether there has been an increased threat or not - that allied forces should be left in greater danger from the flank and should not try to prevent that danger. We do not accept this. 
Our own Australian forces are not engaged in this operation and I see no prospect that they will be. But the effect of the operation could well be to make all allied forces in South Vietnam, including our own, more safe. Our own objective for Cambodia is known. We wish to see a neutral Cambodia - a country which is not used by anyone as a base or a battleground, a country which enjoys in truth that freedom from interference, that real neutrality which it was guaranteed under the Geneva Agreement. We will try by diplomatic means to bring this about - and to bring about a method of international inspection designed to ensure that respect for the neutrality of Cambodia is real - and is continuing. 
But let me make this clear. We do seek a Cambodia whose neutrality is respected in fact and in truth. We do not seek a Cambodia which is called neutral but which is occupied in greater or lesser part by North Vietnam. For this would be a continuance of the pretence which has prevailed.. It would not mean that the neutrality of Cambodia was real. And it would mean that South Vietnam was endangered. 
In the Government's view this is the situation. The neutrality of Cambodia has been consistently and progressively violated by North Vietnam. The increasing tempo of the violation has posed an increasingly grave military threat to the lives of allied servicemen. It has also, by widening and escalating the war, threatened to prolong it, and to delay Vietnamisation. 
The action taken by the United States and South Vietnam was action to protect the servicemen against attack by an enemy which was increasingly occupying a neutral nation. We understand the reason for their action and we find it odd that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  should, on behalf of his Party, viciously criticise it. It is worth noting that not one member of the Opposition, at any time, has criticised the violation of Cambodian neutrality during the last 5 years by the North Vietnamese. There have been no claims that these Communist actions were 'fatefully widening the war' or that their increasing invasion ought to be condemned. There were no fulminations against this violation of neutrality. These were Communist actions and immune to criticism from the Opposition. But now that counter action has occurred, our allies are criticised - they have widened the war, they have engaged in escalation - they are in the wrong. 

 Sir, such comments are support for the theory that Communist forces should be allowed to operate as and when they like; should be excused for invading and occupying neutral countries; and that it is wrong to take action to stop them. By giving that support they show a willingness, even a desire, to accept defeat or surrender of allied forces in South Vietnam. 
I can understand - though strongly disagree with - those who wish to surrender in Vietnam, and abandon the South Vietnamese and let aggression succeed. But I cannot understand those who, while the struggle continues, are prepared to subject allied forces to grave military threat - to endanger soldiers' lives in action. We reject this attitude. We will continue to work for a truly neutral Cambodia by all means we can. But we will not excuse our enemies end  attack  our allies  in our joint  endeavours to bring peace and self-government to South Vietnam. 
I move: 
That the Senate take note of the statement. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Willesee)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now  read a  second time. 
This Bill will fulfil the Government's undertaking to assist the Australian film industry. It provides for the establishment of an Australian Film Development Corporation which will administer a fund with an initial capital of $lm. The Corporation will make loans to film and television producers. It will be able to guarantee repayment of loans - including bank overdrafts - made to producers of Australian films. It will be able to join with producers of Australian films under arrangements which will entitle it to receive a share of the proceeds without being liable for debts which may be incurred. It may also, subject to ministerial approval, participate in the formation of  a  company for the distribution of Australian films. 
The Corporation will seek to encourage the production and distribution of Australian films of high quality.I should perhaps say,  Mr President,  that when I refer to films of high quality, I do not confine my meaning to films of technical excellence or those with an artistic content which could win a festival award, but be commercially unsuccessful. The Corporation will seek to encourage the production of films which are box office successes and which have those excellences of productions, camera work, and technical presentation which justify the descriptionhigh quality'. 
The fund is intended for investment in films. It is not intended as a giveaway project. It indicates our optimism that such investment will be successful in all ways, but it is not intended as a vehicle for underwriting the full cost of a film or films. Producers of films will still be expected to have a substantial equity in a film and to show faith in their artistic and commercial judgment, and I hope that distributors will also be prepared to invest, at their judgment, in such enterprises. We believe that after a period of time, properly-made investments will be returning profits to the Corporation and there will then be no need for the Government to replenish the fund each year. That is our objective, and the measure of the scheme's success will be judged partly on this. 
So we expect profits in money terms. But at least as importantly we expect profit in human values. A flourishing film industry in Australia will employ talented Australian writers, artists, directors, actors, musicians and technicians. Many of them have all too often had to leave this country to pursue their chosen careers. Their talents have added distinction to the productions of other countries. But I know many of them wish to return again home. We hope that they will be able to do so as a result of the action here suggested. Further, film and television distributed throughout the world is perhaps the most effective means by which the image of a country can be projected abroad the most effective means by which the ideas and way of life of a nation can become known throughout the world. We hope this Bill will help Australia in this way. lt is now apparent that Australian interest and support is beginning to be available for local productions and it is my Government's hope that money provided by the Corporation will act as a catalyst to encourage private capital to invest in Australian productions. In other countries, considerable investment in film production is forthcoming from banking and other financial institutions. Let us hope and urge that this support - along with that support from distributors and exhibitors which 1 have mentioned - will bc forthcoming here. 
The Corporation will consist of a  chairman  and four other members - each appointed for periods not exceeding 5 years, but eligible for reappointment. Members will be appointed from amongst persons of standing, and varied experience, but without pecuniary interests in the business of making, distributing, or exhibiting films, or in a corporation carrying on such a business. The Corporation will be required to report annually to the Minister with appropriate financial statements. The Minister will be required to lay the report and financial statements, together with the report of the Auditor-General, before each House of the Parliament. lt gives me great pleasure to introduce this Bill, lt expresses the Government's belief that we should devote ourselves not only to building great new factories and smellers, not only to wresting produce and minerals from the earth of Australia, not only to material standards, but also to involvement in, and development of, the arts. The human values we will thereby nurture, the satisfaction we will offer to individual development, the improvement of the quality of life are essential for any nation if it is to merit the description great. I believe this Bill will help us to attain these aims, and  1  commend it to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Poke)  adjourned. 
I will seekthe information for which the honourable senator has asked. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is to be found in the Prime Minister's statement that was put down in the House of Representatives last night. 
You need no more assurance than you get from the Prime Minister of Australia. 
The whole of the honourable senator's question is based on the first part  of  it in which he asks: Is it a fact that the average amount in savings bank accounts is  of  the order  of  $500? I do not know whether that is true or false. In saying that, 1 am not suggesting that  Senator Cant  would give information that he did not believe to be true. In view of the fact that the whole of the question is based on the request for that piece of information, 1 think the proper thing to do is to put it on the notice paper, and then we will send it to the Treasury and subsequently give a reply to it. Yesterday I gave  Senator Cant  a reply which gave some of the information that he is using by way of question today. 
I do not have that information. I imagine that the figures the honourable senator is seeking arc not available yet because there would be a clear distinction between the parliamentary function on the one hand - I suppose that the cost of it would be met from the parliamentary grant - and the Government House function on the other hand. I think the best thing to do would be to put the question on the notice paper, and then we will obtain a considered reply for the honourable senator. 
The Minister for Trade and Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Dehydrated peas are recorded in official statistics by weight and value. I am informed that it is generally recognised that 1 lb of dehydrated peas is equivalent to between 4 and 5 lb of frozen peas. 
In recent years, because of a request for confidentiality, the Commonwealth Statistician has not recorded detailed statistics of imports of dehydrated peas. In 1967-68, however, imports totalled 1.8 million lb with more than half coming from Britain and none from United States. 
A decision whether or not to commence manufacture in Australia is a matter for the companies concerned. The Government, however, has set up a joint Government and Industry Panel to keep a close watch on imports. Growers and processors of peas and beans are represented on this panel. 
I. move: 
That, unless otherwise ordered the days and times of meeting of the Senate for the period from 6th May until the end of the present period of sittings be as follows: 
Tuesdays; - 2.30 p.m. until 6 p.m. 8 p.m. until 1 1 p.m. 
Wednesdays - 2.30 p.m. until 6 p.m. 8 p.m. until 1 1 p.m. 
Thursdays - 10 a.m. until 1 p.m. 2 p.m. until 6 p.m. 8 p.m. until 11 p.m. 
That, unless otherwise ordered, the Sessional Order relating to the adjournment of the Senate have effect at11 p.m. each day. 
The motion before the Senate adverts to proposed days and times of sittings for the Senate for the remainder of this sessional period. Honourable senators will have the relevant times on the business paper in front of them. The purpose of the motion is to gear ourselves to the anticipated legislative programme for the remainder of the sittings. lt has been suggested that the sittings of the Senate may run until 12th June.It has been suggested that in that period till 1 2th June we sit for 3 weeks, rise for1 week and then sit for 2 weeks. In the motion I have tried to keep in mind at all times what has come to be accepted on both sides of the Senate and that is a very real reluctance to carry out the business of the Senate in the early hours of the morning. I have shaped the times on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays so that the question relating to the adjournment is put at 11 p.m. 
I want to be completely frank with the Senate.It may well be that, when additional work comes to the Senate from another place, we may need to give consideration to sittings on Fridays. As honourable senators know, the other place is sitting on Fridays, commencing this week. This motion does not envisage sitting on Fridays because at this point of time the volume of work that has come from the other place does not justify my making a plea for Friday sittings. I feel bound to say that whilst I would like the Senate to agree to these suggested times it may well be, having regard to the proposed work programme of the Government for the remainder of the sittings until 12th June, that I will need to put to the Senate for consideration the idea of Friday sittings, starting at about 10 a.m. and finishing at possibly 3.30 p.m. so everybody could at least get home for the weekends. I have not done that yet. This motion provides for an earlier start, a shorter lunch break and the extension of the sitting until 1 1 p.m. I feel also bound to say to the Senate, in the spirit in which we always discuss these questions of times which are not political issues, that I judge that it may well be that 12th June will prove not to be a realistic date of rising for the winter recess in relation to the completion of the Senate's responsibilities for the autumn programme. This is because we can deal with Bills only when they come from the other place which is the House of initiation. That is my judgment at the present time. I hope we will succeed in completing our programme by that date and I know that I always have the co-operation of all honourable senators in trying to complete our programme. 
Yes, it snowed today.I know that the winter recess is a very important one because we have many committee jobs to do and many delegations to go to certain places at home and abroad. Nevertheless I think I should mention that I have a mental reservation as to whether we will be able to conclude our work by 12th June. I hope that we can. Against that background - and I have tried to be completely frank with the Senate  -  I would like honourable senators to put their minds to approving the proposed new sitting hours. These hours are: Tuesdays, 2.30 p.m. until 6 p.m. and 8 p.m. until11 p.m.; Wednesdays, 2.30 p.m. until 6 p.m. and 8 p.m. until11 p.m.; and Thursdays, 10 a.m. until 1 p.m., 2 p.m. until 6 p.m. and 8 p.m. until 11 p.m. Of course, tomorrow morning we will sit from 9.55 a.m. until1 p.m. pursuant to the resolution which has just been carried. I commend the motion to the Senate. 
On 17th March 1970  Senator Laucke  asked me the following question without notice: 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry aware of a steep increase in insurance premiums covering Australia's exports to the Arabian Gulf and Red Sea ports, Aden and North African Mediterranean ports? Is he also aware that in the case of flour exports the normal all-risk cover, exclusive of war risk, has risen by 500% in the last 6 months from 50c a ton to $2.50 a ton? Will the Minister have the immensely excessive charges investigated as they constitute a serious handicap to export capability? 
I undertook to obtain further information from the Minister for Trade and Industry for the honourable senator. The Minister has provided me with the following reply: 
Wilh respect to non-commercial risks which may be insured against with the Statutory Commonwealth Export Payments Insurance Corporation, I am informed that little, if any, part of any overall increase in insurance charges can be attributable to the cost of policies of Export Payments Insurance. 
In fact, the cost of E.P.I.C. policies was recently reduced following a genera) review by the Corporation and any variations in respect of individual policies would have been marginal only. 
With respect to premiums quoted by commercial insurance companies, I am informed that these premiums have increased over the last 15 months in respect of cargoes consigned to ports in the Arabian Gulf. Red Sea and the North African Coast, the last substantial increase being made about the middle of 1969. 
Insurance rates quoted normally cover movement of goods from warehouse consignor to warehouse consignee, and the rates vary between companies. 
In regard to flour, the rate for a shipment to Jeddah in the Red Sea was reported to be approximately  H%  about 15 months ago, but the current rate is understood to be about 61% for a complete cover. 
The principal reason given by Insurance Companies for the increase is said to be the steep increase in claims for compensation arising from pilferage, loss and damage to cargo following a deterioration in port congestion and handling conditions. 
Pending the building of modern ports and facilities in these areas it is difficult for shipping lines to adopt the modern cargo methods which can reduce pilferage and damage to cargo. However, the lines are endeavouring to unitise to the maximum extent possible. 
It is understood that shippers to these areas are endeavouring to negotiate lower rates in respect of some ports which have a better record in the matter of loss and damage to cargo, but the ultimate solution must lie in the adoption of more modern methods. 
I am not aware of the practice, if it is a practice: but in response to the request made by  Senator Keeffe  I will have inquiries made in relation to the allegation. 
I did not bother to go out and have a look at the demonstration, but I have been informed that Vietcong flags were in evidence in the march and the assembly. Therefore, anybody who spoke, in some sense could be said to have been speaking against the background of the Vietcong flags. The next comment 1 want to make is that it is not unknown - we have read about this in newspaper reports of court proceedings during the last week - for people to use a technique in which they take a film away, transpose it and put it into a different context in order to create a certain impression. I seem to remember some recent injunctions in the courts relating to the use of this device. I think it would be deplorable, shameful and wicked if photographs were taken of curious children - 1 put it at that level because they would be curious to know what it was all about and they would have no significant understanding of it - with a background of a Vietcong flag, the flag of our enemy, and also of the Australian parliamentary building, and such photographs were used in the manner suggested. I think it would be a disgraceful and deplorable thing and J hope to God that it will not happen. 
Yes. If it is not a tion which would be more appropriately directed to the Treasurer. I am not informed-- 
Yes. If it is not a matter for the Treasurer it may well fall into the slot that the honourable senator suggests. I will pick the question up and have it examined and I hope to have a reply for the honourable senator when next we sit. 
This, too, is a matter that would need to be referred to the Department of External Affairs, lt is true that independence is to be granted to Fiji and I gather that it is to take effect from October. Over the years we in Australia have built up a tremendous increase in our posts overseas for the promotion of international goodwill and indeed in the interests of our trade and commerce. I will have the matter examined to see whether there is a case at this time, concurrently with this move to independence, to upgrade or advance our representation in that country. 
This is a comprehensive question as the honourable senator indicated. First of all there is one basic factor that must always be considered in relation to such a proposition. That basic factor is the needs of the Services. They are paramount in such a proposition. In the movement of personnel it is not a question of saying that some other person of equal seniority could be moved instead. Particularly in the Services, the paramount consideration at all times must be to obtain for the job concerned the person - whether he be of commissioned or non-commissioned rar.k - who is the most competent and is likely to be the most effective in it. That deals with the first part of the question. 
In the second part the honourable senator asks whether in cases of movement consideration could be given to the matter being put to a tribunal. I am not aware of the various requirements within the Services in relation to this matter. I would be quite prepared to have that part of the question - in fact, the whole of the question - referred to the Minister for Defence; but I believe that there would not bc in the first part the substance that there is in the second part. If the honourable senator puts the whole question on the notice paper it will be referred to the Minister for Defence. 
On behalf of the Department of External Affairs, I give a supplementary answer to the honorable senator's question. The Department of Customs and Excise does its work by the exercise of export prohibition regulations. Regulations to prohibit the export of certain things are introduced, lt is not uncommon to make representations to another country, where we consider that irregularities might be occurring, to co-operate through the normal channels. I will have that part of the honorable senator's question referred to the Department of External Affairs to ascertain whether any advantage can be gained by his proposal. The Department of External Affairs has very close liaison with the Department of Customs and Excise to ascertain the magnitude and the background of the problem. 1 would like to digress for a moment, with your indulgence,  Mr President.  I think all honorable senators are delighted to know that  Senator Mulvihill  has come through the moment of political truth that we all have to endure every 5 or 6 years. 
I do not have the advantage of having the relevant documents in front of me, but I accept that  Senator Sim  is quoting from documents in that regard. I accept the point of view that he has expressed. 
To me it would suggest the terrible strain to which they have been subjected by the assault of their enemies. 
Having had discussions with leaders of the various parties I wish to move: 
Thai order of the day No. I relating lo times of meeting of the Senate be stood over. 
The intention is to bring the matter o.n after lunch. With the concurrence of the leaders 1 will move after lunch to bring on the discussion of hours of sitting. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I seek leave to amend my motion to accord with  Senator .Murphy's  suggestion. 
Question resolved in the affirmative 
I would agree that it is most desirable that there should be a complete understanding of the tactics which were used in the debate here last night, tactics that could give the appearance of innocent people being part of this propaganda machine. These are Communist tactics. They are not new. They started a long time ago. Every honourable senator has a responsibility. I know that every honourable senator on the Government side will use his good offices to bring the message home. The debate on the Moratorium Campaign, if it did nothing else, was calculated to bring these tactics to the awareness of the people. We have a responsibility to bring this matter to the fore. As for having it done by way of publicity, today is Thursday and I understand this nonsense is to commence tomorrow. I again say that the substance of what  Senator Marriott  has said is completely right. There is a responsibility on everybody to see that the ordinary procedures of democratic government in Australia continue to prevail. Any departure from this by way of illegal means is an incitement to anarchy. 
I have said before in this place and I have no hesitation in repeating that there is a right in our democracy of orderly demonstration and orderly dissent. The point 1 have been making which has been brought out as a result of statements made by other people is that any incitement to break the law and any incitement to exercise dissent by encouragement - as was reflected in a debate in this place not so long ago - to go ' outside the law is something to be deplored, lt is something which is completely out of character in anybody who comes to this place or who takes an oath to make the laws and abide by the laws. It is quite wrong and contrary to our system. I repeat: I have no difficulty in saying that the right of dissent is recognised in the framework of our democracy, but that right of dissent does not mean that when you do not like a law you can break it by demonstrating. That is the kind of argument we heard even in this Senate, the law-making place, as late as last night. I agree with  Senator Murphy  that there was a demonstration in front of Parliament House yesterday, I agree that persons taking part in the demonstration did have Vietcong flags, and that it was not a disorderly demonstration. As  Senator Little  has pointed out, photographs no doubt were taken of persons holding Vietcong flags against the background of Parliament House. But I believe that the subtlety of that is not lost. I think we should be grateful to  Senator Little  for having brought out the point at question time. 
1 asked that the previous question be put on notice and 1 must ask that this question be put on notice. When the honourable senator has been here a little longer he will realise that affairs between nations and documents relating to them do not normally come within the procedures in relation to the tabling of papers.  should imagine that it would be an impossible situation to call for the tabling of papers relating to negotiations and affairs between nations. For how long nations would be prepared to discuss matters with one another in those circumstances, I would not have a clue. 
The affairs of a university are within the responsibility of the university. Moving to the second stage, if a university needs protection it has the responsibility of approaching the State Government. The honourable senator's question simply points up one more example of the tactics that are being used in the current situation. Here again we are grateful to him for raising the matter and demonstrating what is going on. 
 Senator Bishop  does not realise the implications of his question. He is really reflecting on a ruling of the Chair. But putting that aside and coming to the other aspect of his question, he is suggesting that I had some foreknowledge of  Senator Little's  question.  Senator Little  and I are very- 
A demonstration which is orderly and which is carried out in collaboration with the people who administer the law of the land so as not to inconvenience the public is one thing; a demonstration in which people are incited to sit down in traffic and are being openly and deliberately incited to break the law is an entirely different thing. In fact certain resolutions were carried and some people in the parliamentary scene are saying: 'We do not want violence, but', and there is always a but'. The Government, with a sense of responsibility, wishing to preserve what we have built up in our democracy throughout our history, is concerned about people doing these things, inciting others to break the law and inducing innocent people - starry-eyed people, if you like - to become associated with them without realising the type of association they are getting into. 
They are trying to induce innocent children to be involved in something of which they have no appreciation. These are the issues involved. 
In all the time 1 have been in this place I have not once heard from the Opposition any statement relating to the people of South Vietnam whose country is being overrun. At no stage have I heard an Opposition  speaker  deplore the invasion of South Vietnam, nor have I heard a member of the Opposition express sympathy for this country which is righting for its very existence. The whole attitude of honourable senators opposite is in support of Hanoi and the people who are trying to down the South Vietnamese. That is the whole approach of the Opposition. That is its self convicted position and the Labor Party will have to live with it as a political party for the rest of its life. 
The answer is obviously no,  Mr President.  The Leader of the Opposition knows his allegation is not true. He also knows that the people of South Vietnam are fighting for their very existence and their own nationhood and that the contribution made by their allies - the United States of America, Australia, New Zealand and South Korea - is for no other purpose than to give the people of South Vietnam the right to self government and self protection. It has always been a source of amazement to me that I never hear one good word from these apostles of democracy from the Opposition, for this country, South Vietnam, which is being racked by invasion. No good word is ever said by these people about the protection of South Vietnam. I repeat that honourable senators opposite will have to live with this fact for the rest of their lives. 
The answer is yes. I think that is basic. What the Australian Government has said is that if people wish to demonstrate in order to express their dissent, all that the Government asks of them - and I say this in the light of the full responsibility I hold - is that they do so within the processes of our democratic procedures. 
1 have not had an opportunity to read the letter to which the honourable senator refers, but from the contents of it as given to me by way of the honourable senator's question I would say that the letter reflects completely the point of view which is being expressed by the Government and honourable senators on this side of the chamber in relation to the procedures and methods which are being adopted by the Moratorium Committee. 
It is true, as the honourable senator has pointed out, that questions have been asked and replies given on this subject. Recently I replied to such a question, at the end of question time. The answer which was given on that occasion referred to a previous situation. The current situation is that both  Senator Devitt  and  Senator Lillico  have drawn the attention of the Senate to alleged new sightings of foreign ships off the north west coast of Tasmania. 1 have sought to have inquiries made in relation to these alleged new sightings. As to the question concerning the previous situation, an answer has been given to it. It may have got under the honourable senator's guard because it was given to a question on notice on, I think, last Tuesday. The only outstanding matter is that of further alleged sightings, which are now being inquired into. 
I do not know the background of these matters. They are within the jurisdiction of the AttorneyGeneral. Therefore, I think that the proper thing to do- 
All I can say is that 1 will follow up the question that the honorable senator has asked. 
The question is improperly framed. It puts words into my mouth which I have never used. I have made no claims at all about any documents. I have carried out my duty as Minister representing a Minister in another place. There is no question of the tabling of documents. I have very properly taken notice of questions that have been asked of me so that I could make inquiries and obtain replies. I suggest that the honourable senator put his question on notice and it will be tied to the previous questions that have been asked. 
There have been incidents to which honourable senators on the Opposition side have directed the attention of the Senate. They have been unfortunate and deplorable incidents. There have been questions from honourable senators on my side of the chamber concerning incidents for which enemy troops have been to blame but about which we never hear questions from Opposition senators. As to the balance of the question, I would not like to give a reply at question time. But if the honourable senator wants to seek knowledge of representations Australia has made, he should put his question on notice and 1 will get a reply for him. 
1 do not think we would have statistics which purported to set out the casulty rate as a result of American intervention. I am quite certain that there have been significant casualties in life and limb and shocking hardship inflicted upon the people of South Vietnam. I imagine that such figures would be available. 1 will seek to obtain them and to table them in this place. I do not think that the refinement which the honourable senator seeks to put on the figures would be available. 
That, of course, is a lawyer's question and 1 am not going to respond to it. It is also purely hypothetical. The facts are that allied troops, including those from the United States, Australia, New Zealand and South Korea, have been in South Vietnam assisting the South Vietnamese to resist aggression for a long time. The question almost verges on the area of semantics and for that reason I do not intend to respond to it. 
The subsequent part of the question took a different form from the first part which related to a matter which was quite clearly the concern of the Governement of New South Wales. The second part of the question relates to a reflection on members of the Commonwealth Police Force in that it suggests that they might resort to violence. I recognise, and I hope everybody else in this country would recognise, that a police force, whether it be State or Commonwealth, has a responsibility to uphold the law and its members would not exercise any more violence than would be necessary to meet a situation. This does not mean that a policeman who goes along to a demonstration is to let people kick him, belt him and abuse him and is not to defend himself because he is a police officer. He has a responsibility to use no more violence than is necessary to meet the situation in upholding the law. This is a simple thing that, I would hope, everybody understands. As to the circumstances of the case which were apparently shown on television, I would think that that would be a matter in which New South Wales policemen were involved and if anybody has any protest to make about the way in which they handled the situation the representations should be made to the New South Wales Government. 
 I have not had the advantage of reading the report to which the honourable senator refers. All I can say is that I did read a report  -  I point out that it also was a report- - that indicated that the Cambodian Government had expressed its delight that the Allied forces had moved into its country. That adverts to a matter that was raised in a debate here yesterday. Nobody takes any joy in the circumstances of war. Any question that points to the fact or suggests that anybody does so is completely out of character. On both sides of the Senate we have people who have suffered bitterly and tragically as a result of war. We understand what it means. 
 Senator Hendrickson  is not a lawyer, and there is an old expression about people rushing in where others fear to tread. All I am saying in response to  Senator Milliner s  question, which is based on a report that appeared in the Press, is that this is stark tragedy; but what has been happening in Cambodia recently and what has been happening in South Vietnam for some time is part of the end result of people fighting for their very existence, fighting to survive and fighting so that they can enjoy the privileges we have. Yet because the people of the free world go in to defend and help those people they become the object of cruel criticism by the people who sit on the Opposition benches. 
This again is a perfect example of confused thinking. The statement relates to Cambodia, and the honorable senator wants to tie it to Vietnam. In this Parliament not long ago the Prime Minister made a statement about the proposed withdrawal of Australian troops. It was tied to a statement in which the  President  of the United States had made proposals about the withdrawal of United States troops. To hold up a piece of paper containing a statement that relates to Cambodia and then to try to turn it around and relate it to another situation is completely unreal. 
As a responsible Minister in the Government, I am quite clear in my mind that there are no antisemitic attitudes in this country. The whole of our Australian democracy is built around our complete freedoms. We are all equal - Calathumpians, Jews or Gentiles. 
I do not refer to what he said. I am replying to the honourable senator's question. He used what was allegedly said as the basis for it. Equally, I would not want to make any statement that implied that that position prevails in America. Presumably, that is an expression of opinion by a person. The honourable senator should not try to run me into the use of words that I do not want to use. 
We seem to have had a good morning. If I may say so at this stage, in the spirit in which we operate here, I would like us, if we can, to move away from questions now and move on to the business before the Senate, bearing in mind that we will be debating General Business after 8 o'clock tonight. 
I presume that we now have a motion and can speak to it. I do not oppose this. As I understand the mechanics of the situation, we are dealing with General Business which will proceed according to the business paper in the circumstances as were outlined by  Senator Byrne.  He can rearrange it if he wishes and move to item No. 2 so far as my side of the chamber is concerned. In any event, he has the mechanics in his own hands. He simply has to withdraw item No.1 and we then move to item No. 2. 
Yes, it is lost altogether. On the other hand, the honourable senator can put it on the business paper again tomorrow. There are 2 options open. I am a man of peace. We on this side are very gentle and are prepared to co-operate. 
I seek leave to make a statement. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - Is leave granted? There being no objection leave is granted. 
In the period since we last debated this matter I have had discussions with members  of  the Government parties and, in the short term, we are not attracted to the proposal for a 2-week cycle of sittings. I am speaking now exclusively about the remainder  of  these sittings until 12th June or thereabout. We are not attracted to any proposal for a 2-week cycle of sittings - that is, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday. The reason why we are not impressed with that proposal is that it would pose tremendous difficulties for those honourable senators who live in Western Australia, Queensland or Tasmania. They may well find themselves arriving home, at the best, very late on Friday evening or not until Saturday morning. They would need to leave their State on the Sunday afternoon or midday Sunday in order to reach Canberra for their work on Monday. We are not prepared at this point of time to countenance that as a proposition. 
I want to put the motion as it appears on the notice paper. I give an assurance that when we are sitting during the Budget session I intend to speak with the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  and the Leader of the Australian Democratic Labor Party  (Senator Gair)  to discuss on a mutual basis any proposal that may be canvassed for the sitting times of the Budget session. In doing  so we  may need to have regard to the other House. I therefore move  in  terms  of  Order of the Day No.1 for the remainder of the sittings in this sessional period. There may be some variation in these times, give or take a little, but I want to  keep  as close to them as I possibly can for the remainder of the session. It may  well be  that as more work comes to this chamber from the other place I may move,  even in  this period of sittings, for Friday sittings.  The  work load may very well justify this;  in  fact I am certain it will. 
by leave - I would have some reservations about that because 1 notice of motion is in critical vein. Item No. 2 proposes the setting up of a joint select committee whereas item No. 4 states: 
The Senate considers that the Government has failed to make reasonable financial arrangements with the Stales. . . . 
The 2 subjects are in a completely different context and I do not think it appropriate to debate them together. There is no implied criticism of the Government in item No. 2 but there is a very strong implied criticism of the Government in item No. 4. 
I hope that the Senate will settle down in this debate on the motion for the adjournment of the 
Senate so that we can discuss the matter of this standing order in a proper atmosphere. In the long period of time that I have been here 1 have always accepted the situation that the Standing Orders provide vehicles for honourable senators on all sides of the chamber to raise matters by moving for the adjournment of the Senate. 
I will not respond at all to  Senator Willesee's  interjection, and I believe that it is in his very best interests that I do not. It has always been my understanding that standing order 64 provides a vehicle so that an honourable senator may in his own right raise any matter. For as long as I can remember - and 1 have a clear memory on this - standing order 64, which is the 1 relating to the adjournment of the Senate to a time other than that provided for under the Sessional Orders, has been a vehicle to allow a senator to raise a matter which he believes to be a matter of urgency. I am fortified by references in the records to previous rulings in my contention that the motion is only a motion for the adjournment to a different time. The subject matter does not become part of the resolution for the adjournment. The adjournment procedure is to enable an honourable senator to raise any matter he wants to raise.  He moves for the adjournment and then states his case. 
I repeat that this is the only question at issue, despite all ihe  sideswiping  that has been going on. lt nas always been the procedure of the Senate that what follows a motion for the adjournment of the Senate to a certain time is a matter of substance in the view of the people who want to debate it. For that reason 1, along with other honourable senators on this side of the House, believe that  the Journals of the House to that extent are completely accurate, and I would support the preservation of their accuracy. 
The answer to the first part of the honourable senator's question is yes. 1 propose to get around the problem with the co-operation of honourable senators. 
I feel that I have an obligation to say that my understanding of the purpose of  Senator Murphy's  motion was that it was to have the papers tabled. 
Incorporated. As I see the situation, there will be a vote. If the Government resists the motion and wins the vote  Senator Keeffe  will be entitled to say: That is that. On the other hand, if the Government loses the vote the papers will be incorporated. J therefore think that a vote is a simple and quick way to get a result. 
The question asked by the honourable senator is most appropriate because members of the ELDO council were in Australia last week and in fact visited Parliament House. J had an opportunity to talk to the  President  and to the Secretary-General of the Organisation. Some time ago I informed the Senate of the transfer from the Woomera Range to French Guiana of the ELDO projects because of geographical factors and the intention to have equatorial firings as distinct from the type of firings we have had from the Woomera establishment. I have also indicated in the Senate in response to questions without notice or by written reply that with the current firing the ELDO programmes at Woomera will cease. It is expected that that firing will take place some time in June or early July. 
Certain negotiations are currently going on with the ELDO establishments in relation to Australia's acquiring the properties in the Woomera establishment. Further, because of the other activities in the Woomera complex, or close by the Woomera complex, certain of the establishments will be used and it may well be that this will help the employment situation. 
The honourable senator asked whether it is our intention to remain as a member of ELDO. Yes, it is our intention to remain as a member of ELDO and of ESRO - the European Space Research Organisation - because we believe that Australia in its other activities, for instance, in its joint project, its National Aeronautics and Space Administration establishments and in its other undertakings, has a very real capability and real technical know-how in the field of outer space and in the matter of firings and the steps that may be taken in the various sciences as a result of the firings. I do not think the honourable senator raised any other point. 
That matter will arise but it must bc recognised that some of the staff of ELDO, a project which involves a number of other nations, are technical people who have come to Australia for the purpose of the ELDO firings. Apart from that, I believe that we have some know-how and some capability. As to the other point the honourable senator raised, at our conference last week I mentioned this very issue as to whether, apart altogether from the direct firing there could not be some function, some role, or some purpose for Australia in relation to which our Woomera Range could be used. This is just another reason why we are remaining in the ELDO programme. We think we have the potential. 
 I suggest that the question is quite off line from the facts and circumstances. 
1 answered a lot of questions about the Moratorium last Thursday and I am quite willing to answer a lot of questions about it today. But I am not prepared to answer interjections while answering questions, lt is an old gag to ask questions and then to muddy the waters by interjections so that the answers cannot be given. I believe that if anything came out of the Moratorium as far as this Parliament is concerned, it is the fact that supporters of the Government drew attention to the responsibility for peaceful conduct by the people involved in it. I well recall that I was one of those people who contributed to an appeal to everybody taking part in the demonstrations to conduct their dissent in an orderly fashion. What is more to the point, 1 think I was invited to do so by an honourable senator opposite and I readily responded and made the appeal that anybody who chose to dissent should do so within the framework of the law. 
This is a fairly wide question but nevertheless is a very important one. I think it should be recognised in the first place that Australia provides a tremendous amount, in proportion to its population and size, in the fields of research and development in technology, both in outer space and in deep space communications. The fact that the ELDO programme is coming to a conclusion in Australia has been foreseen for considerable time and, as I have said, it is due to the fact that the ELDO nations wish to do their launching on a equatorial basis. We are not geographically placed to enable launchings to be made from Australia. That is one of the prime reasons for the move to French Guiana. The proposed move is not associated with Australia's development in the sciences or technology of outer space, nor with the applications that stem from it in the navigational or meteorological areas. No matter what 'ology' is named, it conies within the study of these things. 
We are involved, for instance, in project Mallard' with other nations involving a communications system for the defence forces. We are involved with the United Nations in joint programmes involving a whole series of studies. In addition there are various studies going on at Woomera and at Salisbury, which is a back-up establishment for Woomera. We are involved probably more than any other country in the NASA programme, which is a long term programme which will continue. Talking about going to the moon is one thing, but comparatively that journey is quite insignificant in terms of deep space. The moon is 240,000 miles away, but there is talk of getting out 30 million miles and having transit stations along the way. Question lime is hardly the appropriate time for me to give a deep studied answer to the question asked by the Leader of the Opposition, lt is sufficient to say that in the short run our continued role in this field is assured. However. I would like to spread my answer and give a considered reply in depth for the advantage of honourable senators and indeed for Australia at large so that all may know just what a significant part we are playing. We have in Australia a great deal of technical know-how and are developing defence know-how and this particular role will continue. 
I think the first thing to say is that the Prime Minister went to Japan at the invitation of the Prime Minister of Japan to visit Expo 70. While he was there he had an audience with the Emperor, which was the prime purpose of his visit and which was an historical event. There was no secret about it. I believe it was a very successful visit by our Prime Minister to Japan. It is true that the Minister foi- Primary Industry visited Japan where he had discussions on a variety of matters. It is equally true that he visited Canada where he had discussions on matters concerning his portfolio. 
I think that the honourable senator has been reading too much of the rumour columns in the Press. I really do not think that the honourable senator should start drawing conclusions about the relationship of one nation with another on matters of trade which are a result of visits of the importance of those of the Prime Minister and the Minister for Primary Industry. These things do not work that way. Questions of trade are of tremendous importance. They are matters to be discussed in depth. Many Government officials are present at these discussions and reports emanate from them. As to the honourable senator's reference to the Prime Minister and the Minister for Primary Industry having the wool pulled over their eyes, f suggest that the honourable senator needs to be careful that the wool is not pulled over his eyes. 
The honourable senator has been here long enough to know that he cannot anticipate statements of policy in the Senate or in the Parliament; nor, and more particularly, can he expect such statements to be made at question time. The result of the consideration of financial matters which the Government has undertaken normally reflects itself in the Budget. 
I am not particularly clear as to the isolated area to which the honourable senator referred, but quite clearly it is not normal to anticipate Government ' decisions on matters of policy. 
 I want to assure the honourable senator and the Senate that I did not witness the procession or marches on Moratorium day at all. I can rely only on what happened outside Parliament House in Canberra, from a very limited observation, and on what was shown on television. I do not think there would be any dispute that Vietcong and North Vietnamese flags were in evidence at various marches. Therefore, anybody who chose to march must have accepted that Vietcong and North Vietnamese flags were part of the march. Why such people choose to march and to march with an awareness of the state in which the world is today, with Australian troops in Vietnam, always has bewildered me. I am sure it has completely bewildered hundreds of thousands - the vast majority of Australian people - who find such action completely incompatible with their sense of the rightness of things. 1 am not here to answer questions on morality or to give judgments on the morality of human beings. I know where my loyalties lie. I know where the loyalties of the great mass of the Australian people lie. If people choose to act in complete conflict with those loyalties, that is their responsibility. 
The honourable senator asks whether I am aware of the consequences of the loss of our mutton export market in terms of the unemployment which may result. 1 am not aware of the precise figures, but I do not challenge the figures which the honourable senator has given. I would agree that it is a serious matter. Any loss of employment is a very serious matter. It is bad to have a large number of people unemployed. It is equally grave to lose an export market because Australia is a country which relies on its primary production. Despite our tremendous development in the mineral field we are still very dependent on our export markets for our primary products for our security, progress and development. 
I think it is axiomatic that the Australian Government - particularly the Minister for Trade and Industry - will be making every effort to ensure that, if possible, Australia maintains its share of the market. 1 accept the honourable senator's question. I shall refer it to the Minister for Trade and Industry. However, I am quite convinced that he will be already doing everything within his capacity and the capacity of the Government to try to preserve our export market in this field. 
The Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The income tax legislation provides that the assessable income of a taxpayer shall include the value to him of all benefits, including the use of premises or quarters, given or granted in rela-tion to any employment or services rendered by him. The provision applies uniformly throughout Australia. The amount to be included in assessable income is based on the rental value of the premises less the amount, if any, the employee is required to pay. The rental value of any particular premises is a question of fact to bc decided in the light of local conditions. In practice the value to the taxpayer of premises provided is calculated on a conservative basis and appropriate reductions arc made where the premises are substandard or there are . other factors which would have a bearing on the normal rental value. 
There is no indication that rural workers are being taxed on unreal rental values of premises provided. If a taxpayer considers that the value placed on the premises is excessive, a review will be made by the Commission of Taxation if full details are furnished. The question of exempting rural workers from tax on the value of premises provided would involve far reaching consequences if employees in other industries continued to be taxed on similar benefits. However, arrangements have been made for the matter to receive further consideration when the .1970-71 Budget is being prepared. 
On 9th April  Senator Young  asked me a question without notice concerning the exemption of certain rural producers from the recent increase in trading bank lending rates. In particular, he asked whether there is likely to be any resistance by banking institutions lo the lending of money to the primary industry sector. I indicated that I would refer the matter to the Treasurer. The Treasurer has now provided me with the following information: lt has been a long-standing policy of the Government that the trading banks should give preferential treatment to rural producers, both in regard to the availability of finance and the interest rale charged. This policy is well understood by the trading banks which have given the Reserve Bank of Australia frequent assurances that the traditional preference is being maintained. 
On 15th April  Senator Milliner  asked me the following question: 1 ask the Acting Minister  for  External  Affairs:  ls it a fact that the much referred to official request from the Government of South Vietnam to commit Australian combat troops has never been published? Can  the  Minister give the reasons  why  the Government has  not  made known the text  of  the request  or published such a vital document 
The answer to the honourable senator's question may be found in the reply I made to the question without notice asked by  Senator Murphy  on 1 1th March 1970 (Hansard, page 549). 
The Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The income lux law provides that the assessable income of  a  taxpayer shall include profit arising from the sale by the taxpayer of any property acquired by him for the purpose of profit making by sale. There is also a complementary provision which allows deductions for losses sustained in similar circumstances. The question to be decided in each case depends upon the particular facts and any taxpayer who has  any  doubt as to his position is advised to submit full details to the Commissioner of Taxation. Assessments on such profits are issued only after the matter has been thoroughly examined at a senior level within the Commonwealth Taxation Office and, in the event of a dispute arising, the taxpayer may have the matter reviewed by an independent tribunal. 
The possibility of taxing such profits on an arbitrary rule based on the length of time the property is held has been considered but it has been found on examination that the proposal raises complex issues and could, in certain circumstances, produce anomalies. Nevertheless, the question of amending the law along these lines will receive further consideration. 
-I move: 
That the Bill be  now read  a  second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to obtain parliamentary authority for additional expenditure in 1969-70 amounting to $34,087,000 on various items relating to capital works and services, payments to or for the States and certain other services. Although additional appropriations of $25. 8m are sought for capital works and services it is expected that because of savings of about $8. 6m in other similar appropriations in Appropriation Act (No. 2) of 1969-70, the cash requirement over the Budget estimate of $536.7m will be about $17.2m. The major requirements are $2m for a repayable advance to the Papua and New Guinea Administration for construction of the township at Arawa in connection with the Bougainville copper project, $3m advance to the Papua and New Guinea Administration for Budget equalisation purposes, $1.6m for acquisition of sites and buildings, $1.4m for loans to co-operative building societies in the Australian Capital Territory, $3.9m advance to the Northern Territory Housing Commission which will be offset to the extent of about $3.4m because of savings in a similar appropriation,$1.1m for the Snowy Mountains hydro-electric power project, $4m for payment to the Post Office Trust Account and $5m for buildings and works. 
Additional appropriations of$8.1m are sought for payments to or for the States, including $7m for drought assistance to Queensland. It is expected that there will be savings of about $0.6m in other similar appropriations in Appropriation Act (No. 2) 1969-70. The additional appropriations sought for other services amount to $212,000 which includes a grant of $150,000 tothe South Pacific Games (1969) Trust. As I have said this Bill seeks additional appropriations of $34,087,000. However because of savings in expenditure under other appropriations in Appropriation Act (No. 2) 1969-70, it is expected that the total expenditure will exceed the amount appropriated in Appropriation Act (No. 2) 1969-70 by about $24.9m. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Murphy)  adjourned. 
Yes. I thought this was inherent in the answer 1 gave earlier. It is my understanding that when abattoirs conform to the requirements of the United States of America they will come back on stream. There is no reason why they should not. If that is not the position, I will make further inquiries and inform the Senate accordingly, but that is my understanding of the position at present. 
The honourable senator's questions are blatant propaganda questions and they follow, of course, the statement which was put down last night by the Minister for Air who represents the Minister for Defence in this matter. Debate on the statement was adjourned. Therefore the questions which the honourable senator has asked relate to a matter which is already on the business paper and they do not require any answer from me now. The honourable senator's reference to an apology is arrant nonsense. The fact of the matter was that the Australian Government entered into a contract a long time ago. The Minister for Defence has been to America and has negotiated a new agreement, and I think that, far from an apology being made, the Minister for Defence will receive the praise of everybody in- Australia who reads the new agreement thoroughly. 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move - 
'Chat unless otherwise ordered, from 19th May u nt I the end of the present period of sittings, the days and times of meetings of the Senate agreed to on 7th May shall include Fridays from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. and from 2 p.m. to 4 p.m., and that the sessional order relating to the adjournment of the Senate must have effect at 4 p.m. on Fridays. 
That from 21st May until the end of the present period of sittings Government business shall take precedence over general business after 8 p.m. on Thursday evenings. 
1 believe it would be quite wrong to make assumptions that the reason for the ban on the export of mutton to the United States of America is anything more or less than what it purports and sets out to be - that our Australian killing conditions do not come up to American requirements. I believe that is the fundamental issue. I do not believe, I do not accept, and I do not think the Government accepts, that the ban has been imposed for any purpose other than that. The information 1 have at this point of time is that an early resumption of exports is expected for some plants which conform to the American requirements. It would seem to me that we must meet the American requirements if we wish to sell meat to the United States market. I believe that is the position. The honourable senator's question is based on the assumption that the ban may have been imposed because of political lobbying in the United States. That report has been made. 
The honourable senator is making his own judgment on it when he says that it is pretty right. That is a very courageous statement to make. 

 - Mr President, am 1 answering one question or half a dozen? I appeal to you,  Mr President. 
The question is a very valid one. I am not sure that this matter would come within the jurisdiction of the Prime Minister's Department. I should have thought it would be within the jurisdiction of the Minister for Trade and Industry, However, I shall take the question on board. It involves the results of a possible British entry into the European Common Market and whether a paper should be prepared setting out the pros and cons of such entry and all the implications affecting Australia. I shall refer the question in the first place to the Minister for Trade and Industry if that is the appropriate course to adopt. 
The question is a very interesting one. A practice exists in Washington which is becoming an integral part of the political scene there. I refer to what is known as the lobby, which we do not have in Australia. 
Well, it is a different kind of lobby. I am talking of the classical kind of lobby. There is hardly a section of the community in America which would not have a lobby to represent its interests. I understand that the members of these lobbies are professionals and are paid for their services. I do not doubt for one moment that there would be a meat lobby in Washington. There is nothing new or unique about this. It is part of political life and the political scene in the United Slates. What the honourable senator suggests is that the lobby may well have made very strong representations regarding the prohibition of the import of Australian mutton. 1 could not say yea or nay to that proposition. However, we must accept the situation at its face value. This prohibition on the import of Australian mutton has been imminent for some time. The question of abattoir conditions in Australia and the need to bring them up to certain standards has been under active consideration for a long time. This is not something which has come out of the blue. It has been in the air for a long time. We must accept the position al its face value until it can be shown that our abattoirs meet the United States requirements, at which point - and here I refer to the question asked by  Senator Bull  - they may recommence exporting to America. 
Fill AIRCRAFT 
We have, of course, in Tokyo representation by the Department of External Affairs and within that framework - I am speaking now from memory - there would be trade representation. Certainly the Department of Customs and Excise has an office in Tokyo because 1 well recall as Minister for Customs and Excise always bemoaning the fact that 1 was never able to go and see my own officers at work in Tokyo. I will certainly take this matter up with the Minister but I imagine that there would be a news and information service within our Australian establishments in Tokyo. 
Sentaor Wilkinson - There is. 1 want it independently of that. 
You want it independently of that. This is a matter that should be looked at. I shall refer the matter lo the Department of External Affair*, 
I have not had the advantage of seeing the statement which suggests that the Lon Nol Government has taken action to expel from Cambodia some hundreds of indigenous people. I will treat the question as being on notice and have it looked at in order to get by way of reply, if I can, some reflection of the implications in the honourable senator's question. 
The question has great attraction for me because, as all honourable senators know, the Leader of the Government in the Senate has the prime responsibility of getting the legislative programme completed. T feel bound to say that I have always had co-operation from leaders of other parties in this place. Built into the Standing Orders and the forms of the Senate is ample provision for the exercise of an individual senator's rights and one has to tread very carefully in any attempt to curtail those individual rights. I have today given notice of a motion which, on the face of it, when it comes up for debate tomorrow will have the effect of restricting the rights of individual senators after 8 o'clock on Thursday nights. That is a very big decision to have to make and 1 do it with great reluctance but we cannot get away from the point made by  Senator M  c Man us that we are here to accept, amend or reject Government business. We all need a great amount of goodwill and patience. I had in mind having a discussion with leaders of the parties before we left this week on the way in which we can better facilitate the conduct of Government business for the remainder of the sittings. I believe that all leaders will come to the conference with all the best goodwill in the world, but there are problems because there are traditions in relation to this matter to which we must have regard. 
This is really an academic question. If a person is employed to do a job, he does the job if he is worth his salt. All I said was that political lobbies are part of the political scene and political life in the United States. There is nothing mysterious about it. It is just a fact of life. I suppose there are people in Australia who would attempt to lobby honourable senators, but they would not be paid professional lobbyists in the sense that the expression has been used. 
The honourable senator is asking that the Government through the Treasurer inquire of the trading banks what have been the application and implications of the policy concerning increased interest rates. I would have to put that question to the Treasurer. I suggest that the honourable senator place his question on the notice paper and I will get a reply for him. 
If I may go back over what has happened: I moved for some variation of sitting times.  Senator Murphy,  as Leader of the Opposition, canvassed the matter which was then stood over. He merely canvassed the question and certain other proposals. When we came to a substantive decision on the matter it was agreed that whilst  Senator Murphy  was not to pursue his proposal for a 2-week cycle, he kept his options open to raise the proposal again in relation to another matter. There have been discussions- 
I am reminded by  Senator Murphy  that 1 indicated we were going to have a meeting, which I hope will be held this week. 
Fill AIRCRAFT 
Of course, Australia has representatives at the United Nations, and indeed we send delegates from the 2 Houses of this Parliament to the plenary sessions of United Nations which are held in October, November and December each year. We have at the United Nations an officer who has the status of Australian Ambassador. We are in fact very much a part of the United Nations and are playing our role, along with other nations, in helping to achieve the objectives of the United Nations. 
It is also true that in relation to the current situation that has emerged in Cambodia the Minister for External Affairs is to attend a conference on Cambodia which was initiated by the Indonesian Foreign Minister and which will be held in Djakarta on 16th and 17th May. The conference will deal with the problems of the Cambodian situation. I cannot give any further answer at this point of time, but after question time I shall look at the question to see whether there are any further aspects which I think warrant a further answer. 
 I think that I might intercede to answer the question because, as I recall,  Senator Keeffe  asked a question about the sale of Viscount aircraft and I supplied the information for which he asked.  Senator O'Byrne's  question relates to the terms and conditions of sale of the aircraft. I am speaking now without reference to notes, but it is my clear recollection that the Viscount aircraft were offered for sale under tender. Tenders were called from all over the world, and one was accepted. One of the terms and conditions of sale was that the aircraft were to be exported. The terms and conditions of sale were entered into and signed. I. have been informed that subsequently the aircraft were resold from one purchaser to another. The implications of what  Senator O'Byrne  asked stem from the circumstances in which the aircraft may be now. Quite clearly the terms and conditions of sale for the Viscount and for the aircraft sold previously by the Department of Supply provide for export of the aircraft. 
Earlier, when answering a question asked about Vietnam, I said that one would need to go back to the Geneva Accords to get a broad picture of the situation.  Senator Greenwood  asked that I pick out all the erroneous statements  that have been made and give a reply to them. I would be a very busy man if I did that. I think it would be fair comment to say that some amazing interpretations have been made by bush lawyers and by laymen as to what the Geneva Accords mean. It may be possible to get some of the main fallacies that have been propounded. 1 will ask the Department of External Affairs whether this can be done. 
The current situation is that the Standing Orders Committee has had some consideration of a paper put down by the  Clerk, Mr Odgers.  The paper is currently being considered by the various Parties. At this point of time I can talk only for the Government Parties. We have been looking at proposals and narrowing the field of our consideration in the early stages to the concept of dealing with the Estimates. I hope that within the next couple of weeks the Government Parties will be in a position for our representatives on the Standing Orders Committee to have some discussions within that Committee. I think this is the way in which the matter should be considered.I would imagine that before we rise for the winter recess we should have a clear pattern of understanding as to how a number of matters will be proceeded with during the Budget session. 
The Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question:  (1), (2) and (3) These questions relate to matters outside my sphere of responsibility. 
As the primary purpose of the sales tax law is to raise revenue, it would be preferable, in the first instance,  to  explore other means  of  dealing with problems of this kind. 
The Minister for External Affairs has provided the following reply to the honourable senator's question: 
and (2) The Australian Government has accepted an invitation from the Indonesian Foreign Minister to attend a meeting of Asian and Pacific countries in Djakarta on 16th and 17th May in an effort to help mobilise international opinion to assure the independence and neutrality of Cambodia. In my Press statement on Cambodia on 27th April I said that Australia found especially valid the Indonesian Foreign Minister's approach, since it proposed that the agenda would be confined to three simple points: the independence and neutralisation of Cambodia; non-intervention; and reactivation of the International Control Commission for Cambodia. This is the proposed framework for discussions at the Djakarta meeting, not a 'plan' on which agreement has been reached between Australia and Japan or any of the other countries who will be attending the meeting. Discussions have of course been taking place amongst the countries invited to the meeting, including between Australia and 
Japan. As to the final part of the honourable senator's question, the Government remains of the view that, as I said in my statement on 27th April, immediate action is required in Cambodia, and that any attempt to cover a wider spread of issues at this time might only serve to minimise the impact of the proposed meeting. The framework within which negotiations of a settlement of the Vietnam war already exists in Paris. Unfortunately the Communist side has not yet shown a readiness to engage in serious negotiations there. 
on 23rd April,  Senator Milliner  asked the Minister representing the Treasurer to ascertain the reason for the delay in the delivery of the bound volumes of Hansard, and I undertook to have inquiries made into the position. I am informed that the distribution of the bound volumes for the period 26th February29th May 1969 began in December last. The bound volumes covering the period 12th August-26th September 1969 will be available shortly. Approximately 750 sets of weekly Hansards - perhaps 2,250 or 3,000 separate volumes covering a sessional period - are bound for distribution to official recipients and for sale. The magnitude of this undertaking, the fact that binding can- not begin for 6 to 8 weeks after the close of a session until the indexes have been compiled by the Parliamentary Reporting Staff and set by the Government Printer, and the Christmas close-down are all considerations influencing the issue of the bound volumes for the period 12th August-26th September. 
 I want to make it abundantly clear that what is being done on this occasion is quite the normal procedure, as has been indicated by  Senator Cant  himself. It has always been a practice, for the convenience of the Senate and particularly for the convenience of the Opposition, to put messages down. Except in the odd circumstances where there is a debate on the first reading of an appropriation Bill the message is put down, the Opposition takes the adjournment and then we go on with the business. I want to make it abundantly clear that what has been done so far has not departed from what has been done in the past and the intention is to bring on the motion relating to the dissent from the Presiding Officer's ruling as soon as we get these Bills on the notice paper, which will be more or less a formal procedure. In case  Senator Cant  feels that there is any suggestion of delay in bringing on the motion I should like to make it clear that I hope that we will be in a position, before the suspension of the sitting, to bring on this item which appears on the business paper as Order of the Day - ruling of the  President. 
It simply means that you take the second reading and that the Opposition then takes the adjournment. This has always been the practiceand clearly it has been done for the convenience of the Senate. Otherwiseitremains on the table until aMinisterputs it onto the business paperinwhich case the Opposition would not necessarily be aware that the measure had arrived. As to what happened yesterday, I am the first to acknowledge that we did get a little off line because some of the Bills put down were Appropriation Bills in relation to which some honourable senators exercised their right to speak on the first reading. 
Those measures are adjourned. I suggest that the honourable senator should allow us to get this onto the business paper. 1 should like him to understand clearly that we intend to bring on the motion for dissent from the ruling as soon as we have put these Bills on the business paper. 
Question put: 
That the motion  (Senator Wright's)  be agreed to. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill presented by  Senator Wright  and read a first lime. 
 Senator Cant  has moved dissent from a ruling that you,  Mr President,  gave on 6th May. I want to make it clear at the outset that the Government does not support the motion for dissent. The Government believes that the ruling you gave is the proper ruling and therefore it cannot support the motion or vote for it. Like  Senator Cant,  1 do not propose to speak at any great length. I think it is desirable that the matter should be resolved as quickly as is possible. However, I should like to advert to some of the arguments that the honourable senator has put forward in support of his motion for dissent. 
He has said - I think that this is the foundation of his argument: Standing order 64 could be interpreted to mean that there could be a continuing debate subsequently and that, because the standing order could be interpreted in that way, he therefore should dissent from your ruling. I think it is proper to say,  Sir, that  the ruling you gave is the ruling which has been given and which has been understood ever since the Standing Orders were written in 1901. 1 think it is also proper to say not only that the ruling gives an interpretation of the meaning of standing order 64 but also that the ruling is supported by practice. It has been made abundantly clear and has been repeated over and over again during our short history that your interpretation of standing order 64 is the proper one. 
It is interesting to reflect that 'May's Parliamentary Practice' which, of course, comes from the British mother of parliaments, is a long story of parliamentary practice. I would remind the Senate, for instance, that in the mother of parliaments there are something like 80 standing orders. We have 450 standing orders in the Australian Parliament. The British mother of parliaments is built, not necessarily around the 80 standing orders but around parliamentary practice. We in Australia also have parliamentary practice. If one picks up May's Parliamentary Practice' - I think there is one on your desk,  Mr President  - one will find a whole series of rulings that have been given by presiding officers over the years. One will find that 'May's Parliamentary Practice* deals with the interpretation of the procedures of parliament. 
There is no doubt in my mind,  Mr President,  as I am sure there is no doubt in the minds of honourable senators on the Government side, that in the circumstances your ruling on standing order 64 was the proper ruling. If it were not so, why would we need to debate the matter for 3 hours when the resolution was put down? Taking  Senator Cant's  argument to its logical conclusion, one could assume that when the motion to adjourn the Senate until 9.55 a.m. the next morning had .been carried there would be not a 3 hour debate. At that stage there would be an unlimited debate which could go on ad infinitum. That was never the intention. The Standing Orders and parliamentary practice have provided vehicles to enable senators and members of the parliaments of our democracy to discuss matters. Standing order 64 clearly provides a vehicle to enable  a  senator to speak on a matter, the vehicle being the motion that the Senate adjourn until some time which is not the normal time. 
Yesterday and today we had debates on the motion for the first reading of a money Bill during which, as all honourable senators know, they can talk about anything. They can talk about the birds and the bees. They do not have to talk about the appropriation of funds. Yesterday honourable senators were talking about drugs on the motion for the first reading of a money Bill. That has no relationship to an appropriation but it is a form of the Parliament to provide to a senator the right and privilege to raise matters. The same thing applies to standing order 64. It provides that a senator can move for the adjournment of the Senate to a time different from the normal time to enable him to talk about anything which he, supported by 4 members of his Party, or indeed of the Senate, considers to be a matter of urgency. That device to enable such a debate has been written deliberately into standing order 64. To me there is no doubt, as has been demonstrated by the comments that have been made, that ever since we have had a federation and a Federal Parliament we have had a clear understanding in terms of practice of what standing order 64 means. 
Now in this year of grace 1970  -  our bicentenary year - we have come to the situation where an honourable senator says that because in his judgment - an honest judgment, no doubt - standing order 64 could be interpreted in a different way he should dissent from the ruling of the Chair. I would say that the Presiding Officer had no other course open to him but to interpret standing order 64 in the way in which he interpreted it. If we are to enjoy the freedoms that we have in our Parliament which enable honourable senators to speak on matters to which they want to speak and which are not necessarily germane to the discussion current at that time, I believe that it is very desirable, in fact essential, that they should have the opportunity open to them by moving as a matter of urgency that the Senate at its rising adjourn until some time other than the normal time. That is the device that is open to us. That is the procedure that is used. I want to see that preserved in our parliamentary practice. If we were prepared to accept  Senator Cant's  motion of dissent, in my view it would tend to destroy that and to destroy the priceless heritage that we have in the management and conduct of the Parliament of this country. So I say that the Government does not support the motion of dissent, but gives absolute support to the ruling given by you,  Mr President,  from the chair when this matter was dealt with on 6th May. 
Australia is a trading nation, lt will prosper or perish in terms of its capacity to be a trading nation and I could not think of anything more calculated to destroy our trading capacity than the type of philosophy which the honourable senator propounds. Already in question time this morning the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry has explained the present situation in relation to the export of mutton and I would suggest that that explanation given by him covers completely the current position.  Senator O'Byrne  makes his own judgment that there is something sinister in this and therefore we should start cutting off our trade with the United States. This is a form of fantasy which is completely incredible. 
There are elements of this question about which I would need to make inquiries. I do recall that there is a committee which is constantly vigilant and whose purpose it is to discover the order of magnitude of fall-out as affecting the Australian continent. I recall putting clown in this place a report which sets out the facts and implications of these matters. There are other elements of the question about which I would need to make inquiries and [ hope to be able to give the honourable senator a reply by next Tuesday. I think it was yesterday that a question was asked of mc about what representations had been made by the Government. I am also in the process of getting a reply to that question. 
There has been no avoidance on the part of the Government of bringing on this debate. I thought that the Senate, by mutual understanding, was working very hard on the problems of government and our responsibility as a Senate. If the honourable senator likes to sit here Government senators do not mind if we do not have any winter recess at all. We are prepared to sit here and deal with all the matters on the business paper, which include the defence statement. 
I will refer the matter to the Treasurer. 
I suggest to the Senate that it might be appropriate if the Supply Bill (No. 1) 1970-71, which is at present in the first reading stage, were brought up to the second reading stage. Therefore I move: 
That Order of the Day No. 2 be postponed until after consideration of Order of the Day No. 3. 
I think it would be a far more orderly way of dealing with our business to take this Bill to the second reading stage. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
May I speak to that motion? I have had discussions with the Leader of the Australian Labor Party  (Senator Murphy).  It is suggested that the Senate might dispose of the second reading stage of the 2 Supply Bills and then it would be ready to go into Committee. It is not normal to speak on the second reading motion, but I understand 1 Government  speaker  wants to speak on the second reading of the second Supply Bill. Because supply may be an urgent matter on Tuesday and as Tuesday is a very difficult day I have canvassed with  Senator Murphy  whether we might go through the second reading phase of the 2 Supply Bills.In that case I would suggest that  Senator Wilkinson  should not move the adjournment of the second reading. I suggest that we bring the second Supply Bill on and let someone speak to it. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read  a  second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to appropriate moneys to carry on the necessary normal services of the Government during the  first  5 months of the financial year 1970-71. The total amount sought in this Bill is $1,113,002,000 comprising: 

<graphic href="044232197005146_38_0.jpg"></graphic>

The amounts provided represent the estimated requirements for the first 5 months of the financial year ana m respect of most services generally represent approximately five-twelfths of the 1969-70 appropriation. No provision is made for new services. 
An amount of $20,000,000 is sought to enable the Treasurer to make advances which will be recovered within the financial year and to make moneys available to meet expenditure on services of the Government, particulars of which will afterwards be submitted to Parliament. I commend the bill to honourable senators. 
Motion (by  Senator Wilkinson)  proposed: 
That the  debate be  now  adjourned. 
There is no doubt at all that interest rates have been increased. This matter has been discussed in this chamber and the Treasurer has made statements in relation to it. He has made statements in relation to the implications of increased interest rates for the overall economy and he has made statements in relation to the necessity for Australia to be able to borrow long term finance. The finance industry, as the honourable senator describes it, is entitled to express its own views, and the views it has expressed are its own. I do not believe that we should necessarily accept completely or in part its views on what should or should not be done. However, I do not think that we should ignore them. I think that the finance industry is entitled to express its views and it is the responsibility of the Government to consider what it says. But I would not want to be going to the barricades on the basis of what representatives of the finance industry have said or what they are reported in the newspapers to have said. One would need to get the full text of their comments, and I have no doubt that the Treasurer and the Government will examine those comments. They must be examined and weighed against the long term effect on the security and prosperity of this nation. That is the final test in any issues wc may be considering in relation to the interest rate. 
The honourable senator is entering a field that I know to be one of great controversy in the realm of local government, namely, whether councillors should receive an emolument for their services. During my term in local government, apart from the mayor, who received a mayoral allowance which was not taxable because it was an allowance, no councillors received emoluments. We are now living in a world in which, I gather, councillors receive sitting allowances. 
Some do. I was not aware that that income was taxable. I would need to make some inquiries in relation to that But one matter on which I believe we are all on common ground is our recognition of the magnificent work that the third tier of government does in the local government field. I would not make a comment on whether it is wise for councillors to receive allowances; but I certainly will have some inquiries made as to whether what they receive is taxable. 
The honourable senator obviously has become so engrossed with his own Party problems that he has failed to understand the situation of the coalition. The Liberal Party is a national party which finds ils members in this place and in another place not only from the metropolitan and urban areas but also from country constituencies. If one picks up a list of names of honourable senators and honourable members in the Government Parties one will find that the Liberal part of the coalition has quite a representation of members and senators from country areas. The Liberal Party, as part of the coalition, has always had and will continue to have a very real responsibility in its philosophy in relation to the primary industries and matters associated with primary industries in country areas. In all the circumstances it would be a perfectly normal, natural and healthy thing to do for a party organisation to express views in relation to country matters. 1 hope that it will continue to tlo so, and 1 am sure that it will continue to do so, just as I hope, expect and am sure that the coalition parties will continue in coalition. 
I do not know that I have anything further to add to what I said yesterday. I promised to have the honourable senator's question referred to the Minister for External Affairs. I drew attention to the impending talks, in Indonesia, on Cambodia which our Minister for External Affairs will attend and which have been initiated by the Indonesian Foreign Minister. I spoke yesterday about Australia's participation as a member of the United Nations. I said that there was the normal plenary session which is held towards the end of the year and at which Australia will be represented. I indicated yesterday that we have a fully accredited Australian ambassador at the United Nations. Until I receive a reply to the question asked yesterday I do not believe that I can add anything to what I said then. 
The question is so woolly that it is almost beyond understanding. The honourable senator began by trying to put words into my mouth. He suggested that his interpretation of the reason for Australia's presence in Vietnam is my interpretation or the Government's interpretation. Then he introduced into the question the topic of mutton. The question, as presented to me, really does not rate an answer.  Senator Murphy  had a question on notice about Australia's participation in Vietnam. I gave a reply to that question and it appears in Hansard. The initial part of  Senator Wheeldon's  question is completely unrelated to the final part which refers to the import of Australian mutton into the United States of America. 
As the honourable senator knows, I am not responsible for the answer. I act as the Treasurer's representative in this place. I had the question processed to get an answer for the honourable senator. I regret that he does not consider that the answer supplied is an adequate answer to his question. I will have it resubmitted and will point out that he does not consider the answer is an adequate one to his original question. I hope that if possible a supplementary answer will be provided which will satisfy him on the issues he has raised. 
This matter comes within the portfolio of the Treasurer. I would have thought that the Treasurer has accepted the responsibility, of explaining the reasons for the recent increases in interest rates. I shall put the honourable senator's question to the Prime Minister, but my personal judgment is that the Treasurer has, by way of statements in the Parliament, in the Press and in public during more recent times, explained the reasons for the increased interest rates. I repeat that the increases are fundamentally built around the economic security and prosperity of Australia. I believe that this fact has been made abundantly clear. It is a normal, healthy process to have people commenting about the fact that certain side effects are stemming from these increases. This is in accordance with the way in which we live and the way our democratic processes operate. However, I shall bring to the attention of the Prime Minister that part of the honourable senator's question concerning whether further publicity should be given to the reasons for the increased interest rates and, if so, whether that publicity should be given by the Prime Minister himself. 
I do not know the basis for the statistics of the Leader of the Opposition. The expression 'hundreds of thousands' is a nice round one. However, it does not register with me. I shall treat the question asked by the Leader of  the Opposition as being supplementary to the question asked by  Senator Greenwood  concerning the need for a more detailed explanation of the economic theories involved in the recent increase in interest rates in Australia. No doubt the points whi ch the Leader of the Opposition made will receive consideration if the Government decides to make a further public statement. 
A notice of motion relating to the question of sitting times appears on the notice paper in my name. It is in 2 parts. The first part is a proposal that, commencing from next week, we should sit on Fridays. The second part proposes that, commencing next week and for the remainder of the present period  of sittings, Government Businesstakes precedence of General Business after 8 p.m. on Thursdays. 
Following discussions that were held in this place yesterday and questions that were asked, I indicated that the leaders - the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy),  the Leader of the Australian Democratic Labor Party  (Senator Gair)  and I - and the Whips would be having discussions about times of sitting. We had discussions this morning. The Whips will be taking the matter up with the various members of the parties, with some regard to the work load that we expect to some forward. It has been put to me that I should deal with the notice of motion in 2 parts. I am perfectly happy to do that, but I will need the leave of the Senate.I therefore ask for leave to deal with the notice of motion forthwith in 2 parts. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
-I move: 
That unless otherwise ordered, from 19 May until the end of the present period of sittings, the days and times of meeting of the Senate, agreed upon on 7 May, include Fridays, from 10 a.m. until 1 p.m. and from 2 p.m. until 4 p.m., and that the Sessional Order relating to the adjournment of the Senate have effect at 4 p.m. on Fridays. 
I propose to speak to that motion, but most of what I say in relation to it will have pertinence to the second part of the notice of motion. We have not been sitting on Fridays up to the present time. We certainly will not sit tomorrow. Because the Senate receives its business from another place and it is not the initiating House in the normal sense, our work programme is governed largely by the amount of work that comes to us from the other place. Although a number of matters appear on the business paper, a fair and long term appreciation of those items is that until now they have been within our compass without sitting on a Friday. However I think it is necessary also to study the business paper of the other place and to make an assessment of the Bills that are to come to us. Bearing in mind the suggested date in June for the end of this session, it seems abundantly clear that by the time we resume on Tuesday next we will have a significant work load on our business paper. 
At present the Health Bill is being debated in the other place. I understand that debute is expected to end tonight. It is a fairly big Bill. 1 anticipate that smaller Bills will also be on our business paper by way of message by Tuesday next. For that reason 1 believe as Leader of the Government in the Senate that we should, commencing next week, sit on Friday from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. and from 2 p.m. to 4 p.m. I am informed that because of the requirements of members of the other place who travel to the southern States, notably Tasmania, aircraft timetables have been adjusted to accommodate a parliamentary rising time of 4 p.m. on Fridays. If the schedule proves to be a little tight I believe that the Party Whips could arrange that honourable senators who wish to catch an aircraft departing at 4.25 p.m. would be allowed to do so. 
I do not wish to make a long speech aboutthi s matter. Everybody is familiar with the problem. We have reached a stage where the work load requires that we sit on Fridays during the hours I have indicated, commencing not tomorrowbut on the following Friday and continuing that practice for the remainder of the autumn session. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I move: 
That, from 21 May until the end of the present period of sittings, Government Business take precedence of General Business after 8 p.m. on Thursdays. 
I thank the Senate for its co-operation in dealing with my previous motion. Much of whatI said in relation to that motion is applicable, or I anticipate will be applicable, to this motion. As I have indicated, I have had discussions with Party Leaders. They have expressed reservations about this motion and I would be prepared to defer it until next Tuesday, at which time I am completely confident that what I have said will reveal itself on the business paper. On the other hand I think it is essential that Government business should take precedence commencing next week if we are to get through the work load. 
In the spirit in which we operate in the Senate, if it is thought that there is. some doubt about what I have said, I am prepared to defer putting my motion to the vote until next Tuesday. I would not want again to give notice of motion because 1 want all honourable senators to appreciate that it is the Government's intention that Government business should take precedence on tha coming Thursday nights. Senators prepare speeches in anticipation of debates when General Business is conducted on a Thursday night. The type of argument I have used in relation to future Friday sittings will apply with equal force to our sittings next week when the work load of Government Business will justify its taking precedence on a Thursday night. 
 I move: That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to obtain parliamentary authority for expenditure for which provision was not made in the Appropriation Act (No. 1) 1969-70. The total appropriations sought in this Bill amount to $90,053,000. The various items included in this Bill can be considered in detail in Committee and I propose at this stage to refer only to some of the major provisions. 
The additional requirement for departmental salaries is $22m and includes provision for increases in salaries arising from the 1969 national wage case and other arbitration determinations, reclassification of offices and additional staff. Further approriations totalling $13. 5m are required for departmental administrative expenses including$2.1m for overseas representation, $1.6m for rents, real estate management and surveys and $lm for additional capital for The Papua and New Guinea Development Bank. Additional appropriations amounting to $23.7m for departmental other services include$1. 5 m for the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, $4.4m for embarkation and passage costs for migrants, $2. 2m for the Australian Broadcasting Commission, $1.6m for war and service pensions and allowances, $1.4m for other repatriation benefits,$5m for the shipbuilding division of the Department of Shipping and Transport, $1.3m for grants under the Aged Persons Homes Act and$1.1m for remission of taxes and fines under special circumstances. 
Additional appropriations totalling $30.8m are sought for defence Services, including approximately $20m for increases in Service pay and allowances and increases in salaries of civilian staff. However it is expected that there will be equivalent savings in other appropriations due mainly to rephasing of equipment orders, lags in delivery of stores and equipment, delays in the construction of naval ships and in the construction of storage accommodation and other facilities. It is therefore expected that total expenditure from the Consolidated Revenue Fund and Loan Fund on defence Services in 1969-70 will not exceed the Budget estimate. The additional appropriations being sought in this Bill are not to be taken as an indication that actual expenditure will exceed the appropriations in Appropriation Act (No. 1) 1969-1970 to the extent of the full $90,053,000 as it is expected that there will be an offset of approximately$42m because of savings in expenditure under other appropriations in that Act. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Wilkinson)  adjourned. 
I thank the Senate for the passage of this Bill through its second reading stage and for the contributions that have been made.  Senator Wilkinson,  leading for the Opposition, said that his Party supported the Bill but nevertheless believed that it should put down an amendment which expressed concern in relation to the limitations of the proposals and the problems that still remain, the Bill notwithstanding. I think that would probably be a fair summing up of the amendment. I will refer to it again only very briefly in a moment because I believe that the Senate is of a will to pass this legislation. The overwhelming burden of the debate is that nobody is in favour of death duties and I do not suppose that I would be any different from anybody else. I was intrigued to hear  Senator Prowse  say that a certain gentleman had so many signatures in a certain time in support of the abolition of death duties. The moment of truth comes to us all and there would not be much difficulty in getting signatures on a petition of that nature. 
That is right. But it is a fact of life that the Government gets its revenue and it has commitments. If it does not get its revenue from one field of taxation it has of necessity to get it in another. There is nothing historically new about death duties. One can go to the Bible and see passages which could almost be interpreted as references to death duties. I am informed that we have had them in our legislation since 1914 so this is not some new form of tax that we are imposing. But I accept the message that I should convey to the Government, and I am sure that the Government hardly needs me to convey the message that nobody really is happy at the obligation to pay death duties. 
It all depends on whether one reads the Old Testament or the New Testament. I am not a very good biblical student. Somebody said: 'You always have to be careful of the devil quoting Scripture'. The main burden of the debate has been, of course, that whilst everybody welcomes the Bill so far as it goes everybody would say: 'Good so far, but really we want it to be done in a greater degree in the future if possible'.  Senator Webster  suggested that we should ensure that when the Bill becomes law it will get the widest possible publicity. I think this is right. It is desirable that wherever possible where a new variation of the law applies it is the duty and the responsibility of the Taxation Branch to see that the application of it is effective and that nobody who is entitled to a benefit is denied it. I think this applies and has always applied in the past.  Senator Byrne  suggested that the Opposition's amendment might be varied but with or without that variation the Government does not accept the amendment. The amendment alludes to the effect of Federal and State death duties, and as we all live by the Federal system we understand that the existence of State duties is not a matter which comes within the responsibility of the Commonwealth. 
It is a fact, of course, that the application of the duty is not so heavy at the Commonwealth level as at the State level. It is true that there may be difficulties and the Bill goes some distance towards meeting them. There is a problem of providing funds to meet liabilities on death and I think the Bill goes a certain distance in relation to that. The amendment does refer, of course, to the difficulties inherent when the duty is imposed by the States as well as the Commonwealth. Incidentally, the revenue is of the order of $62m and this variation in exemption from $20,000 to $24,000 is a variation of 20%.  Senator Byrne  talked in terms of a 50% variation in the exemption rate. But the $62m is collected from right across the community - from businessmen, farmers and primary producers. This concession will cost revenue an amount of the order of $5m which, when related to the amount of $62m, is about 8% if my mathematics are correct. So the rural industries in this instance will get a tax concession because everybody will receive the concession. It will be of the order of 8% of the totality of death duties which in one piece of legislation is a quite a concession. 

 Senator Prowse referred to the incidence on people in primary industry as a section of the community. I really believe that this piece of legislation which incidentally will take effect from September 1969, in the variation from $20,000 to $24,000 and in the additional concessions being given is quite a significant contribution to a solution to the problems of rural industry. Honourable senators have used the forms of this place to advocate some necessary concessions in this field.  Senator Prowse  is one that I recall. The Bill sets out to give a special concession to primary industry, having regard to and in recognition of the problems of primary industry, in terms of a variation from $20,000 to $24,000. That is a significant variation in relation to other estates in the community on which probate has to be assessed. I do not want to develop the matter any further because, apart from the amendment which may be varied and on which we probably will have a vote, and irrespective of the outcome of that vote, I believe that we are all as one in saying: 'This is a good Bill'. Some may say that it does not go far enough but it is a good Bill and should enjoy the support of the Senate. 
I suppose that it would be rare for the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  and I to be tending to speak in the same direction in relation to an amendment of this nature. I want to make it clear that I hold views on the amendment which, in the ultimate, approximate his, but I hold them probably for different reasons. In my reply to the second reading debate I brought out the fact that the whole burden of the debate related to the question of death duties. I probably failed to say in response to representations put to me that after legislation has been put into operation the Government looks at it and has regard to the application of it. The Government has to look constantly at the possible need in the fullness of time, for extension of the application of a Bill. Having regard to the debate in this place, the Treasury, as the representative of the Government in this instance, very properly will be looking at the points of view expressed by various honourable senators. That is one thing. 
But let me put this to the mover of this amendment,  Senator Byrne:  I would not like to see this statement tagged on as part  of  the motion for the third reading of the Bill. 
 That  is  right. I believe that it would tend to take away  some of  the value of the Bill which we are  passing  and to which, to either a limited or maximum degree, we are giving support. 
The Bill has gone  so  far, but the honourable senator proposes to add to the motion for the third reading  a  statement that it has not gone far enough. 
The Senate has carried that by resolution. This proposed amendment will have to go to a vote. I oppose the amendment moved by the Opposition at the second reading stage, which has now been carried. I oppose this proposal  in  a different context because I believe that it tends to detract from the merit of the Bill and to move into another area. 
That is fanenough. That is your judgment. But I am expressing the view that I would not want to see it carried and I would not want the point to be pressed. I would also be reluctant to be forced to resist it, but I believe that it would not be right in this context to make this addition at the third reading stage. I think that the forms of the House can be used in another way on this issue. I do not think that  Senator Byrne  would have any difficulty in getting overwhelming support, even from Ministers if the question was taken in isolation, but to make an addition to this Bill which is granting large concessions is I think inclined to weaken the character and construction of the Bill. 

 Senator McMANUS (Victoria) (4.41] - Frankly, I. am astounded at the flurry that seems to have occurred over a simple proposition which we have asked the Government to examine in relation to federal estate duty. Surely Government supporters are not such timid, shrinking violets that they will be upset in doing so. The Constitution will not be upset. Surely members of the Australian Labor Party are not such timid, shrinking violets that they will suddenly be upset by our saying to the Government: We have already carried an amendment in regard to this matter and we think you ought to have a look at the whole field.' That is what a government is for. If people in either House feel that the Government ought to have a look at a particular field of legislation, what is wrong with making that request, particularly in view of some of the statements that I have heard from both sides of the chamber about the present unsatisfactory situation? 
The Minister for Trade and Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The following table shows allocations of overseas exchange which I am informed have been authorised since 1962-63 for the purchase of films for television programme material and for other exhibition purposes. Statistics are not available for payments to individual countries. However, the undermentioned payments to the sterling area and non-sterling area would be predominantly for material of United Kingdom and United States of America origin respectively. 
The answer shows that of the $86.6m spent abroad for the purchase of films for use on television $ 17.6m worth came from the sterling area and $69m worth came from the non-sterling areas between the fiscal years 1962-63 and 1968-69. Of the $53. lm spent on films for other exhibition purposes films costing $2. 8m came from the sterling area and films costing $50. 3m came from the non-sterling areas. I do not say all this money would have been saved had the Government taken action earlier, but certainly a great proportion of it would have been saved. Certainly a lot of Australian talent would not have had to go abroad to make their skills known to the world and a lot 15360/70 -  S.  - (6il more talent would have been developed in this country much earlier. 
I intend raising one or two matters about the Bill in the Committee stage. Despite very little assistance from governments a film industry exists in Australia because of the determination and dedication of a number of Australians. The Australian Film Council which is established in Sydney set out in its newsletter published in February this year a number of films which have been made or which are, as it were, on the drawing board. The newsletter says this: 
Whilst it is sad to report at the beginning of 1970 there is no indigenous feature film production, one local co-production is now before the cameras, NLT-Group Wy 'Wake in Fright', but alas, nothing to follow. However, several features made here in the last year will be released within weeks of each other. NLT's 'Squeeze a Flower' is premiered this month, with Warner Bros-Seven Arts 'Adam's Woman' ('Return of the Boomerang') having its world premiere here in March. Goldsworthy's 'Colour me Dead' and That Lady from Peking' are ready and Mawson Continental's 'The Set' opens this month too whilst Tony Richardson's 'Ned Kelly' is eagerly awaited this June. Meanwhile, 'Age of Consent' and Skippy and the Intruders' are keeping summer audiences happy right round Australia. It is interesting to note that 'Age of Consent' is rated thirteenth most popular film screened in Sydney during 1969. 
I mention these matters to show that there are people in this industry or connected with it who have had faith in their own ability to make films of a reasonably high quality. 
A flourishing film industry in Australia will employ talented Australian writers, artists, directors, actors, musicians and technicians. 
I certainly agree with those remarks, but the mere passage of this legislation and the successful functioning of the Australian Film Development Corporation will not make the film industry in Australia a flourishing one. Other things have to be done quickly if there is to be a successful, continual production industry in Australia. As I said earlier, $lm is niggardly enough when compared with amounts made available by other countries. For instance, the British Film Finance Corporation which was established as far back as 1948 was funded with an amount of 5m sterling. Canada founded its corporation in the early 1960s with an amount of about $Can10m. In addition to making substantial sums of money available at the foundation stages of the corporations those 2 governments did something else which will also have to be done in Australia so far as television and film importations are concerned. Those government*; not only established a strict indigenous quota, they also imposed a foreign quota. In Great Britain the foreign quota was 14%. I think in Canada at that time it was about 30% or 40%. By taking such action both countries were able to say to those who were wanting to sell programmes in Great Britain and Canada for both television and film purposes: 'Well, you can sell 10 to us if you take 2 of ours.' It was with this imported foreign quota arrangement that these countries were able to get their Canadian films and British films effectively on to the world markets, particularly in the United States and Japan. This is how Great Britain and Canada have built up their industries. I certainly believe this has to be done here. 
Let me refer to paragraph 100 of the report from the Senate Select Committee on the Encouragement of Australian Productions for Television which was tendered to the Senate in 1964. I quote in full the paragraph dealing with the early history of the Australian film industry because it is interesting, lt states:  100. The rise and fall of the Australian film industry is a melancholy spectacle for contemplation by Australians. One often hears it said that 
Australia can never make films', and that the business of film making is- 'best left to those countries (meaning the United States of America who can do it better than we can". The Committee rejects the sentiments so expressed, lt is not generally known that Australia produced the world's first motion picture ('Soldiers of the Cross' in 1901), that from the beginning of the century until the immediate post-World War I years Australia was one of the leading producers in the world of full length ('feature') films, that no less than 198 full-length 'feature' films were made in and exported by Australia during that period and that these films were made by Australian artists, directors and producers. 
Wilh the advent of sound and the 'takeover' of Australian cinemas . . . 
This is the point that I just referred to in answer to the  Senator Mulvihills  interjection -   . . by American interests, the industry virtually collapsed, lt has remained in  state of near extinction ever since. In recent years. Australian studios have produced less than one feature film per year. They still produce some of the best documentary films in the world; but if it were nol for the directive issued by the Government in I9f&gt;0 whereby the importation of advertising commercials was virtually prohibited, the film industry would now be extinct. This directive has virtually the effect of a quota. These facts are mentioned lo emphasise the point that this country has already demonstrated that it can make world quality films and export them and the only reason why it did noi continue to do so is that the industry was left unprotected and squeezed out of business by an overseas industry which was heavily protected in its own country. 
Just recently I have been in correspondence with an internationally famous film producer who now resides in Western Australia, namely  Mr Sydney  Box, whose productions could be seen practically every day of the week in the 1940s and 1950s in any cinema that one went to throughout the world. Since the advent of television he has had a great number of successes in this medium. 
He is the man who produced- by way of illustration - 'Diary of a Drop Out', 'The Seventh Veil'. 'The Prisoner', 'Astonished Heart' and a number of others. As I say, he is now living in retirement in Western Australia. In correspondence he has exchanged with me he has suggested that to be able to run a viable film industry Australia should have a home production of not less than 10 feature films per annum and that these should all be produced in colour because the eventual residual rights for television programmes, particularly in the United States, demand the use of colour and are too valuable to ignore here. 
He suggested that an amount of Si 5m should be made available to a corporation of the type envisaged by the Government, $7. 5m to be provided by film distributors, S4.5m by the Film Development Corporation and S3m by the producers of the pictures and their associates. But he has set out for me the steps that are taken in Britain so far as the National Film Finance Corporation and those who are making approaches to the Corporation are concerned and the manner in which the British Film Corporation has been successful. In the realisation that these matters will be of interest to the proposed corporation when it is established I intend to place these matters on the record. He states: 
Step 1 
The producer goes to a distributor who agrees to distribute the film world wide for a commission, which varies from 20% to 25% of the gross receipts in the home market to higher figures overseas. In exchange for this the distributor provides 50% (occasionally more) of the budget in the form of a guarantee, necessarily discountable, that the takings of the film will reach that figure (50% of budget) within 18 months of release, or that he will make up the short fall if there should be one. This guarantee is discounted by a bank, which expects interest normally at 1% lo 2% over the current bank rate. The distributor, in addition to his commission, receives 20% to 25% of the net profits of the film in return for his contribution to the financing. 
Once these financial arrangements have been negotiated step 2 comes into play. He says in this regard: 
The producer goes to the National Film Finance Corporation - in Australia this would be ideally the Australian Film Development Corporation - who, subject to the approval of the script etc., provide 30% of the budget by way of a secured loan (in second position behind the distributor, who has the first charge on receipts) and expect to receive 30% to 35% of the profits for so doing. 
Step 3 
The producer (or production company) provides the remaining 20% of the budget either i'n cash, or partly in cash and partly in deferment or reinvestment of a proportion of the fees of the producer, director and actors working on the picture. Since the production group is taking the greatest risk, it also takes the highest share of the profit, 40% to 50%. 
He states that on a visualised 3-year programme of 30 films one would therefore need an amount of roughly S15m per annum to get Australian films effectively onto the world market. At the moment - I now come to the point raised by  Senator Webster  by way of interjection - there is supposed to be a revolution going on in television in Australia.  Mr Bruce  Gyngell, a senior executive with Channel 7 in Sydney, and who was with Channel 9 at one time, has been engaging himself and the station for which he works in what is known as a television revolution. One station is outdoing the other, but principally by the purchase of overseas programmes. One station, of course, starts the rat race and another station has to join. I am told that Channel 7 has set aside some millions of dollars this financial year for the purchase of overseas programmes, and if that is so for one station how much is it going to be all told? 
When one bears in mind that in the last 6 years Australia has spent $140m abroad on the purchase of programmes for film and television distribution I suggest that the $lm now being made available by this Government for the establishment of an Australian Film Development Corporation is niggardly enough. But let us face it. The greater the number of Australian shows that there are on television the greater are the numbers of writers, actors, artists and technicians employed and if our people's talents are to be developed continuity of production, continuity of writing and continuity of performance are required for them most of all. Therefore I urge the Government, in conjunction with the legislation which is now introduced, to put stringent quotas on imported programmes so that more Australian programmes produced in Australia, and which will be assisted to be produced as a result of this legislation, can get onto commercial television stations or into the Australian cinemas. 
Certainly the Government should also legislate to prohibit the package deals that go on in connection with the purchase of films from abroad. 1 am told by those connected with the industry that if one wants a very good production to be shown in Australia - say, a film like 'Gone with the Wind' - one cannot purchase only that film but must purchase 5 or 6 others in a whole package at an inflated price, the result being that costs rise astronomically. Those films in the package that were nol wanted in the first instance are offloaded onto less effective commercial stations - probably, in the main, country commercial stations. Because of the inflated price - certainly stations are business enterprises having to work within a budget - they have available less lime and money for Australian productions. 
The Australian public as well as Australian writers and performers have been getting the rough end for a long lime. I suggest that the most important role the Corporation can play is as a distributor because, to be successful, it will have to break through the international cartel which has been developed and to which I referred in part when I read from the report of the Senate Select Committee. 1 hope too that as time goes on and more money becomes available, the Corporation will engage itself in obtaining adequate studio facilities and equipment which it will own and hire to producers iti the industry. 
There are 2 other matters to which 1 should like to refer briefly. One is that the Corporation, in determining whether :t shall make ;i loan, should not consider itself or set itself up to be a censorship authority by refusing assistance to a production on the grounds of bias politically, religiously or racially. Provided that a production is of high quality and the corporation is satisfied that the production can .sell effectively in Australia and abroad, and money is available for the production of the film, the money should be made available by the Corporation. In my opinion, and in the opinion of the Opposition, the Corporation should be composed of men who know the industry and what appeals to the general public. We want people of expertise who are anxious to do something for Australia. They will have to be fair to those who seek assistance because I am sure that the Sim will not be enough to meet all the demands which will be made upon the Corporation. The task ahead of t. hose who are appointed is a great and responsible one. While we remain in Opposition we of the Labor movement will continue to watch their activities with an encouraging but nonetheless critical scrutiny because, in the interests of Australia, the film and television industry must get oil the ground. 
I have indicated already that in the Committee stage [ will be moving an amendment in the same terms as that which was moved in another place. It will provide that persons who have a pecuniary interest in the business of making, distributing or exhibiting films will not necessarily be precluded from appointment to the Corporation. I shall be dealing with a number of other matters in the Committee stage of the Bill. I indicate now that we do not propose it. We say. however, that it is a case of better late than never. We would have hoped that the amount made available to the Corporation would have been larger than it is, but at least at long last the foundation stone has been laid and we sincerely trust that, as a result of the activities of the Corporalion, there will be continuity of work for Australian artists, writers, producers and technicians. 
The honourable senator asks me whether I have knowledge of a meeting that was held some time last night. I have no knowledge of such a meeting. 
I repeat that the part of  Senator Keeffe's  question which suggested that there had been some extraordinary discussions between this Government and the DLP in relation to nuclear weapons is sheer nonsense and humbug. 
 An announcement dealing with this matter was made recently. I think it would be proper for me to obtain the details of the announcement which was made, and I hop? to get those details before question time ends. That information will cover with precision the announcement that was made. 
All I say in response to the question is that discussions are taking place, and have been taking place for a considerable time, between the governments on this matter. 
I wish to inform the Senate that the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Lynch)  left Australia on 16th May for Europe. As the Minister Assisting the Treasurer he will lead the Australian delegation to the meeting of the Ministerial Council of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development which is being held in Paris between 20th and 22nd May. After the meeting in Paris the Minister will visit Britain, Eire, West Germany, Switzerland, Italy, Greece, Malta, the United States of America and Canada to discuss with the governments concerned problems and other matters relating to the immigration programme. The Minister is expected to return to Australia on 3rd July. During his absence the Minister for Housing,  (Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin)  will be Acting Minister for Immigration. The Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Snedden)  will represent the Acting Minister in the other place. 
I make the point that the Minister for External Affairs has only just arrived back from the Djakarta conference, and quite properly- 
Will the honourable senator please be quiet? 
I will get the information that the honourable senator -requests and pass it to him as quickly as possible. 
I think there was a reference in the second reading speech that an additional requirement for departmental salaries of $22m includes provision for increases for salaries arising from the 1969 national wage case and other arbitration determinations. It went on to say, and I think this is the point the honourable senator is thinking about: Reclassifica tion of officers and additional staff' - and that was the point that was made in the second reading speech. 
This question was asked in a slightly different way last week when it was directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration. The answer to the question now is still the same as it was then, that it is not and never has been the practice to give explanations or reasons in justification of a visa being refused. That is not a policy which has originated with this Government; it is a policy which has been in existence ever since our immigration programme started. 
Quite obviously, the first thing to do is to obtain the statements to which the honourable senator has referred and have an analysis made of them. Until they are made available to me and 1 can have an analysis made of them I am not in a position to give an intelligent and comprehensive answer to his question. 
A little earlier today at a very important and very good official luncheon which was held to welcome the Prime Minister of Canada reference was made to the question of future co-operation between Australia and Canada. I think we would all be as one in our desire that Australia and Canada should co-operate in the future, i do not think 1 can add anything to the words which were spoken at the luncheon by the Prime Minister of Australia, the  Deputy  Prime Minister, the Leader of the Opposition in the other place and the Prime Minister of Canada. 
As to the second part of the question about an opportunity being made available in the Senate to discuss the merits of that proposal, I can say only that the control and time-table of the Senate is ultimately in the hands of the Senate itself. I am the Leader of the Government in the Senate and we have a legislative programme which we hope to conclude in a reasonable time. I hope that within that time an opportunity can be made available for the type of discussion the Leader of the Opposition suggests. 
I am not aware of a proposed visit by a South African cricket team and I would decline to suggest to the Government that it should intervene in any proposed tour of Australia. I express my personal view when I say that when politics intrude into sport it is a disaster for sport. 
My answer to a previous question was in complete agreement with the statement contained in  Senator McManus's  question. I recall I. said that when politics intrude into sport it is disastrous for sport. For that reason I agree entirely with the proposition inherent in the honourable senator's question. 
Earlier during question time  Senator Cant  asked me a question about interest rates and a figure of 8% was mentioned. I said that I would seek some information about. the Press statement that was made.I gather that this question was built around a Press article in the 'Canberra Times' by an economist or some other writer making some calculations and hypothecating certain interest rates. The article was not based upon any statement made by the Government, the Treasurer or a bank. It was, as I say, a question based on a hypothesis in some Press article which related to some calculations made by an economist or journalist as to what the interest rate would be on a loan of $8,000. Therefore it is not a proper basisfor a question in relation to government. 
The honourable senator's question which relates to wallabies was directed to me. Normally questions in relation to kangaroos or wallabies are not directed to the Leader of the Government. Quite clearly this matter is within the responsibility of the State Government. I suggest that representations be made to that Government if the honourable senator has a view to express on this matter. 
For a person who has had experience in 2 Parliaments I suggest that this question is singularly inappropriate. When I said that I chose to answer by saying that the governments were having discussions about this matter I thought that would have been an appropriate reply. The simple fact is that in negotiations it is not a matter of one person making a decision. 'Negotiations' means, as I have said and as everyone well understands, with the obvious exception of  Senator Turnbull,  that there are discussions between groups or parties. I am sorry to have to teach the honourable senator the politics of the thing, but a Minister does not give answers at question time in Parliament relating to negotiations. At this time a Minister will announce decisions that have been reached. The simple fact is that I shall give no further information additional to that which I gave in reply to the earlier question. As to the future work load of the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation, that is another matter and an entirely different matter. Certain honourable senators have put questions to me in the past and 1 have given extensive answers pointing out the problems not only of the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation but also of the Government Aircraft Factories and Hawker de Havilland Australia Pty Ltd. This is an important matter on which one cannot give a simple answer to a question in the form in which this one was asked. I am happy to be able to say that as a result of negotiations in the last couple of days I have issued a Press release advising that the Boeing company has placed a modest order which includes provision for the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation, lt is only a modest beginning, but at least it is a beginning on the question of flow back from our overseas contracts. I will be happy to send a copy of that Press statement to  Senator Turnbull. 
I suggest that the first part of the honourable senator's question be placed on the notice paper for a reply to be furnished by the Minister for National Development. As to the second part of his question, I suggest that it is sheer nonsense. 
I have no need or desire to change what I said about the introduction of politics into sport. As to the rest of the question, I have not been informed and 1 am not aware of any suggestion such as that made by the honourable senator about a wonderful Australian girl who has done magnificently in tennis competitions in her tender years. 
I confine my activities to politics. I do not want to profess any professional know-how in the field of medicine. 1 would not want to make any comment as to what I believe would be the end result of a physical or mental examination of senators or- members of another place. I reserve my own opinions on that matter. 
On 15th April,  Senator Wilkinson  asked me the following question without notice: 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Is any examination being conducted of the possibility of increasing the value of the Commonwealth superannuation unit which has not been varied for IS years although the cost of living has increased greatly over that period? 
I then undertook to have the question examined. The Treasurer has provided the following answer: 
An increase in the value of the Commonwealth superannuation unit is not the only method by which superannuation entitlement may be increased. Over the years, the Government has taken a number of other steps that, among other things, take into account the effect of changes in prices on Commonwealth superannuation entitlements. 
Broadly, the position now is as follows: contributors' unit entitlements and contributions rise automatically  as  salaries increase; after retirement, the levels of existing pensions are examined by the Government, usually at Budget time each year, and increases are granted from time to time. 
On the last three occasions on which existing pensions were increased - in 1961, 1963 and 1967 - the notional salary method was used. Speaking broadly, under this- method, the Commonwealth's or employer's share of pension being paid at a selected date, for example, 30th June 1967 for the 1967 increases, is increased to the amount that would have been payable had the pensioner retired on that date and not the date of his actual retirement. 
The Superannuated Commonwealth Officers' Association and the Council of  Commonwealth Public Service Organisations has supported the notional salary method of adjusting existing pensions. 
in reply - I take the opportunity to reply to  Senator Wilkinson  about interest rates, on which questions have been asked and answers given, and also about the matter of programme budgeting which has been raised by  Senator Webster.  Those matters are under- study by the Treasury at present. 
Statements have been made about that. In advance of the Budget season, 1 would not presume to make any comments about it. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
The appropriations, the subject of this Bill, are for the financial year ending 30th June 1970. This Bill postulates expenditure under a whole series of headings. In this instance we are talking about the estimates for the Department of Civil Aviation, which total approximately $4,100,000. This expenditure is broken up under a whole series of headings, as follows: Administrative and Operational - 1. Salaries and Payments; 2. Administrative expenses - and then items numbered from 01 to 19. In. Division 172, Development of Civil Aviation, the items are numbered from 03 to 06.  Senator Cavanagh  says to the Committee, having regard to something which happened last Friday, that until the Senate obtains satisfaction in terms of this appropriation it should choose not to pass the appropriation for the Department of Civil Aviation. 
I sat here very quietly and listened to the point the honourable senator made.  His  speech was more a contribution to a second reading debate than a debate dealing with the estimates of the Department of Civil Aviation. But he made his point. I suggest to him that there is no answer to be given in dealing with these appropriations today. The- honourable senator should use the forms of the House as he did at question time in relation to this matter. 
To suggest that the Senate should refuse appropriation to the Department of Civil Aviation because of a flight last Friday which in his judgment was improper, is a completely wrong approach when dealing with these appropriations. The honourable senator asked questions today and the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  gave answers. The Minister has told me, and I think he said in his reply to the questions, that he would obtain further information. I suggest that  Senator Cavanagh  has made the point which he wants to make in relation to the appropriation for the Department of Civil Aviation. Whatever money was expended will not be reflected in the total of S4.ini because that is a totality of the appropriation for the year ending 30th June 1970. One cannot pick up this Appropriation Bill and say that because some hundreds of dollars were spent on a flight on Friday, 16th May, that can be linked with these estimates. I am sure the honourable senator realises this. He has used the forms of the Committee. That is fair enough. I suggest that now the matter is in the corner of the Minister for Civil Aviation and at an appropriate time he will give a considered response to what the honourable senator has said. I do not think the honourable senator is really arguing that the Senate should refuse to pass the appropriation of $4.1m for the year 1st July 1969 to 30th June 1970. It would be completely inappropriate for him to do so. 
I find some difficulty in that question because the normal function of the Department of Civil Aviation is to fly aircraft. It would be represented in the whole multiplicity of these amounts. For instance, it would be represented under Salaries and Allowances. It could be represented in fuel and lubricating oils. It could be represented in search and rescue and fire services. The whole of a single flight would never appear in the estimates. 
Let me answer this, lt is a fair question. The honourable senator is seeking to find out where a flight would be represented in the estimates. 
My departmental advisers fell me that it would be found under item 10, search and rescue and fire services. That would probably be the line in which it would appear.  Senator Cavanagh  at. question time and now has raised a question of procedure and administration. 1 have no doubt he will obtain an answer in the fullness of time. 
 I just want to come back to the point because, first of all, it has to be abundantly clear that these are additional appropriations and in dealing with the appropriations of a great country one would not have a separate line item for a particular flight.  Senator Cavanagh  recognises that. He recognises that the cost of that flight would be reflected in a whole series of items. He has the forms of the Senate at his disposal if he wants to seek information from a Minister, but it is not to be found in these estimates. These are additional appropriations until 30th June. The proposed appropriations for the Department of Supply will come up at Budget time in August. We will have the situation for the previous 12 months as against the situation for the ensuing 12 months. This is a holding situation to enable us to have the funds necessary for Government requirements until 30th June. The honourable senator has made his point. It is up to him to use the forms of the Senate in some other way if he will but I do not think that the answer is in this appropriation. 
I should like to say one thing, if I may, which does not cut off the debate in the Committee stage. We are dealing with an Appropriation Bill and again  Senator Turnbull  has made points in the form of a speech that we could expect to be made on the second reading or the third reading of a Bill. I plead with the Committee not to allow the Committee stage of these short term Appropriation 
Bills to degenerate into a full debate on any department because this is not the purpose in dealing with this appropriation. 
An honourable senator can ask about item 07 - administrative expenses - which might be $737,000 or $568,000 - or about any other item and get answers relating to that. I did not interrupt  Senator Turnbull  because 1 know that there is a tendency to get into a debate of this type, but we must not allow Committee consideration of the Appropriation Bill to degenerate into a second reading climate. The honourable senator has other forms of the House that he. can use to deal with the subject he has raised. I ask honourable senators to try to keep to the field of the Appropriation Bill. 
I did see a Press report to the effect that the honourable senator has indicated. As for commenting upon it, I think that the proper thing to do is for the honourable senator to put his question on notice. 
I have not had the advantage of seeing the article, apparently in today's Melbourne 'Age'., to which the honourable senator has referred. I will take the opportunity to look at it later in the afternoon. I do not depart from my very brief observation of yesterday. lt reflected a personal belief which  I  have always held. I believe that sport is for sportsmen and politics for politicians. 1 have always held the view - it is a personal view and I do not shrink from it - that it would be a sad day when politics was allowed to intrude into sport. 1 am a lilywhite so far as sports are concerned. I do not believe in professional sport. 1 believe in sport for sport's sake. As to the rest of the question I will, as f have said, seek the article to which the honourable senator has referred and read it. 
Fill AIRCRAFT 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is, of course, that this matter was touched off, shall we say, by the acquisition of Boeing aircraft by Australian operators. The principle which was originally enunciated by  Sir Allen  Fairhall when he was Minister for Defence was that a very real look should be had at the possibility of turnback orders for the Australian aircraft industry, lt will be recalled that a delegation of Australian industrialists went to the United States of America for the purpose of propounding this principle. In the event representatives of the Boeing company came to Australia and I and departmental officers had interviews with them. The representatives of Boeing visited the various factories and a number of packages was made up. The representatives said that they believed that, within their requirements, there would be a possibility for the Australian industry to tender for sub-contract work. 
Boeing has now accepted tenders for subcontract work in the order of SUS750.000 from 3 Australian organisations. Hawker de Havilland Pty Ltd will supply escape slide containers to the value of 
SUS450.000. The Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation Pty Ltd will supply gear boxes to the value of SUS200.000. The Government Aircraft Factories will supply 2,500 aircraft windows worth approximately SUS1 35,000. I do not think that there is any significance in the different amounts of the sub-contracts. Boeing's requirement was the main factor. Boeing is producing an aircraft. It believed that it can get tenders for certain sub-contract work in Australia. There would not be any differentiation between the various companies which tendered for this work. 
I am sure that nobody would like to think that this is the end of the road. As I said yesterday, it is a modest beginning, but I hope that it will be clear in future, whenever we let contracts overseas for sophisticated equipment which it is not appropriate for us to produce ourselves, that we shall be looking for sub-contracting work for the Australian industry wherever possible. I agree with  Senator Bishop's  approach that we should be looking for it all the time. I assure him that these orders are not the end; they are only the start. 
During the time that I have been Minister for Supply there have been joint studies, for instance, with the British Aircraft Corporation on one proposal. There is a high degree of interchangeability with the British aircraft industry in matters related to the industry. It is true that we built the Mirage under licence from the French. It is equally true that we built the Macchi under licence from the Italian Macchi company. There have been studies with the British Aircraft Corporation in relation to the needs of the Services. It has to be remembered always that Australia's requirements are very small in the general sense and, therefore, the sheer economics would not justify the building of an aircraft for the Services where our needs are very small and there is no certainty of the order book for such aircraft being filled. This is one of. our biggest problems. Of course aircraft such as the F111 are so sophisticated that we would not be competent to build them. We must remember that we are a nation of only 12 million people and when we consider maintaining and servicing an aircraft industry we must bear in mind that our local needs are strictly limited. We must, therefore, maintain a high degree of co-operation with other countries. In the past we have done this - notably, to my knowledge, with the British Aircraft Corporation in relation to one particular project. 
-I move: 
That order of the day No. 1 - Ruling of  Deputy President  - Objection to: Consideration of the following motion, moved (on 19th May) by  Senator Cavanagh,  viz. - That the Ruling of the  Deputy President  (to the effect that, in accordance with practice,  Senator Cavanagh  required leave of the Senate to read his Question on Notice when the proceedings of the Senate were not being broadcast) be dissented from - be discharged. 
This matter came onto the notice paper by mistake. I think it is agreed that it was a misunderstanding and I ask that it be discharged, the matter having been dealt with. 

 Senator MURPHY (New South WalesLeader of the Opposition) [2.26 - If I may have leave to add to that, as I understand it this matter relates to a dissent by  Senator Cavanagh  who is agreeable to the order of the day being discharged. You,  Mr President,  indicated that this matter was going to be the subject of consideration by the Standing Orders Committee. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
 Senator Mulvihill  referred to a question he asked and an answer I gave him some time ago in relation to the fountain in Chifley Square. I supplied some information on the Commonwealth's contribution. I now take on board the point he is really making which is that he wants to know the reason for the delay and why the Council of the City of Sydney is not going on with the project. I would need to make some inquiries through the Prime Minister's Department. I accept the honourable senator's request and will obtain some information for him. 
As to the point made by  Senator O'Byrne,  I have been informed by the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  that there is currently an examination of the involvement of the Department of Civil Aviation in flights and whether there could be an arrangement whereby in certain regards there could be a cognate situation with Royal Australian Air Force VIP flights. The 
Department of Civil Aviation, the Department of Air, the Treasury and the Prime Minister's Department are involved. The points the honourable senator made are topical. The aspect be raised as to salary range could well have an effect upon the loss rate. I take that on board. I have no doubt that would be one of the considerations in this matter. As I have said, the position is being examined bin no decisions have been taken to date. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without requests; report adopted. 
 My brief docs not extend to the depth of material required to answer the questions asked by  Senator Bishop.  As I have done in the past, 1 will take note of the points made and refer them to the Department of Shipping and Transport for a considered reply. The only explanation which 1 have available to me - it does not add very much - is that provision is made under this vote for financial assistance to the State of South Australia within the terms of the Act. Having regard to the contractual commitments and works in progress, it will be necessary to provide $600,000 to meet calls from the State during the supply period for reimbursement of expenditure Incurred. The point about that, as the honourable senator will appreciate, is that this is an advance for five-twelfths of the year. This matter will appear in a much more significant way in the Budget Session. So that the honourable senator may have information for subsequent discussion during the Budget session, I will attempt to get answers to the points that he raised. 
As a matter of fact, the item to which  Senator Murphy  refers was dealt with in the Bill which we passed a few moments ago. I felt that he was raising a broad principle in relation to this Advance to the Treasurer of S20m and I feel bound to point out to him that this has been the practice for the last 24 years and, in fact, I understand that the amount has remained the same. I recognise that he was using this as a vehicle. We could have, for instance, a national disaster in which it would be necessary to give some assistance to the States. 
I realise that and I recognise that the honourable senator used it as a vehicle to make a point about the Fill. The Fill is the subject of a statement listed on the notice paper. 1 would suggest that if and when we come to that matter for debate  Senator Murphy  should make again the points that he has made. 
The short answer to the point made by the honourable senator, of which I have taken note, is that this line of the est:mates is in respect of the generality of the Service requirements on a 5/12ths basis. I cannot add very much lo what I said at question time beyond reiterating the point that this is very carefully watched by me as Minister for Supply, by my Department and by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the defence complex. We look and will be looking all the time for an opportunity for Australia to get some feedback when we place overseas orders. The honourable senator has to appreciate that in some fields we do not yet have the capacity and the technical know-how, not because we do not have it inherently but because of the order book and the type of order that we would need to receive. In these circumstances it is just sheer commonsense to purchase overseas. In other words, we would not spend $5m or $6m tooling up and gearing up to produce a piece of equipment which, when we got the order, would be worth, perhaps, only $250,000 because that would be our requirement over a period of years. This is a very difficult field and judgments have to be made. I can only give the honourable senator and the Committee the assurance that we are looking and at all times in the future will be looking for these orders. The possibility of Australia getting some sort of order if we let a contract overseas is posed every time a piece of paper comes across my desk which relates to a newly placed order. We also question whether we can provide certain parts of the order in existing establishments or by setting up some new establishment.  I  am sure we are all as one on this issue. It is just a question of how hard we oan push it. 
I cannot give the honourable senator any. answers about Canberra's water supply, but I can tell him what the 160,000 represents. I am sure that it would gladden the hearts of all who believe in the tourist attractions of Canberra and the Australian Capital Territory to know that this new item of expenditure which appears in this Bill is for the purpose of expenditure on the Black Mountain Tourist Park. I presume that it will be to provide for embellishments to that park as a tourist attraction. As to the question about the water supply, when I go through Hansard after the Committee debate and pick up all the loose ends I shall see that a query is sent to the Department of the Interior as to what the situation is in relation to the water supply. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
This question obviously should be addressed to the Minister for External Affairs. As the honourable senator would appreciate, Australia is a member of the United Nations and by virtue of that membership is a party to the principles and doctrines of the United Nations. However, I think the question should properly be answered by the Minister for External Affairs. 
I ask for leave to make a short statement on this matter. 

 - Senator Murphy has given notice of a motion in relation to standing committees. I remind honourable senators of item 15 on the business paper, which relates to a report concerning standing committees which has been tabled in the Parliament. I think it is proper for me to say that the Government Parties have considered the proposal for the establishment of standing committees. When the matter comes on for debate it may be that views will be expressed by honourable senators on this side of the chamber in relation to what form, if any, the standing committees may take in the Parliament in future. It would be quite improper for me to speculate on the views that will be expressed in the debate, but I want to make it abundantly clear that while  Senator Murphy  has given notice of a motion and has expressed in it views as to the form he considers the standing committees may take, when the debate takes place - and we expect that it will take place before we rise - views will be. put from this side of the Senate as to the form of the standing committees. It is also my understanding that the Standing Orders Committee will be given an opportunity to consider item 15 on the business paper and any cognate matters arising out of it. 
The honourable senator has asked me whether there is any truth in a statement made by an official of an oil company. Until I see the statement and evaluate it I would not presume to say whether it is true or false, or whether it is a wrong appreciation. As the question  is  framed I do not think it  is  suitable for question time. Obviously an official of an oil company has expressed a view. I would be perfectly happy to study the view he has expressed and to consider it, but it would not be proper for me to make a categorical statement on whether such a statement is true or false. 
Yes, I will. 
While I have not been in the chamber during the recent discussion I have listened to it. I say gently to the Committee that the issues have been canvassed fully. We are getting to the stage where we are arguing 2 points of view. I think the simple solution is to request that a vote be taken. 
The first point that has to be considered in any reflection upon income tax, depreciation allowances or any other allowances is the revenue itself. Every government has to make up its mind as to the type of revenue it requires and the means by which it will get that revenue. In that context, therefore, any concessional allowances that may be given across the board have to be regarded, first as to the merit of the proposals and secondly as to the gathering of the revenue. It is true, as I understand it, that there has always been an argument in relation to the merit of the case for depreciation allowances not only in relation to buildings used for commercial purposes but also in many other fields. The question arises as to the time of depreciation. What would be fair depreciation in relation to a monumental building which will be there for 100 years, and in relation to a short term building? These are very complex matters. All 1 can give is the answer 1 have given so many times in the past, that is, that the question of tax allowances and concessions is dealt with annually at Budget time and I have no doubt that the Treasurer, having a look at his responsibilities and his requirements for governmental purposes, will consider all manner of possible allowances that have been put to him by way of representation in the Senate or in other places. I can only add that I will draw to the Treasurer's attention the point of view expressed by the honourable senator. 
The Prime Minister has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
I refer the Honourable  Senator to  the answer given to a question without notice on 7 April 1970 (Hansard (Senate) page 549) and to the reply given on 27 October 1966 in the House of Representatives by the then Prime Minister to a question without notice (Hansard page 2257). 
Having had discussions with the Leaders of the other Parties and without in any way reflecting on the blanket resolution, I now move: 
That Government Business take precedence over General Business this day. 
It is applicable only to today. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
 I have listened very carefully to the debate and in particular to the final contribution of the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy).  Although he put a point of view he left a qualification out of the actual decision to be made by the Director-General of Health. The qualification is significant. The Director-General will, as has been explained by the Minister for Housing  (Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin),  who represents here the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes),  have the advantage of the views of the Australian Dental Association. There is nothing unique about this. In the upper echelons of medicine medical practitioners give advice in general hospitals all over the Commonwealth. If the Australian Dental Association should not give advice to the DirectorGeneral, who should? There is a slight difference between the approach of  Senator Turnbull  and the approach of  Senator Willesee. Senator Willesee  said that in this instance the Director-General will be given an open go to play God as to who shall or shall not be included. On the other hand, the amendment of  Senator Turnbull  purports to let him play God by including everybody. This is the essential difference between the two. 
I return to the point raised by  Senator Marriott.  In a spirit of, perhaps, getting on with things, honourable senators are taking the hurdle with an amendment without taking a little time to reflect on it. It is quite clear in my mind, and I think it is clear in the minds of the Minister and the supporters of the Government in the main, that it is not in the nature of things expected that the ordinary dental practitioner will be either competent or qualified to carry out very complicated oral surgery. 
 Senator Cant  has raised an interesting aspect. I think  Senator Turnbull  will agree with me that it is a fact of life that there have been many dental practitioners down through the years- who have carried out very difficult surgery which would perhaps have been ^better performed by a specialist. I think a more practical approach would be to defer the clause so that we can have another look at it. 
This procedure was adopted earlier and the matter involved was resolved during the suspension of the sitting for dinner tonight. I think honourable senators should realise what they will be in fact doing if they vote for this amendment. Deferring the clause would enable  Senator Turnbull  to circulate his amendment and thus conform with Standing Orders. If it did nothing else it would do that.  Senator Turnbull  suggested that every dental practitioner would be thought competent to do oral surgery. 
-He does. He wants to open up the field to all dentists. Perhaps the Senate could give  Senator Turnbull  another opportunity to make the point clear. I saw a difference between the argument he was putting and the argument  Senator Willesee  was putting that the Government should not put this power into the hands of the Director-General of Health. The Director-General is going to make these recommendations in the background of advice he receives from the Australian Dental Association. Who would be more competent to advise the DirectorGeneral? Who would honourable senators have advise the Director-General? Would they have some politician make the recommendation? Perhaps another amendment is appropriate which would spell out the basis of the Director-General's recommendation or decision and which would be founded on advice which he would receive. If honourable senators are going to vote on the amendment as it now stands they are going to vote for one principle but they seem to have 2 points of view for the reason they are voting. 
 Dealing with the point made by  Senator Turnbull  about deferring or altering the amendment we are considering, the inevitability of the matter is that requests for amendments to the Bill have been agreed to, and therefore the Bill will go to the other place with requests. So if honourable senators have a point of view to express, they should do so, but this is not the end of the road because, as I say, the Bill will go to the other place with requests and it will then come back to the Senate. 1 would think that the logic of the situation at this point of time is not to think in terms of deferring consideration of any amendments, but to express the will of the Senate, without any stifling of debate, knowing that in fact the matter is still very much alive. 
There seems to be a misunderstanding on one point.  Senator McClelland  tied his case to out-patients and that was clearly understood. I can speak with knowledge only of New South Wales. For intermediate patients in a New South Wales hospital, and generally speaking there are no private beds, a doctor has a right to charge a fee. The hospital also charges a fee. But if you are a public patient you undergo a means test when you are admitted. Subject to that means test the hospital makes a charge but there is no doctor's charge. 
This is the point the Minister makes. These are matters under discussion between the Commonwealth and the States - the methods of means testing by the States and the charges that they make for fees. It would be completely premature at this point to get into that field. I think that  Senator Dame  Annabelle Rankin has made quite a valid argument. In the case of intermediate patients the hospital and the doctor each charge a fee. Public patients undergo a means test, and subject to that means test a hospital can charge a fee; but there is no medical fee because the treatment is given by honorary visiting medical staff, plus the resident medical staff, under the supervision of the medical superintendent of the hospital. 
I shall respond to  Senator Cavanagh  on behalf of the Minister for Housing  (Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin)  who represents in this place the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth).  I have gained the impression from what the honourable senator said that he already has made contact with the secretary of the Minister: for Social Services in regard to what he says is a delay in the payment of social service benefits which have become due by reason of a series of circumstances. In the honourable senators view the delay has been caused by a lack of communication between the executive and the Salisbury office. All I can do is promise to direct the attention of the Minister for Social Services to the honourable senator's remarks. I will do that first thing in the morning. 

 Senator Fitzgerald raised at question time this morning a matter which flowed from a report he had beard of a statement made by  Mr Sykes, Chairman  of XL Petroleum Pty Ltd. It was a fair enough question. Very properly I took it under notice because it has many implications.  Mr Sykes  has chosen to say that because petrol is being exported from Australia a reduction in the price of petrol is being denied to Australians. That is the assumption that  Mr Sykes  is making. I would wish to have the matter looked at closely within the complex of the Department of Trade and Industry and the Department of Customs and Excise which, I think, administers the requirement that Australian companies take a certain percentage of Australian crude oil. 1 rather fancy that an abridged comment was put over the air. It may be an abridgement of what  Mr Sykes  said. One would need to look at the whole thing in context. 
It is true that the retail price of petrol is fixed across the Commonwealth on the basis of what is decided by the Prices Commissioner in South Australia. There is price control in South Austraiian and for convenience other States use the retail prices fixed by the Prices Commissioner in that State.  I  am convinced in my own mind that the export of petrol from Australia has many implications which would be linked to the obligation - a very wise obligation which this Parliament has imposed - that all oil companies must take a certain percentage of Australian crude. That is an essential ingredient associated with the search for petroleum crude in Australia which has been a great success so far.  I  think that factor will be found somewhere in this series of complexities. Therefore it would be more appropriate to obtain for the honourable senator a reply from the Department of Trade and Industry and the Department of Customs and Excise which, I think, administers this section of the law. 
The Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The following table sets out the opening dates of Commonwealth public loans raised since 1949 in which changes were made in the interest rate offered on the longest term securities available in the loans, and the new rate of interest offered on each occasion - 

<graphic href="044232197005220_7_0.jpg"></graphic>

The honourable senator's question involves a good deal of mathematics. I will obtain the information he is seeking as quickly as I can and make it available to him. 
There has been publicity that suggests that far more questions should be asked than is intended. The completion of the census document in itself is a formidable undertaking. Whilst I think we all accept the proposition that in the world in which we live it is necessary to have a whole series of questions posed for our good government and for the ultimate good of the community at large I think we also accept the point that the honourable senator makes, namely, that the document that seeks the information should not pry into the personal behaviour, habits and way of life of people any more than is necessary. I would like to regard the question as being on the notice paper and to have a reply given through the appropriate department. But I am sure that we are all as one in saying that we realise the necessity to obtain information for census purposes. No-one wants it to go one point further than the purposes for which the census was established. 
I am happy to say the Government is constantly alert to the economic state of this country. It would be axiomatic that when a decision is taken by the Government which is calculated to assist in the stabilisation of the economy it would not be unaware of the reaction on the other side of the coin. The management of the economy of a great nation is a very delicate thing. As everybody knows, it is not a precise science. Government policy has been applied in the concept of taking steps to get a reaction against inflationary tendencies which may be occurring in the community. These steps are taken in the interests of the people in order to ensure that we have a balanced and stable economy. Government policy is stability in all things for all people, and particularly for the working community. 
The Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Deductions under section 75 of the Income Tax Assessment Act are specifically limited to persons who are actually engaged in primary production on land or who have embarked on a definite and continuous cycle of operations on the land designed to lead to primary production in their own right. In their immediate effect, such deductions do no more than reduce the net cost to the person in respect of the expenditure concerned. Even a person on the maximum marginal rate of tax would still have to bear approximately one-third of that expenditure. 
It would be very difficult, if not impossible, to amend the law in a manner which would withdraw the concession in respect of particular areas of land but which would not, at the same time, deny the concessions to persons undertaking development of other areas where the same questions of land conservation may not arise or be less relevant. 
The Minister for External Affairs Kas furnished the following reply: 
The Australian Government deplores atrocities, no matter by whom committed. We have no independent evidence upon which to base an opinion about who committed the atrocities. In these circumstances, the Australian Government has not protested to the Cambodian Government concerning the allegations. 
As I said in answer to the first part of the question, Australia has had no independent evidence on which to base an opinion on the accuracy of the allegations. I note that allegations are no longer being made. Meanwhile, the Government's examination of the Cambodian request for military supplies is continuing. 
As the honourable senator will be aware from the statement I issued to the press on 27th April, the Government instructed the Australian Ambassador in Phnom Penh to use his good offices to bring about the reception of a humanitarian mission from South Vietnam. Subsequent to this initiative the Cambodian Government agreed to receive an official South Vietnamese mission. The Mission arrived in Phnom Penh at the end of April and has been afforded every facility both to inspect the living conditions of 
Vietnamese civilians and to arange the repatriation of those wishing to return to South Vietnam. No consideration has been given to sending an Australian goodwill delegation and I do not think it would now be appropriate. 
 The Minister for External Affairs has furnished the following : reply: 
and (2) The Australian Government has been in close and continuing consultation with a number of Governments including that of the United States about the situation arising from the increase in Vietnamese Communist military activity in Cambodia. President Nixon's decision that protective operations should be carried out in Cambodia was communicated in advance to the Australian Government. Since Australian forces are not engaged in those operations, and there is no prospect that they will be, no question of consultation arose. 
The Australian Government's attitude to the increased North Vietnamese and Viet Cong aggression in Cambodia and to the subsequent measures taken by the United States was set out in the Prime Minister's statement in the House of Representatives of 5th May, 1970. 
The Minister for External Affairs has furnished the following reply: 
France exploded the first nuclear device in its 1970 series of nuclear tests at its experimental site : in the Pacific on Friday 15th May, 1970. The Australian Government has made known to the French Government its opposition to such testing. I refer the Honourable  Senator to  the answer which the Minister for External Affairs gave to a question without notice in the House of Representatives on 7th April, 1970 (Hansard pp. 734-35). It is a matter of regret to the Government that the French authorities have disregarded Australia's views and those of other countries in this part of the world. I also refer the Honourable  Senator to  the answer which the Minister for External Affairs gave to a question without notice in the House of Representatives on 8th April, 1970 (Hansard p. 814). 
 On 7th May,  Senator Lawrie  asked me the following question: 
In view of the proposal for Fiji to be granted independence in October and in view of Australia's substantial trade and business interests in that country as well as our interests in Nandi Airport, will the Government give early consideration to raising the status of our representation in Fiji? 
I gave the following reply: 
This, too, is a matter that would need to be referred to the Department of External Affairs. It is true that independence is to be granted to Fiji and I gather that it is to take effect from October. 
Over the years we in Australia have built up a tremendous increase in our posts overseas for the promotion of international goodwill and indeed in the interests of our trade and commerce. I will have the matter examined to see whether there is a case at this time, concurrently with this move to independence,  to upgrade or advance our representation in that country. 
The Minister for External Affairs has now provided the following information: 
The Australian mission in Fiji is designated a Commission because of Fiji's status as a British Colony. When Fiji becomes independent on October 10th, a Commission would no longer be appropriate and, subject to the agreement of the Government of an independent Fiji and of the Australian Government, the Australian Commission would become a High Commission as is the case in other Commonwealth countries in which Australia is represented. 
by leave - I have had this statement circulated. It is a very brief one and I think I should read it. As honourable senators are aware, it is the practice of my Department to seek, whereever possible, projects which might result in the local design, development or production of defence equipment. In line with this practice a preliminary design study was put in hand when the Royal Australian Air 
Force issued a requirement for a close air support advanced trainer aircraft. The purpose of the study was to assess the feasibility of designing an aircraft that would not only satisfy the RAAF requirement but which would also achieve an overseas market. The study was therefore extended to include an assessment of market potential. It was decided that this preliminary design study would best 'fie handled as a collaborative effort with a major overseas aircraft organisation. Accordingly arrangements were entered into with the British Aircraft Corporation for the study to proceed jointly between that Corporation in England and the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation Pty Ltd in Australia. I emphasise that the purpose of the exercise was not to design a specific aircraft but rather to study the feasibility of a particular design concept and the market it would attract. 
It will be appreciated that the viability of such a proposal would be dependent upon not only a significant RAAF order but also a considerable penetration of the overseas market. I think I made reference to this angle several days ago. In the event, we have not been able to obtain sufficient assurances of overseas sales. Furthermore, there has been a re-thinking of the Australian requirements for close air support and advanced training and as a result it has been decided that continuation of work on the project could not be justified. However, I wish to emphasise to the Senate that much valuable experience has been gained by collaborating with a major overseas aircraft organisation on the design study. I am hopeful that this experience will stand the local industry in good stead when future opportunity for a collaborative effort presents itself. The study related to the advanced trainer only. 
No, this was the advanced project. 
 Mr Chairman 
 I did not move a motion for recommittal, so I am not closing the debate. I want to say something at this time- 
Maybe. If the honourable senator does not want to hear this, I will not say it. 
 The fact of the matter is that, as  Senator Murphy  has said, there is provision for recommittal. I think  he  provision really has 2 legs. It can be done at the adoption of report stage or at the third reading stage. I do not want to dwell on the circumstances of how this happened. But I would be distressed to think that there was some suggestion that  Senator Gair,  the Leader of the Australian Democratic Labor Party, was subjected to discourtesy in this matter, because it related to circumstances in which the  President  was involved and in which the Opposition also was involved, in an indirect way. 
Yes, I know that; but the point  Senator Gair  is making is that there was discourtesy in our not informing him. On reflection and with hindsight, I concede that it could be put that way. 

 - Senator Gair is being a little difficult. I am saying that with hindsight I recognise that the point he makes has some validity. But I am sure that he will appreciate, as I think we all do, the tremendous pressure we were under here last night. So I express my regret that this situation has arisen. 
I will not delay the Senate for very long. I want to say only that it was the Government's wish to get this legislation and to bring it into effect by 1st June. The Senate in its wisdom streamlined its procedures in a very significant way during the last few days in order to get the maximum debating time in the Committee stage to achieve that purpose. The will of the Senate has been expressed. It has been the will of the Senate to pass certain requests and certain amendments.  Senator Turnbull  knows the procedures as well as all of us do. Now the requests and amendments must go by way of message to the other place, the other place must consider them and, having considered them, send a message back to this place. 
The facts of life are as  Senator Willesee  has said and as I said. I think yesterday. In fact 1 said it in direct response to something  Senator Turnbull  had said. Because of the requests and the amendments which have been carried the Bill has to go back to the other place. I suggest that in the debate honourable senators express their points of view and, having expressed their points of view, we then have votes on them so that we can get the Bill to the other place as quickly as we can. In the event we have not been able to get it there by this afternoon. The other place is lifting at 4 o'clock. The Parliament will not re-assemble until the week after next. 
We have exercised our function as a Senate to make requests and to make amendments, and we have made progress. Had we not made this progress we would be in more difficulty when we resumed. That is a fact of political life and there can be no recriminations about it. 1 am sorry that this point of view has been expressed. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Senate adjourned at 3.56 p.m. to Tuesday,  2  June, al 2 p.m. 
The Minister for Works, I suspect, is still in the fog,, trying to get here for question time. Consequently, 1 ask that the question be put on the notice paper. I will direct his attention to it when he arrives. 
Quite obviously, that question will need to go on the notice paper and attract a reply from the Minister for External Affairs. It concerns a matter of policy. 
I certainly do recall the question asked of me by  Senator Fitzgerald.  I readily recall that he gave me a Press cutting which pointed out the substance of the question he posed. As is normal with questions outside my portfolio. 1 referred the question to the appropriate Minister. I am not in a position to give any information at the moment because none has been supplied to me by way of response As the honourable senator indicated, the retail price of patrol is influenced by a decision of the Prices Commissioner of South Australia. I have no shadow of doubt io my mind that the points raised by  Senator Fitzgerald  as the basis of his question will be within the knowledge and awareness of the Prices Commissioner of South Australia. Therefore, I would assume that this matter has been examined at that level. Nevertheless, I will seek to obtain an answer to the question that was directed to me. 
The honourable senator asked a rather complex question based upon a proposal that in the Budget context the Treasurer should give consideration to a reduction in petrol tax in rural areas. 
Yes - making the lax available. So the concept is to gather the tax and then to make it available to rural municipalities. This is a Budget matter. As the honourable senator knows, all I can do is refer a submission put by way of a question to the Treasurer. I would not necessarily accept that if local government did get a rebate in that way it would follow that there would be a reduction of municipal rates because other considerations might come into that aspect of the matter. Nevertheless, the question is one for the Treasurer. Yes, 1 will ask the Treasurer to give consideration to the proposal. 
I saw a statement by  Mr Abbott,  the Managing Director of the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation. I read it in a slightly different context from that suggested in the question posed by the honourable senator. I believe that it was on a far wider canvas than was the question directed to me.I wantto make it abundantly clear that the Government has a very substantial interest in the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation, We, as a government, are part of that organisation to that extent. I repeat what 1 have said here quite a number of limes: It is Government policy and it is certainly my responsibility to see that we have a viable aircraft industry. That does not mean only the Government Aircraft Factories; it means the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation, the Hawker de Havilland company in Sydney and all industries associated with the aircraft industry. 
I made a statement in this place in relation to a proposal for the advanced trainer. It is true that in collaboration with the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation and the British Aircraft Corporation studies were put in hand andthat a substantial amount of the taxpayers' money was spent on those studies. This was part of a plan in the normal working of the aircraft industry to see whether we had a capability in relation to a certain proposed type of aircraft that the Services may require in the future. 
The honourable senator is getting away from the serious answer that I am giving to the question that was putto me. I want to make it clear at all times that a tremendous amount of my Department's time is directed to the aircraft industry by way of trying to obtain an Australian component in any aircraft requirement. The Minister for Defence made a statement yesterday. I think, in which he pointed out that, because Australia will require a certain number of helicopters - more than a hundred - for our defence Services, and this will involve an expenditure of the order of$100m. we are seeking lo let contracts which will ensure that there will be an Australian content and that there will be a sub-contractual opportunity for organisations such as the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation,the Government Aircraft Factories and the Hawker de Havilliand company in relation to those contracts. Coming back to where I started,I think the honourable senator has placed an interpretation on the statement of the Managing Director of the Corporation which is perhaps a little more critical than he intended it to be. 
The honourable senator asks a question about a document which I understand is entitled 'Australian Military Forces Pocket Book, South Vietnam'. In the first place, if it is a military document, the authority for its publication will be obviously within the defence complex. But the honourable senator asked subsequent questions about the material that is contained in the document. I therefore suggest that the question should go on notice and I will get a reply from the Department of Defence. 
lt is true, as  Senator Bishop  indicates, that we are approaching the time for the final firing at Woomera for the ELDO programme in Australia, lt is equally true that we are now embarking on some additional work at Woomera for the NASA organisation in relation to 'Aerobee' firings. 1 made a statement earlier in relation to the employment situation at Woomera which suggested that there would be some rearranging of personnel. However, in the light of the new angle to the question put by  Senator Bishop,  perhaps it would be more appropriate if I were to get a detailed reply from the Department, which I should be able to have within the next 24 or 48 hours. 
I will seek some information to see whether it is a classified document or an ordinary document issued to the Services or whether it is even that. I will find out the facts and faithfully let the honourable senator and the Senate know. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
To be most effective, any measures designed to control pollution in the Antarctic would best be implemented throughout Antarctica, and not only in respect of Australian Antarctic Territory. The honourable senator will appreciate that there are other countries there. 
Australia is a signatory to the Antarctic Treaty which has amongst its basic aims the preservation and conservation of living resources in the region. It could therefore be expected that multilateral action would be considered by the signatories under the Treaty if and when the need arose to control any threat of pollution to the region. 
Representatives of the signatories to the Antarctic Treaty meet regularly and make recommendations about measures in furtherance of the principles and objectives of the Treaty. One such set of measures deals wilh the Conservation of Antarctic Fauna and I- 1 ora and covers such matters as harmful interference with the normal living conditions of those species - for example, each participating Government is requested to take al) reasonable steps towards the alleviation of pollution of the waters adjacent to the coast and the ice shelves of Antarctica. 
There is at present no commercial exploitation of mineral resources in the Antarctic such as already exists in the Arctic region and so pollution from that source is not an immediate problem. 
However, the action taken so far suggests that the need to introduce measures to control pollution in the general sense in Antarctica are likely to be kepi under review by the signatories to the Treaty. 
The Minister for Defence has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The presence of aRussian trawler of approximately 250 tons fishing to the north west of Stanley was reportedto the Department of Primary Industry on 9lh April 1970. This followed a sighting of a trawler bearing the mark SDT M8/415 on the previous day. From subsequent investigations it was established that two trawlers and another vessel, possibly a refrigerator ship, were operating in the area ofRobbins Island in Bass Strait. These craft were identified from an aerial survey as the "Pelamida', the Cymbl', and the M8/415 mentioned above. 
Further aerial surveillance by a RAAF aircraft on 1 1th April 1970 showed that the ships were outside the 12 milefishing zone and proceeding on a course away from Tasmania. 
The Treasurer provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
As at 30th June 1969, the average deposit with the Commonwealth Savings Bank was approximately $400. 
The Commonwealth Savings Bank and the private savings banks have not changed the rate of interest payable on deposits of $4,000 or less or the first $4,000 of any deposit in excess of $4,000. 
Kales of 6.25% per annum and 6.75% per annum are now being charged by the Commonwealth Savings Bank on new loans, up to its normal limit of $8,000, for new and existing dwellings respectively. There arc differences in housing loan interest rates between savings banks but most lending is at rates of up to 7% per annum. 
It is not possible to identify the particular deposits from which loans for housing are made. I would point out, however,that savings banks subject to the Banking Act are required to hold a minimum of 65% of their deposits in liquid assets and public securities. 
The Treasurer has provided the following 3 answers to the honourable senator's questions: 
The Commonwealth Banking Corporation has furnished the following information: 
In a limited number of suitable cases, the Commonwealth Savings Bank is approving mortgage loans in excess of $8,000. The interest rate being charged on these loans ranges between 7.5 and 8% per annum. The general limit of$8,000 still applies to the normal housing loans made by the Commonwealth Savings Bank. 
No, but it is expected that the loans will generally be in the $8,000-$12,000 bracket. 
Loans are made for both home building and purchase. 
The Minister for Defence has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
No such order has been issued. 
No. In addition to Australian and South Vietnamese infantry New Zealand, South Korean. That, and United Stales infantry are engaged in operations. 
No. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
The Royal Navy has adopted the Ikara antisubmarine weapon system. My Department played the major role in the joint development of a system to meet the Royal Navy's requirement. Production orders have been received for substantial numbers of missiles and some parts of the shipborne equipment. 
-The Minister for Trade and Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senators question: 
Thefollowing shipmentsof Australian Hour were made in the period 1st December 1969 to 2nd May 1970: 

<graphic href="044232197006023_10_0.jpg"></graphic>

Yes. Total shipments for the corresponding period last year were 123,706 short tons. 
The Australian Wheal Board which is responsible for the export marketing of wheat and Hour, does not disclose the price at which individual contracts are made. 
The Minister for Trade and Industry has provided the following answerto the honourable senator's question: 
The Australian Wheat Board has maintained a continuity of sales with Chile and Peru since 1966-67. In recent years the only previous sales to Sudan were recorded in 1967-68. Regular sales have been made to the other countries. 
The Australian Wheat Growers' Federation has recommended and the Commonwealth and State Governments have agreed that wheat delivery quotas for the 1970-71 season should be set at 318 million bushels, lt is expected that the quota arrangements will be reviewed again early in 1971 and the Wheat Board's export selling performance and the level of unsold stocks will be taken into account in any such review. 
-The Prime Minister has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
I refer the honourable  Senator to  the answer given to Parts (1) and (2) of Senate Question No. 57 (Hansard. 15 April 1970. page 764). 
On 23rd April  Senator Milliner  asked if, as the Minister representing the Treasurer, I would ascertain the reasons for the delay in the delivery of bound volumes of Hansard and. if the reason were shortage of staff in which departments of the Government Printing Office such shortages occur and the additional number of tradesmen requiredto eliminate such shortages. On13th May I provided an answer for  Senator Milliner  which explained that the delay was caused by the magnitude of the work the fact that binding cannot beginfor 6to8 weeks after the close of a session until the indexes have been compiled by the Parliamentary Reporting Staff and set by the Government Printer, and the Christmas close-down. On 14th May  Senator Milliner  suggested that my reply did not answer those parts of his question concerning staff shortages at the Printing Office. If. however, the honourable senator will look again at the reply to his original question, he will see that the delay was. in the main, caused not by shortages of staff  in the Government Printing Office, but by other factors. 
COMMEMORATlVE ST A M PS 
Is the Minister representing the PostmasterGeneral aware that Australia has been honoured by selection as host nation for the international conference on education this year, which Was been designated by the United Nations General Assembly as International Education Year. 
is she aware that the World Assembly of Teachers will be holding a conference in Sydney front 4th Augustto 12th August this year. 
Is she aware that the Prime Minister and  Dr Angie  Brooks, the  President  of the United Nations General Assembly, will address the con ference. 
Is she also aware that the Australian Teachers' Federation approached thePostmasterGeneral in October last year asking that an Australian stamp be printed to mark the occasion of this assembly and that that request was refused on the ground that the programme for 1970 was overloaded. 
In view of the great international importance of this occasion and in view of its importanceto Australia, will the Minister use her good offices withthe Postmaster-Generalto have an urgent review of the matter made so that an appropriate stamp can be printed. 
The Postmaster-General has now furnished me with the following information in reply: 
to (d) Yes. 
Careful consideration has been given to this suggestion on a number of occasions previously. The position is that Australia is becoming increasingly popular as an international conference venue and in view of the numerous requests received for conference stamps, it is necessaryto adopt a very selective policy towards requests of this nature.It is necessary to limitnew stamp issues to about eight to twelve each year and. in order to maintain a reasonable coverage of subjects of particular national importance, the number of conferences which can be commemorated is relatively small. The Postmaster-General had already given his approval for  2  conference stamps for 1970 prior tothe first representations bythe Australian teachers' Federation. Since thenthe Commonwealth Parliamentary Association Congress, originally set down for Australia  in  1971  and  for which a commemorative stamp was approved, will now be held here  in  October 1970, making  3  conference stamps already approved for this year. 
Several important stamp issues have already been made this year  in  commemoration of notable occasions such as the Royal Visit, the Cook  Bicentenary  and Expo 70. The popularity of these issues has made it necessary to produce substantial printings which, in turn, have reduced the production capacity available for the remainder of the year. The printing presses will now be fully occupied for the next several months producing stamps scheduled for issue later in the year. The new stamp issues scheduled for the remainder of 1970, which, incidentally, is a particularly heavy year for stamp issues, include stamps highlighting out natural resources of bauxite, oil and natural gas; Snowy Mountains and Ord River developments; 4 famous Australians; the 25th Anniversary of the United Nations; and the 50th Anniversary of Qantas Airways Ltd. The Postmaster-General has assured me that he appreciates the importance of the Assembly of the World Confederation of Organisations of the Teaching Profession but for the reasons explained he is unable to agree to the issue of a commemorative stamp. 
On 14th May 1970  Senator Bishop  asked me the following question: 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. It refers to the French nuclear tests which are to be held in the Pacific area.I ask the Minister what special precautions against fall out or what programme for recording fall-out over Australia have been recommended by the Government during this week. 1 also ask the Minister which of the committees have responsibility in this matter. Is it the National Radiation Advisory Committee or the Atomic Weapons Tests Safety Committee? Have only these 2 committees been asked to makethe survey or has the Government taken some other action to ensure the safely of the Australian people 
The Prime Minister has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Radio-active fall-out in Australia is monitored in two complementary programmes. One has continued 24 hours a day since 1957 and is devoted tothe low levels of long lived isotopes in fallout. Strontium 90 and Caesium137. The other programme is directed mainly at the shorter-lived radio- isotopes in fall-out which may be of signifiance only in the few months during and immediately after atest series. This short term programme is instituted for particular series of tests for which fall-out might reach Australia, such as those carried out by France in Polynesia. Results from these monitoring programmes are publishedafter the scientific journals as soon as possible afterthe measurements are completed. The National Radiation Advisory Committee was appointed by the Commonwealth Government in 
May 1957  to  advise the Commonwealth Government through the Prime Minister  on  matters concerning the effects  of  ionising radiation  on  the Australian community. The results of the monitoring programmes which are conducted by the Atomic Weapons Tests Safety Committee  are  made available  to  the National Radiation Advisory Committee. In November 1965 the NRAC  in  conjunction with the AWTSC undertook  an  assessment  of  any biological hazard which might arise  in  Australia  as a  result of the French Tests then scheduled  to  be conducted  in  the South Pacific Ocean area. The NRAC, after consideration of analyses from the AWTSC,  was  satisfied that the proposed tests were unlikely  to  lead  to a  significant biological hazard  in  Australia. This conclusion was confirmed by the NRAC  in its  reports  in  March 1967 and December 1967.  In  its most recently published report - that  of  March 1969- the NRAC concluded that the fall-out over Australia from the most recent series of French nuclear tests  in  the Pacific, like that from earlier French nuclear tests was  of no  significance  as a  hazard  to  the health  of  the Australian population. As far as further tests by the French are concernedthe same monitoring programmes and assessments will be undertaken but the NRAC can see no reasonto depart from its conclusions that the French nuclear weapons tests are unlikely  to  be of significance as hazard to the health  of  the Australian population. 
I ask leave of the Senate to make a short statement on behalf of the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  relating to the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - There being no objection. leave is granted. 
This is a statement by the Treasurer, and it is in the name of the Treasurer, ft is as follows: 
Honourable members may recall that on 6th May last, in reply to a question without notice, I. informed the House that arrangements for distributing the surplus assets of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund to eligible contributors were near completion and that the bulk of the payments should be made some time this month. 1 have now been informed by the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Board that payments will commence next week. 
The surplus assets now being distributed were disclosed by an investigation of the Fund carried out by the Commonwealth actuary in respect of the 5-year period from 1st July 1959 to 30th June 1964. An amount approximating Jim has already been distributed to over 5,600 eligible pensioners. The amount now to be distributed to some 20,000 eligible contributors is in excess of S5m. 
Payment will be made to those eligible contributors who are still members by cheque through their pay stations or through Sub-Treasuries, unless they are serving in Malaysia or Vietnam, in which case payment will be either in cash or by paybook credit. For those who are no longer serving, payment will be by cheque through the Department of Social Services, if the person is now a pensioner, or otherwise by cheque through the DFRB Board. 1 should again mention that not all contributors to the Fund are entitled to participate in the distribution. The persons who will benefit are being notified through their Service department or directly by the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Board. 
 I enter into this debate to deal very briefly with the proposed amendment. We have before us a very dramatic and quite significant, change to the National Health Bill, lt brings into being a quite large area of change, and whether we like it or not. whatever happens in the early days of this concept - and 1 use that word for want of a better term - which is expressed in the Bill will place tremendous demands upon the Department of Health. 1 would not like to see this Bill, when it becomes law in whatever form it ultimately takes, inhibited too much by the application of the regulatory power. I was very impressed with  Senator Byrne's  observations before the suspension of the sitting for dinner that there are huge administrative problems in the present Act, even before we begin to alter it by this Bill. For instance, there are the various funds. There are the big funds, such as the Medical Benefits Fund of Australia and the Hospital Contribution 
Fund of New South Wales, and hundreds of thousands of people subscribe to those funds. A limitless number of contingencies could arise in relation to any one of the subscribers to any one of those funds. From an administrative point of view we want to give very wide administrative authority to the Department, at least in the early stages of the new Act. 
A tremendous change was brought about by the original medical benefits scheme introduced by the late  Sir Earle  Page. But if we had written into that original scheme, restricting or inhibiting regulations, I doubt whether it would have come into being. There has to be a certain amount of trial and error, whether we like it or not. We are legislators, and we can say: 'This has to be done in an Act', or: That has to be done in an Act', or: 'That has to be protected by regulation'. I would say that perhaps in 12 months time we might reach the stage where we can say that in the light of experience a particular area may well be considered to be covered by regulation. We could do that to narrow an administrative area; to make it tighter in terms of legislation by regulation. 
I have had experience of medical and hospital benefit funds. Down through the years as a senator I have made representations on behalf of certain organisations - I am thinking now about some of the smaller ones. If the Department of Health, the Minister for Health and their advisers had not had the authority to have discussions, to make arrangements and to adopt procedures, great hardship would have been experienced by the funds and, ultimately, by the subscribers to the funds. When we are talking about the bigger funds, it is all right, but do not let us forget that some organisations have grown up through the years. One can think of them and can name them. Perhaps they have not been top level funds in terms of administration, but they have given service to thousands of their lodge members and contributors. I would suggest that if, in the early stages, the original scheme had been limited, firstly, by very rigid legislative provision and, secondly, by very strict regulations, the subscribers to the funds would have suffered. 
I understand the principle of doing something by regulation, but in the early stages of this Bill when it becomes law I think there should be fairly tolerant administration which is capable of meeting situations as they arise. Later on, if we want to tighten the field or narrow the scope of the legislation, we can introduce a regulation, but in the early stages 1 think there is a good case for not being too severe in imposing regulatory power which, after all, has to be descriptive. When we put down a regulation we have to be descriptive. Even in my experience I could think of hundreds of areas in which there would be great difficulty in the early stages in doing it by regulatory power. 
I have not seen any subsequent publicity in relation to that aspect of Prime Minister Trudeau's speech. I will seek some further information. As to the general purport of honourable senator's question, I think that because of the protocol involved it should very properly go to the Minister for External Affairs for consideration. 
I reply by saying that no country ever comments on the foreign policy of a friendly nation. What conclusions the honourable senator wants to draw from the foreign policy of Ceylon is a matter for him. Tt would be quite improper for a country which wanted to continue friendly relations with another country to comment upon and judge the foreign policy of that country. 
The Prime Minister has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
I refer the honourable senator lo the answer given to question No. 290 on 2L. May 1970 (Hansard, page 1663). 
 I am sure that all of us, like the rest of the world, have been distressed by the tragedy of the earthquake in Peru. I have made some inquiries from the Department of External Affairs and hope to be in a position to make a statement on the matter later. At this point, however, 1 can only join with the honourable senator, and indeed with all honourable senators, in expressing our profound regret at the tragedy which has occurred there. 
-I ask for leave to make a statement onbehalf of the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  relating to ministerial arrangements. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- There being no objection, leave is granted. 
I wish to inform the Senate that the Minister for the Army  (Mr Peacock)  left Australia yesterday for Tonga.  Mr Peacock  will represent Australia at Tonga's re-entry into the comity of nations and joining the Commonwealth of Nations, which will be celebrated during the period from 4th to 7th June. The Minister is expected to return to Australia on 10th June. During his absence the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  is acting as Minister for the Army. 
I give notice that at the next sitting of the Senate I shall move - 
Unless otherwise ordered, the annual Estimates, as contained in the Papers presenting the Particulars of Proposed Expenditure, shall on motion be referred for examination and report to five Committees, which are appointed by this resolution. The Committees shall deal with the Departmental Estimates as follows: 
Estimates Committee A - 
Department of Supply 
Parliament 
Prime Minister's Department 
Department of Cabinet Office 
Department of Trade and Industry 
Department of External Affairs 
Department of the Treasury 
Department of Defence Estimates Committee B - 
Department of Housing 
Department of Immigration 
Department of Social Services (including Aboriginal Affairs) 
Department of Health 
Postmaster-General's Department 
Estimates Committee C - 
Department of Works (and Tourist Activities) 
Department of Labour and National Service 
Department of Education and Science 
Attorney-General's Department 
Department of External Territories 
Estimates Committee D - 
Department of Civil Aviation 
Department of the Interior 
Department of National Development 
Department of Shipping and Transport 
Department of Customs and Excise 
Estimates Committee E - 
Department of Air 
Departmentof Primary Industry 
Department of the Army 
Department of the Navy 
Repatriation Department. 
Unless otherwise ordered, each Committee shall consist of eight Senators, comprising four 
Government Senators, three Opposition  Senator-.. and  one  Senator from  the minority groups, to be appointed by a subsequent resolution. 
Each Committee shall elect a Government member as Chairman. 
The  Chairman  may from time to time appoint another member of the Committee to be Deputy-Chairman and the member so appointed shall act as  Chairman  of the Committee at any time when the  Chairman  is nol present at a meeting of the Committee. 
In the event of an equality of voting, the  Chairman,  or the Deputy-Chairman when acting as  Chairman,  shall have a casting vole. 
Three members of a Committee shall constitute a quorum. 
A  Senator, though  noi a member of a Committee, may attend and participate in its deliberation's, and question witnesses unless the Committee orders otherwise, but shall not vote. 
The Committees shall sit in open session, unless otherwise ordered, may sit during any adjournment or suspension of the Senate, and may adjourn from time to lime. 
In considering the Estimates, the  Chairman  shall, without motion, call on divisions of expenditure in the order decided upon and declare the proposed expenditure open for examination. 
The Committees may ask for explanations from Ministers of Slate in the Senate, or officers, relating to the items of proposed expenditure. 
The resolution referring the Estimates to the Committees may fix a day for the reporting of their proceedings to the Senate, by which day the final Reports of the Committees shall be brought up. (.12) The Report of a Committee shall be presented to the Senate by the  Chairman  and, if considered necessary, -may propose the further consideration of any particular items. A reservation by any member of a Committee may be added to the. Report 
The Reports from the Committees shall be received by the Senate without debate and their consideration deferred until consideration of the Appropriation Bills. 
A Hansard report of Committee proceedings shall be circulated, in manner similar to the daily Senate Mansard, as soon as practicable after each day's proceedings. 
The foregoing provisions of this resolution, so far as they are inconsistent with the Standing Orders, shall have effect notwithstanding anything contained in the Standing Orders. 
I ask for leave to make a short statement. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - ls leave granted? 'There being no objection, leave is granted. 
The notice of motion as proposed would allow honourable senators to scrutinise estimates thoroughly and in depth before their examination and passage in the Senate. The Government 
Parties appreciate that the committee system in the Senate might well expand in the future but are anxious that any new committee system should work effectively. Therefore it is believed that the Senate would be wise initially to deal with estimates committees, thereby gaining experience and expertise in the new proposed procedure rather than attempt a total committee system and possibly jeopardise irreparably any chance of success of such a committee system in the Senate. 
As the Leader of the Opposition knows, we have industrial laws, which 1 always assumed the Opposition supported, to deal with awards in the fields of industry and commerce. I just wonder whether he is suggesting by implication that he and his Party no longer subscribe to those procedures. In any given circumstances one could go across the board in any community and find what would appear on the surface to be situations where there is imbalance: but that would be a very dangerous thing to use as an argument to destroy something which the political parties, and notably the Australian Labor 
Party, have fought to create since federation - an orderly method of fixing wages and salaries. 
I feel bound to say that the honourable senator gave me some foreknowledge of this question and 1 sought information for him. The Government as yet has not received full and precise details of the action taken by the Canadian Government. However, reports to hand indicate that the Canadian Government has decided to allow the Canadian dollar to float or find its own level. Given the present strength of the Canadian dollar reflected in heavy overseas purchasing of Canadian dollars, the action taken in effect amounts to a revaluation of that currency. Only the passage of time will permit a precise assessment of the impact of this action. However, a revaluation would normally be expected firstly to make Canadian exports more expensive and thus Canadian exports could be expected to be somewhat less competitive in world markets, including Australia; secondly, it would be expected to make imports into Canada more competitive with domestically produced Canadian products, and indeed, imports into Canada from all sources might be expected ro increase. Presumably Australia would share in such an expansion of the Canadian market. 
With regard to the implications of the Canadian action for the International Grains Arrangement, to the extent that this may involve upward revaluation, ibc prices of Canadian wheat exports will increase in terms of foreign currencies. However, it can be expected that the Canadian Wheat Board will take the necessary action to ensure that its prices remain competitive. Finally, as minimum prices for Canadian wheat under the Arrangement are expressed in terms of United States dollars, those prices would not be affected. 
I shall answer the honourable senator's question. It is true that the representative of the Mirage company, Dassault, is in Australia. Indeed, 1 had an appointment with him in his office at 9 a.m. today. It is true that his organisation is putting proposals to the Government for consideration in relation to a number of projects connected with the advanced trainer. Other organisations are also putting proposals to the Government about the trainer. It is equally true that no decisions have been made. Very properly, the Government and the relevant people in the defence complex, the Service departments and my own Department of Supply have to study these proposals. If we were looking at this question in a hypothetical way I would say to  Senator Bishop  and to the Senate that, as we are building the Mirage under licence, if any proposals in relation to a variant of the Mirage are under consideration it postulates that to an even greater extent than when we build the present Mirages under licence we would require that the Australian content be even greater than it is under the existing arrangements. In that way the work would flow into our various aircraft factories. Let us be frank about this. As we are already building Mirages in this country under licence, the French organisation has something to offer in terms of proposals. It is sufficient for me to say that its representatives are at present visiting this country, as representatives of other organaisations visit us from time to time, and they are putting their views to the Government and to the relevant departments as to Australia's future aircraft requirements. Inherent in those views is the concept that Australia will be doing a greater amount of work in relation to these aircraft in its own factories. 
The projected entry or non-entry of the United Kingdom into the European Economic Community is a matter which has been before the eyes of Australia for some years now and which has been constantly under review by this Government. I do not think it  k:  appropriate at question time to say what the implications of such entry would be in certain circumstances. They would depend entirely on whether the United Kingdom entered, under what conditions it entered and whether there were any limiting sanctions in relation to this country. I believe that it would be far better to put the question on the notice paper and to obtain a considered reply. I would not want any answer that I gave to pre-empt any situation that may arise in the future. 
I believe that in any discussions which take place on a Premiers Conference or Australian Loan Council level it would be axiomatic that the Premiers would encompass in their submissions reference to local government because they are in fact responsible for the local government authorities within their States. If they were making submissions in relation to their financial needs, be they in respect of revenue or loans, such an ingredient would be automatically included. 1 cannot conceive of any circumstances in which a Premier would come to the conference table with a lack of knowledge on this aspect or, in fact, a brief which does not include these provisions. I should think that it would be quite inappropriate, when the Commonwealth and the States are holding talks, for the States to be putting a case and then to find thai the people whom they represent and who are sitting behind them want at some stage to go out front of them and muddy the waters, as it were. I would think that the most effective way for the Premiers to deal  with  the matter would bc to have their proper briefs,  which  would automatically contain  representations  in relation to the problems of  local  government. 
The Minister for External Affairs has provided the following consolidated answer to the honourable senator's questions: fi) and f2). Article I of the Geneva Agreement on the Cessation of Hostilities in Vietnam of 20th July 1954, provided that forces of the People's Army of Vietnam (Viet Minh) were to regroup north of a provisional military demarcation line, fixed in part along the Cua Tung River but generally following the alignment of the 17th parallel of latitude, and that forces of the French Union were to regroup south of this line. 
Under Article 14, provision was made for two separate civil administrations in the two regrouping zones. The agreement and the Final Declaration issued by the Conference recognised the provisional character of the demarcation line and that it should not be interpreted as constituting a political or territorial boundary. Nevertheless, developments since 195-1 have proved unfounded the. Conference's conviction thai :he execution of the provisions set mil in the present declaration and in the agreement on the cessation of hostilities creates the necessary basis for the achievement in the near future of a political settlement in Vietnam' (paragraph 6 of the Fina! Declaration). The present reality is thai two separate stales exist, and the division has received wide diplomatic recognition on the pur: of communist as well as non-communist countries. Some 60 countries have recognised South Vietnam, which is also  member of many  oi  the Specialised Agencies of the United Nations, of the International Atomic Energy Agency, and of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. North Vietnam has diplomatic relations wilh more than 20 other countries. The United Nations General Assembly has passed resolutions recognising that the Republic of Vietnam is a peace-loving State qualified for membership of the United Nations. Although the Republic's admission was vetoed by the Soviet Union in the Security Council, the USSR had itself put forward in the General Assembly in January 1967, a draft resolution for the simultaneous admission of both North and South Vietnam, arguing that, as in Korea, two separate States existed with different political and economic structures. 
Yesterday  Senator Bishop  asked me a question concerning the level of employment of skilled staff at Woomera and the Department of Supply's Weapons Research Establishment in the context of the ELDO commitment and the United States and Australian upper space research activities. I  undertook to obtain additional information for the honourable senator and 1 can now tell him that of approximately 100 persons employed by the Department of Supply on ELDO activities in professional, sub-professional, clerical and industrial grades about half are expected to be redeployed at Woomera, Salisbury or elsewhere in vacancies existing or expected to arise in the natural course of events. Woomera experiences a high turnover of industrial staff and it is expected that normal wastage will produce sufficient vacancies to account for the balance of these employees. Therefore we do not expect the persons employed by the Department on ELDO activities will be out of work because of the completion of the firings at Woomera.  I  would point out that there will be a sizeable ELDO disposal programme to be undertaken which will engage the attention of sub-professional, clerical and industrial staff for much of the remainder of 1970. 
The Minister for External Affairs has furnished the following reply: 
The Government does not believe it is appropriate to comment on detailed aspects of the United States Government's conduct of its foreign policy, nor to expand upon President Nixon's statement of 6th April 1970, on United States policy in Laos. 
The Minister for External Affairs has furnished the following reply: 
As the honourable senator will be aware Australia, at the invitation of the Indonesian Foreign Minister, took part in the Conference of Foreign Ministers held in Djakarta on 16th and 17th May to discuss means of ensuring the independence, neutrality and territorial integrity of Cambodia. Amongst other things, this Conference urged the Co-Chairmen and participants in the 1954 Geneva Conference and members of the International Control Commission, set up by the Geneva Conference, to co-operate in reactivating the Commission. The Conference urged the participants in the 1954 Geneva Conference and all other interested parties to consult together with a view to arriving at a concensus for the early convening of an international conference to find a just, peaceful and effective resolution of the present situation. 
In addition, the Conference requested the Foreign Ministers of Indonesia, Japan and Malaysia to consult urgently among themselves and others, as well as with the Co-Chairmen of the Geneva Conference, on ways and means of reactivating the International Control Commission and of convening an international conference, and to initiate discussions with the Secretary-General of the United Nations and the  President  and members of the Security Council with a view to action by the United Nations. 
The Minister for External Affairs has furnished the following reply: 
As the Australian Government understands the matter, neither the authorities of the People's Republic of China nor the government of the Republic  of  China accepts any formula  of  recognition which would deny its claim to sovereignty over both the Chinese mainland and the island of Taiwan. As the honourable senator knows, Australia accords de jure recognition to the government  of  the Republic  of  China. 
On 14th May  Senator Fitzgerald  asked me the following question, without notice: 
Does the Minister representing the Minister for External Affairs recall my question yesterday in which 1 called upon the Australian Government in take immediate steps through every available ch inni-1 to bring to the peace table the warring factions of the Middle East? In view of the renewed turmoil and further threat of hostilities in this area, can the Minister say whether he has any advice, as he promised to secure yesterday, as to what action the Australian Government has taken and, in turn, what plans (he Government has in mind lo attempt, in co-operation with other countries, to bring to an end this conflict which could affect world peace.  1 said that 1 did not have anything further to add to what I had said the day before but I promised to have the honourable members question referred to the  Minister  for External Affairs who has provided the following answer: 
The Australian Government has taken and will continue lo take even' opportunity open lo it, both in the United Nations and elsewhere, lo stress the need tor an end to the violence and destruction brought about by the present conflict in the Middle East. We have also made known, through informal and routine diplomatic channels, to both sides in the dispute, our concern about the present situation, and our belief that the most important first step is the cessation of righting, without which productive negotiations have little chance of success. However, Australia's ability lo take any initiative in the Middle East dispute is limited. Australia is not a member of the Security Council, where the substantive debates on the Middle East situation take place. Nevertheless, the Australian Government will continue to support any constructive measures designed to bring about a ceasefire and a just and lasting solution to the present conflict. 
It is with regret that I inform the Senate that yesterday a former member of the House of Representatives in the person of  Mr Robert  Johua M.C, passed away.  Mr Joshua  was elected to the House of Representatives for Ballaarat in 1951 and 1954 and was defeated in the general election in 1955. During portion of the time that the late  Mr Joshua  was a member of the other place he was Leader of the Australian Labor Party (Anti-Communist). The late  Mr Joshua  had a very fine war record. He was a man who had strong convictions and who brought his convictions to the Parliament where he expressed them vigorously. After passing from the parliamentary scene he was elected  President  of the Australian Democratic Labor Party in 1955 and he remained the  President  of that Party until he passed away. He gave service in accordance with his beliefs to the community, the Parliament and the nation. I think it is very fitting that we in this place should pay our respects to that service and to the man. On behalf of Government supporters in this place I wish to convey to his widow, his son, 5 daughters and about 30 grandchildren our sincere sympathy in the passing of the late Robert Joshua, a loving husband and father. 
 I realise that the Minister for Housing  (Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin)  may want to consider the amendment as circulated, but I shall enter the debate for just a moment. It seems to me that an advisory committee is one thing and that a committee set up to perform a specific function might well be something different. The instrument of government through many departments provides for advisory committees. 1 have many advisory committees in my own Department. Some of the advisers are probably the most important people in the industrial and commercial heart of Australia. A Minister has such people on his advisory committees and he is grateful for their advice. But in the final analysis he reserves unto himself the right to administer an Act of Parliament and to perform his functions. For that reason I find some difficulty in accepting the proposals in the amendment put down a few moments ago by  Senator Greenwood. 
Of course, when we look at the 2 committees, we find that the Minister may or may not accept the advice of the Specialist Recognition Advisory Committees, and that the Specialist Recognition Appeal Committee is set up for the purpose of hearing appeals. 1 was interested to hear  Senator Murphy's  argument, which almost postulated the fact that if the Minister did not like the advice of a committee he could get rid of it.  Senator Murphy  concentrated the main part of his argument on the Specialist Recognition Appeal Committee and indicated that it would seem the Minister has to accept that Committee's advice. He made the suggestion, very gently 1 thought, that if the Minister does not like the advice of the Committee, he could get rid of it. There could well be reasons for the Minister feeling that the time has come for him to remove the members of one of the Committees. But the Minister would not get rid of them capriciously. Proposed new section 29c provides:  (I.) Before making  appointments  to a Committee, the Minister shall request each of the following bodies to nominate a panel of nol less than three medical practitioners for consideration for appointment to the Committee: - 
the  Australian Medical Association; 
the Royal Australasian College of Surgeons; 
the Royal Australasian College of Physicians; 
the Australian Council of the Royal College of Obstetricians and' Gynaecologists; and 
the Royal Australian College of General Practitioners. 
These are the bodies that will nominate people for these committees. The Minister will receive nominations from these bodies which, in fact, are essential to the Minister in the administration of the National Health Act of this nation. So the Minister is not going lo put himself in the position of removing from office a member of a committee unless he has good and valid reasons for doing so. The amendment which has been moved by  Senator Greenwood  suggests that the Minister may remove a member of a committee from office on the basis of misconduct or incapacity. In that case the Minister would find himself in a most difficult situation, because to remove a member of a committee from office the Minister more or less has to assert either that the person is incapable of doing his job or has misconducted himself. It might well be that this would be a barrier to the Minister in fact asking a specialist or a member to retire from an advisory committee, because it is a very grave thing' to have to say to someone: 'We do not want you on the committee because you are incapable or you have misconducted yourself.' I find difficulty in accepting the amendment. 

 Senator Greenwood's amendment seeks to include 2 provisions. The first is that a member of a committee shall hold office for a period of 3 years, and the second is that a member of a committee shall be removed from office by the Minister on the basis of misconduct or incapacity.  I  think that the whole of the Health Act provides for appointments to certain committees. I think this is as far as I want to go. I repeat that many of our statutes contain provision for the appointment of advisory committees. These committees do tremendous work. I think we will weaken these committees and their capacity to give good advice to the Government if we are to provide that the members of the committees stand the risk of being removed from office for misconduct or incapacity. I would think it would be far better for the Minister to have the right either to accept or reject the advice of these committees. T do not think that he should be inhibited in the way in which the amendment seeks to inhibit him. 
I want to make it clear that I am appreciative of the fact that the Committee has gone beyond its normal time, but we are all in this together. We have a job to do and we have a scheduled time when we expect to conclude the sessional period. We are very close to getting the Bill into an amended form in which it can be sent by message to another place. The mechanics of it are that when it goes to another place members of that place will have to make up their minds on what they will do and a report will then come back to this place. It is really important from the Government's point of view to dispose of the Bill tonight. It may be that we could defer this amendment for a little while and deal with  Senator Turnbull's  other 2 amendments. This would give the Opposition time for a quick contemplation of  Senator Turnbull's  first amendment. That may be the solution. But having gone past the normal finishing time of 11 o'clock - it is now 10 minutes to 12 - I think that if we can conclude consideration of this Bill within the next 10 or 15 minutes it would be in our interests and in the interests of all the people who ultimately will benefit from the National Health Bill. 

 Senator Dame IVY WEDGWOOD (Victoria) [11.51] - May I reply to a question raised by  Senator Marriott?  In paragraph 153 of the report of the Senate Select Committee on Medical and Hospital Costs the following appears: 
On the question of cost, the claim has been made, based on treatments for the year 1967-68, and an assumed benefit of 75 cents per treatment, that the cost to the Commonwealth in that period would have been $600,000, and that this would have been offset by other savings, such as less claims for hospital benefits and lower claims for tax deduction. 
That gives some idea of the cost at a figure of 75c. It can be calculated from there. 
1 do not want to insist on anything. I am trying to do it by persuasion. If 1 am forced into the position of insisting, I do not think I will prevail. I put it to the Leader of the Opposition that if he has some problem, he may be able to resolve it while we deal with the other 2 amendments which  Senator Turnbull  proposes to move. 
No division is required. 
Committee will divide. I cannot tell whether it was carried. 
Question resolved in the negative. 
On 21st May,  Senator Wilkinson  asked me the following question, without notice: 
My question is directed to die Minister representing the Prime Minister. As the General Assembly of the United Nations has designated 197! as the International Year for Action to Combat Racism and Racial Discrimination will the Government make an early statement on whether it will actively support this decision, which would be in line with Australia's subscription to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights  1 said that I thought the question should properly be answered by the Minister for External Affairs, who has provided the following answer: 
I refer the honourable senator to the answer which 1 gave to a question without notice in the House of Representatives on 7lh April 1970 (Hansard page 736). I also refer the honourable senator to the answer which I gave lo u question or, notice No. 752 in the House of Representatives (Hansard, page 1772). 
The Prime Minister has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Public Service Board has informed me that it has not promulgated a rule which would prevent a person employed as a motor driver from returning to driving duties after recovering from a heart attack. Each casewould be considered on its merits, taking into account the nature of the attack and any degree of disability resulting from the attack. 
An honourable senator asked me a question and 1 gave him an answer. The supplementary question does not add anything to or change anything in the answer I gave to  Senator Devitt. 
 The powers as they appear in clause 7 (1.) are a standard formulation for all statutory corporations. They do not mean that the Corporation can do virtually what it wishes. In fact, they are very much proscribed by the powers following in clause 7 (2.), that is to say, the powers to borrow moneys and to lend moneys. In any event, the Corporation has only powers to do things in the performance of its functions. Honourable senators will see that it contains a number of restrictions on the Corporation and the Bill taken as a whole puts a limit on the generality of the power as it is expressed in clause 7(1.). As I say all statutory corporations have power in this sense. The Reserve Bank, the Commonwealth Bank and all other statutory corporations have it, 1 think, in identical terms. 
I have discussed with my advisers the matter raised by  Senator Greenwood.  They tell me that it would not be appropriate to include 'subsection (3.)' in clause (5.) (b). I take it that the two things are separate functions. Subsection (3.) refers to one function, and clause (5.) (b) refers to a different function. 
The draftsman's advisers have informed me that in their view it is not appropriate for that reason. 
I cannot add very much. I am assured again by my advisers and the draftsman of the Bill that the Corporation cannot under the terms of sub-clause  (7.)  ignore the provisions of clause  8,  and that sub-clause  (7.)  is included in relation to those people who may feel some reluctance in carrying out transactions with the Corporation because of the very conditions which are required by the clause and which are obligatory on the Corporation. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 9. 
lt is true, as the honourable senator indicated by his question, that it is some time since there has been an adjustment in the overall scale of taxation on incomes earned by personal exertion, lt is also true that the lower and middle income tax group has a genuine claim for consideration - perhaps more than any other group - in relation to the incidence of the tax. It is equally true that the Government and the Prime Minister have indicated that it is their intention to have a review of the scale with particular emphasis on the lower and middle income group. It is also true that the Prime Minister made reference to that in his policy speech. The honourable senator knows as well as I do that traditionally any review of tax is made at Budget time. The Budget session will commence in August. At this moment we are in the throes of trying to complete our tasks in the autumn session. Tn any event, it is not normal practice and no precedents have been established for reference to be made to Budget matters in advance of the Budget session. 
In the first instance the Department of Social Services has the responsibility to consider various aspects of social service benefits. This is done constantly. From time to time various groups and organisations make submissions, theses are written, surveys are carried out, and these are submitted in the normal way to the Department of Social Services which has regard to them. This session of the Parliament has reflected the Government's desire to give to a wide variety of people in the lower income groups social service benefits, fringe health benefits and so on. That is one aspect. 
The honourable senator referred to a submission written by  Dr Clark  on the principle of reverse taxation. That is a matter for the Department of the Treasury. Every field of revenue gathering and revenue rebating is a matter for the Treasury in the first place. There is nothing original in the proposal put by  Dr Clark.  Treasury officials throughout the world are well aware of the reverse taxation theory. It will have its supporters and its critics. I would say yes, the Government does consider all these matters. It has available to it abundant sources of information on every aspect to which the honourable senator referred. 
1 am grateful for the honourable senators question which points up the fact (hat medical expenses are allowable deductions but under section 82f(3.) of the Act ambulance service costs are noi allowable deductions. All I am prepared to do is refer the point to the Treasurer. I take it thai the honourable senator is advocating that ambulance expenses should be allowable deductions. 1 will put this suggestion to the Treasurer as a proposition which is deserving of consideration by him when the Budget is being prepared. 
No, 1 do not. 1 think a considered judgment would have been made in relation to ambulance services. lt may well be thai there is an explanation. I shall inquire about this matter. However, 1 presume that the honourable senator is also advocating that such deductions should be allowable. 
I am grateful to the honourable senator for asking this question. It is true that there was a Senate Select 
Committee on Road Safety. It is also true that it was an all-party Committee and that I had the honour to be  Chairman  of it. The Committee put down a whole series of recommendations but it must be recognised that many of those recommendations related to matters which came within the responsibility of the sovereign States. Indeed the Committee could only make recommendations having regard to where responsibility and sovereignty lay. It is fair comment to say that many of the things recommended by the Committee at that time, which now seems so long ago, have been adopted by the States which have accepted them as pari of their traffic code. It is a fact that the Committee recommended that a research body be set up. It must be understood that the responsibilities of the Commonwealth and the States are drawn together by the Australian Transport Advisory Council of which the Minister for Shipping and Transport is  Chairman.  That body meets every year and draws together the views of the Commonwealth and the States. In addition the Commonwealth during the Budget period and when making other appropriations allocates certain sums of money to the States for road safety. I cannot add very much more at this time, beyond saying that I shall direct the honourable senator's question to the Minister for Shipping and Transport to see whether he feels that there are some pertinent aspects that should attract a reply in this place. 
On 4th March 1970  Senator Milliner  asked me as the Minister representing the Prime Minister if I would institute inquiries into the reason why security police officers recently visited the offices of all Queensland members of the Commonwealth Parliament situated in Brisbane, without first having the courtesy to advise such members of the proposed visit. In reply I said that 1 would seek information. The following answer has been provided by the Attorney-General: 
I  have caused inquiries to be made into this matter and I am informed that on 15th September 1969 officers of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation, by arrangement with the Department of the Interior, carried out an inspection of a number of ministerial suites in the parliamentary offices in Brisbane. The suites inspected were those occupied by the Minister for External Territories, the Minister for Civil Aviation and the Minister for Primary Industry. On the same day inspections were also made of suites located elsewhere in Brisbane that are occupied by the Postmaster-General and the Minister for Housing. I am assured that none of the officers making the inspections entered any office accommodation occupied by private members. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) As the honourable senator will be aware, 1 announced on 5th May on behalf of the Prime Minister the details, which had been agreed between him and the Premier of Queensland, of establishing Commonwealth and State Royal Commissions to inquire into the risk of damage to the Great Barrier Reef from drilling for petroleum. 
The Prime Minister, after making his announcement in another place (House of Representatives Hansard 5th May, 1970, Page 1596), said that it had been some considerable time since it was first decided that such a commission would be set up. The Prime Minister explained that there had been, during that period of time, discussion not only on who should form the members of this commission of inquiry but also some considerable discussion as to just what the terms of reference should be. 
Both the Commonwealth and Queensland Governments were determined that the best men possible should be selected to conduct the inquiry and thatthe terms of reference should be comprehensive enough to allow a thorough examination of this important matter. It is natural that the settling of these matters between the two Governments should take some time. 
I move: 
That the  Bill  be  now  read a second time. 
With the concurrence of honourable senators  I  incorporate my second reading speech in Hansard: 
The purpose of this Bill is to authorise the payment to the States this financial year of special financial assistance totalling $16m. The $l6m is made up of 3 elements: An amount of $12m, to be distributed between the 6 States in proportion to the financial assistance grants payable to them this year under the formula laid down in the States Grants Act 1965- 1 968; an additional grant of$ 1. 5m to Tasmania; further amounts, totalling $2. 5m to compensate the States for the estimated additional interest costs incurred by them up to 30th June 1970 as a result of the removal of the income tax rebate on Commonwealth loan interest in November 1968. 
The grant of $l2m, which represents general budgetary assistance, was announced by the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  at the recent Premiers' Conference in response to representations by the States that they were facing difficult budgetary problems this financial year, due to wage rale increases and other factors. Final estimates of the financial assistance grants payable to each Stale in 1969-70 are not yet available. However, on the basis of present estimates, the distribution of the grant of $ 1 2m would be as follows: 

<graphic href="044232197006045_13_0.jpg"></graphic>

The additional payment of $1.5m to Tasmania represents special assistance of a temporary nature to help the State finance its revenue deficit. Under the procedures of the Commonwealth Grants Commission, Tasmania will not receive the final adjusting part of its special grant in respect of 1969-70 until 1971-72. Theeffect of the extra payment of $1.5m will be to reduce the J 969-70 revenue deficit which the State would otherwise have had to carry until that time. It is part of the understanding between the Commonwealth and the State that the $1. 5m will result in the final adjusting part of the 1969-70 special grant being that much less. 
When the income tax rebate on Commonwealth loan interest was removed in November 1968 it was recognised that this would result in the States having to pay higher interest rates on their borrowing programmes for works and housing. The Commonwealth Government therefore undertook to reimburse the States for the additional interest costs incurred by them up to 30th June 1970. The amounts set out in the Schedule to the Bill represent estimates of the additional cost agreed between each of the States and the Commonwealth. The proposed reimbursements total $2. 5m. The additional costs borne by the States after 30th June1970 will be taken into account in the new grants arrangements between the Commonwealth and the Slates to commence next financial year.  I  commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Willesee)  adjourned. 
in reply - I do not propose to respond at any great length to the second reading debate.  Senator Willesee,  who led for the Opposition, indicated support for the Bill.  Senator Gair,  the Leader of the Australian Democratic Labor Party spoke and indicated support for the Bill.  Senator Cant,  who was- the last  speaker  in the second reading debate, indicated support for the Bill, but then he spoke at length about the capital structure of a lot of companies that have been established during the very dramatic years through which we have been passing in the discovery of minerals and oil. Much of what he said was not directly germane to the Bill. As I said, I do not want to speak at any length in replying to the second reading debate because I believe that the Senate will give passage to the legislation. 

 Senator Willesee recapitulated the details of the Bill and then chose to draw certain conclusions. He really go: into an argument about the inflow of overseas capital into Australia. He almost got to the point of arguing that overseas capital investment in Australia is wrong, that in fact we have been selling our natural assets. I do not think that one can make a judgment on this matter by referring to what happened on a particular day or in a particular year. We must consider overseas investment in Australia in terms of our history.  Senator Willesee  referred to certain statements that have been made on this question by Ministers from time to time. I do not apologise for the fact that I was one who believed that a high level of overseas investment in Australia was an essential ingredient for our development. We would never have achieved the dramatic scale of development that we have had in the last decade had it not been for overseas capital investment in Australia. 1 think that the question which we must ask is this: At what stage of a country's development can it afford to consider resisting overseas capital? The Government believes - and it has set guidelines to which  Senator Cant  himself referred - that we are at a stage of development in our history which justifies our taking steps to ensure that Australian equity in our companies is preserved. But there was a time in our history when 5 million, 6 million, 7 million, 8 million, 9 million or 10 million people could never have provided the sort of capital which we needed for our development. The stage was reached when wc had, very properly, to develop this country by encouraging the inflow of overseas capital. As the development occurred at that time, this overseas investment resulted in overseas companies acquiring equity in Australian companies. So I say that we have to consider these matters in terms of history and development. 

 Senator Cant referred to a particular company. He spoke of the price of the shares of the company when it was floated, and of the price which the shares subsequently reached. Then he referred to the fact that at a certain stage this company offered an Australian equity of 10%, I think he said it was, and shares were offered at a premium of $2.50. The overall point I am trying to make is that  Senator Cant  was comparing the whole history of development of Australia with that particular company. He was referring to a time when money invested in a project could be described as risk capital, and then he referred to another time when 
Australian equity was offered in a company, when it was no longer really risk capital in the sense that there was a guaranteed situation. The company had been floated and had succeeded to the point where it could almost be said to be, as the old saying goes, as safe as the Bank of England. That was the time at which an Australian equity of 10% was offered. 
When we are considering overseas investment in Australia, we have to look not at a particular point of time, but at the whole progress of our development. Who would have thought 10 years ago that there would have been such a dramatic development in Australia? There has been the advent of mineral search and discovery and the advent of search for oil. both on-shore and off-shore. All these things have happened during the time most of us have been members of this Senate. Nobody in his right senses could have imagined that this development would take place. Nobody in his right senses could have imagined that Australia, with its own resources and financial structure, could have made even a modest penetration towards achieving this development. We would not have achieved this development if at a time in that period we had not encouraged a high level of overseas capital investment in Australia. We still need overseas investment in order to maintain our economy. But we have reached the stage - and I should think that there would not be any argument about this point - when we as a nation can now see that we must encourage Australian equity in our projects. The Bill is designed to achieve that objective. 
I want to make only one other point. I think some reference was made to this Bill introducing a form of Socialism. I would have thought that it was a negation of that because the whole concept is to set up an organisation free of Government influence to a high degree which will operate for the purposes which 1 think are spelt out in the Bill in a very simple way. I do not think that at this time I need to develop them any further. All 1 wish to do is thank the Senate for its co-operation in the passage of this Bill. The Opposition will say it is too late, that this should have been done a long time ago and in a more dramatic way but the Government believes it is timely. 
No. 1 think  Senator Webster  dealt with a number of matters in reference to clause 8. 1 will deal with them in the Committee stage. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
Clauses 1 to 6 - by leave - taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 7 (Powers of the Corporation). 
 I will respond to  Senator Greenwood's  request for information on clause 8 and also will refer to matters raised by  Senator Webster  during the second reading debate in relation to the same clause.  Senator Greenwood  asked why the words 'in relation to a particular company' have been used instead of, for instance, 'assistance to a particular company'. The simple answer is that assistance may not always be provided direct to a particular company. To point up the kind of thing that we have in mind let us take the hypothetical case of an Australian company with 30% holding in a $10m venture, the other 70% being held by overseas interests. It is proposed to expand the $10m venture to give it a capital of $50m. Overseas interests will raise the money but the Australian company, if it wishes to do so, can take up a proportion of the new shares to maintain its 30% overall interest. Let us suppose also that the Australian company is unable to do that. In those circumstances it may wish to approach the Australian Industry Development Corporation to help it raise the necessary capital to maintain its 30% holding in the venture. The assistance given by the Corporation is not to the venture but in relation to the venture. It has a relationship to the venture. To cover cases such as that this flexibility has been written into the clause. 

 Senator Webster claimed that clause 8 (3.) will deny opportunities to assist companies because it will be too hard to establish that they will be efficient and profitable. The whole principle of this legislation is that the board is required to make a judgment just as any other private enterprise company is required to make a judgment, just as  Senator Webster  himself in his business is required to make a judgment. It is not the intention of the Corporation to assist projects which it does not judge, after an assessment of feasibility studies and so on, to be competent of management. In other words, it is not being set up for the purpose of providing assistance; it is being set up for the purpose of providing assistance where, in its judgment, that assistance is desirable to make a venture efficient and profitable. It does not have to establish that a venture will be profitable but it has to satisfy itself - this is the distinction I want to draw - that on its own judgment the venture will be profitable. It does not have to satisfy itself according to criteria laid down in the Act or in regulations, but it has a judgment to make. It has to satisfy itself on a judgment based on information reasonably available to it that the venture will be profitable. 
Turning to clause 8 (4.) (a)  Senator Webster  referred to investment in private company or public company shares. The Corporation can assist by investment or loan any company engaged in a venture as set out in the functions laid down. 'Company' is given the widest possible meaning. It includes any corporation and any unincorporated body or association of persons. Hence in thai sense the Corporation may assist a public company, a private company, a partnership, a branch or a joint venture of several firms. Therefore it is not inhibited in that way. 

 Senator Webster said also that clause 8 (5.) should spell out how the AIDC should dispose of its holding of shares. It would be very undesirable to restrict the board on how best to dispose of its shares having regard to the policy and intention of the organisation and its objectives in the development of Australian ownership. That is where the organisation comes into it. For example, in one venture where Australian ownership and control is assured by holdings of Australian companies it might be appropriate to sell shares via the Stock Exchange. That is a judgment that the board has to make. That is why it is so important that we get the best people to join the organisation. To sell in this way might risk the loss of Australian ownership and control through foreign owned companies buying up shares, perhaps adding to holdings they already have in the venture. So the board has to make a judgment when it decides to dispose of shares, lt has to be reasonably satisfied that it is meeting the purpose of preserving and building up Australian equity and Australian ownership. 
The final matter the honourable senator raised was that there should be guidelines as to where the Corporation may invest its idle funds such as in trustee securities. Here again the legislation is drafted to ensure that the directors of the Corporation will be the very best people available for appointment. Naturally it is inherent that they would have all the skills and experience in this field and a knowledge of the day to day working and operation of a huge private enterprise. The Corporation will operate just as any private enterprise venture operates. It must be in a position to make decisions on how it will invest its capital funds to the best advantage. It is not intended to inhibit the board in that judgment because once you start to do that you begin to destroy the real concept of the functions that it will carry out and deter those whom you hope to encourage to lead it. I think that is inherent. Income is important to the Corporation so that, for example, it can give assistance to projects which may take several years to become income earning. To hobble income earning investments by rules or guidelines would restrict the Corporation's capacity to carry out its role. With the assistance of my officers I have tried to capture the tenor of the remarks made by  Senator Webster  and  Senator Greenwood. 
 The point raised by  Senator Wriedt  really gets back to the point about the disposal of shares raised by  Senator Webster.  The Corporation will not be obliged to sell its shares. It certainly would not sell its shares in circumstances in which that action would partially destroy the very purpose of its existence. As 1 explained to  Senator Webster  earlier, the provision has to be left very wide. For instance, to sell to an overseas company an investment in an Australian undertaking the Corporation had acquired would cut right across the purpose of the Bill and the reason for the existence of the Corporation. The short answer to  Senator Wriedt  is that the Corporation is free to make a judgment within the framework of this legislation which sets out its purpose. I could not imagine any circumstances in which the Corporation would be going onto the market to dispose of assets to an overseas investor, when the very reason for its existence is to act in a contrary way. 
I want to make it perfectly clear that in my view  Senator Greenwood  has based his comments  on  a completely false premise. He started off by saying that the policy expressed twin objectives - Australian ownership  anil  sound business principles. This is not so. The purpose of the Bill is to encourage Australian ownership, and sound business principles are written into its function. It is an argument I do not follow. He simply says that we are introducing a Bill to set up sound business principles. The terms of the Bill are quite clear and they have as their purpose the encouragement of Australian ownership. Into the Bill we have written certain safeguards which suggest that sound business principles should be applied. This goes back to where we started in our discussions on clause 8. A judgment has to be made. 1 have had some association with companies, corporations, partnerships and family affairs. They do not have a code which sets down everything to be done. An executive is not necessary if a book of words is to set out everything to be done in all circumstances. Safeguards have been written into the Bill but right throughout a judgment has to be made. I feel that  Senator Greenwood,  in a legal sense, is trying to put things into the Bill which he believes might be safeguards. But I believe, and so would the Government, that such things would act as inhibitions to achieving the purpose of the Bill. There is not a doubt in the world that it has to be that way. The debate on this clause started on the use of the words 'in relation to'. It is not a watertight situation. There are so many variants, one of which I mentioned before; that is, giving a guarantee in relation to a company. These conditions require certain safeguards, but fundamentally there has to be a flexibility of judgment in relation to situations where so many contingencies might arise. 
I am grateful to  Senator Greenwood  for indicating that he had a special interest in this clause. I was able to obtain some facts from my advisers in relation to it. This clause which was amended in another place was inserted only for the protection of a person dealing with the Corporation. There was a very good reason why the clause should be in the Bill. In normal circumstances a lender abroad has to satisfy himself that the borrower has done all things that are necessary to make his actions legal and valid. If we look at the provisions of clause 8 we find a number of obligations and restrictions on the Corporation. I think  Senator Greenwood  referred to them. It would be very difficult to satisfy a foreign lender that each and every one of these obligations, for instance, had been fulfilled. The clause is therefore inserted to put it beyond question that the Corporation in its dealings with others can protect others against legal challenge on the ground that it had not complied with its obligation under clause 8. 
Honourable senators will see that the clause is so drafted as to indicate quite clearly that the Corporation cannot escape its duty to comply with the provisions of clause 8. The purpose of clause 8 (7.) therefore is to ensure that a person dealing with the Corporation is not required to ascertain whether the Corporation has complied with the requirement of clause 8 in relation to that dealing. For example, a person who lends money to an Australian company in reliance upon a guarantee by the Corporation will know that the guarantee is valid - this is the important thing - and that the Corporation cannot escape its liability under the guarantee if it should have failed to satisfy itself under clause 8 (3.) that the company would operate in an efficient manner and on a profitable basis. The provision refers both to contracts with the Corporation such as the contract of guarantee just mentioned and to other things done by the Corporation. The latter reference is to acts other than contracts such as subscribing for shares, making an offer, executing a conveyance or charge transfer, releasing a person from a liability and so on. The Corporation's business would be hamstrung if persons dealing with it were not protected in this way. Clause 8 (7.) in no way affects the duty of the Corporation to comply with its obligation under the clause. 
The Corporation would not enter into an agreement or would not give assistance to an Australian company if it felt there was any risk. That is a matter of judgment. But it may well be that in certain circumstances the Corporation and the Australian component combined could in fact have control. 
It is not desirable.  Senator Georges  wants to import into the Bill a function which is not the intention or the Corporation's prime purpose. He wants to import into the Bill something to say that it should be used as a vehicle to control certain aspects of the sale or disposal of materials, manufactured goods or whatever they may be. That is another purpose of the Bill. The purpose of the Bill is to assist Australian equity into the industry concerned. I sense that  Senator Georges  is looking for some purpose beyond the intention of the legislation. 
 I would say that the point which  Senator Georges  has raised is not completely valid, although he is entitled to interpret the provision as he wishes. Clause 9 does little beyond stating that the Corporation shall be independent of the Government. In respect of its operations, therefore, the Corporation will not be subject to direction by the Commonwealth or anybody on behalf of the Commonwealth. This does not mean, however, that the Corporation will not have to comply with Commonwealth and, for that matter, State laws which apply to the type of business which the Corporation will conduct, lt certainly does not mean that the Corporation will bypass the banking or foreign exchange regulations. The Corporation will, in the same way as any other borrower of foreign currency, have to apply to the appropriate banking institution for the appropriate exemptions. This is the relationship between the Corporation and the Government. It is nothing more than that. I suggest that it is within the character of the whole purpose of this provision that the Corporation shall not be regarded as a Government instrumentality. 
 Senator Greenwood  has pointed out that the Corporation will be a rather unique type of organisation. 1 think the whole matter can be adequately summed up by saying that there is a need for flexibility, particularly in an organisation of this nature. I could give a dissertation on this matter. If the provision were that the remuneration be fixed, as  Senator Greenwood  has suggested, by prescription, there would not be the flexibility that is the very essence of the matter. I do not think that it is desirable to have the rigidity that would occur if the salaries of directors of the Corporation were fixed by an Act of Parliament. 
The Corporation is designed to operate as a private enterprise company. It must have the same flexibility as a normal public company. Only the best qualified people should occupy places on the Board. These people will be, in the main, drawn from the fields of private industry, finance and commerce. The Corporation should be able to negotiate salaries in order that it will get the best people available. Of course, it will have to negotiate in competition with other private enterprise companies moreover, the membership of the Board must be flexible, which is the theme 1 referred to earlier, lt is essential to have on the Board at all times members who have the right training and a mixture of complementary skills, with each individual being eminent in his own field. In this way the members will comprise a team which can and will work together to give the Corporation the skilful and effective management it needs. Without going into the other notes 1 have in front of me, I think I have really captured the intention of the proposal. 
 Senator Greenwood  has suggested that the corporation should be required to furnish its report within a certain time. This is not a requirement that other statutory corporations have to fulfil. This obligation is not imposed upon them. The honourable senator is suggesting something which is not normally required of a corporation. However, I feel that he believes that a corporation might deliberately delay a report to the Auditor-General or to whoever the report has to be made. I suppose this could easily happen with the establishment of a new corporation. Naturally, in the formative period of any organisation there would be a lot of loose ends which of necessity would have to be tidied up. But ultimately a corporation or a company or a statutory authority will fall into a normal pattern, and once it does this and becomes organised, that is the path which normally it would be expected to follow. The reason why a fixed date for the submission of a report would be undesirable is that the preparation of the report depends upon the co-operation of so many people outside the Corporation, such as auditors and accountants, ft is felt, particularly in the formative period of this 
Corporation, that it would be most undesirable to impose a time limit on the submission of a report. 
As to the Treasury's requirements in the preparation of financial statements, I have been informed that such requirements are very comprehensive and rigid. All I can say to  Senator Greenwood  is that if at some future stage in the Corporation's history it is thought thai there are some shortcomings, steps will be taken to rectify the situation. 1 think it would be disastrous to include a particular requirement in the Bill at a lime when the Corporation is coming into being. Let us face it: In the formative period of the Corporation a lot of information will be required by the Treasury and by the directors of the Corporation. We must remember that we are considering the creation of what is in fact a quite unique corporation. Whilst I am grateful to  Senator Greenwood  for raising these points, 1 really do nol think that we should interfere with the present drafting of the Bill. 
I.8.4J - I should like to speak to the motion for the suspension of the Standing Orders. I wholeheartedly agree with the proposal of the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy),  that his motion under General Business, notice of motion No. 5 under Government Business and Order of the Day No. 23 should be discussed in a cognate debate. I really think that we need to have a motion before the Chair for the purpose of debating these matters, because if we do not we will have a discussion which in form has some unusual features about it. I do not imagine that such revolutionary proposals as we are discussing will be resolved very quickly. Probably we will need to devote to this question a much longer period of time before we rise for the winter recess. Perhaps it would be logical at this point of time to have a debate on the basis of the morion that the Senate take note of the papers - the papers being the motion moved by  Senator Murphy,  the motion moved bv myself, and Order of the Day No. 23. 
If we do not do that, we will be in the situation where  Senator Murphy  will have, to move his motion, I will have lo move my motion, and then as Leader of the Government in the Senate 1 will have to introduce Order of the Day No. 23. lt would facilitate debate at this point of lime if we had a motion before the Chair to which we could address ourselves. We could deal with this matter by discussing a motion that the Senate take note of the papers. 
I have a dual responsibility in this debate. I have the responsibility as the Leader of the Government in the Senate to speak to the proposals outlined by  Senator Murphy.  1 want to speak to the proposals put down myself and 1 have a responsibility to bring to the consideration of the Senate the report from the Standing Orders Committee relating to standing committees which was tabled by the  President  and which is Order of the Day No. 23 on the notice paper.  Senator Gair,  the Leader of the Australian Democratic Labor Party has indicated that he wishes to speak. 1 have been given a copy of his set of proposals which I presume he will move and speak to after I have concluded, in fairness to  Senator Murphy  and myself 1 feel bound to say that since we are speaking before the Leader of the DLP has put his proposals it may be that we will want leave at some subsequent stage in the debate to advert to his proposals. I am sure the Senate will agree to that as a reasonable proposition. it should be made clear at the outset that there is a commonalty of view in relation to this proposal, a view which postulates some form of committee work for the future management of the Senate in addition to the work we are already doing. Before I speak to the substance of the proposals I think I have an obligation to refer to Order of the Day No. 23, Government Business, which was the report from the Standing Orders Committee relating to standing committees. The report was tabled on 17th March 1970. I think I should bring out the points of the Clerk's proposals which were put to the Standing Orders Committee. They should be put down in a recorded form so that they will not be lost in any debate which we have. Then 1 wish to speak in the generality to my own proposals and theo speak generally to the 3 proposals. The report states: 
During the 26th Parliament the Standing Orders Committee began a consideration of the standing committee system and that consideration has continued during the present 27th Parliament 
To assist a consideration of this matter,  the  Clerk of the Senate was asked lo prepare a Report on Standing Committees. The Report was submitted in three Paris, dated November 1969, January and March 1970, respectively. 
The Standing Orders Committee resolved  that  the Clerk's Report be referred to the Senate for consideration. The Report is appended.  1 hope all honourable senators have a copy of the document. They can call for it and have it with their papers for any discussions we are having in these matters. The report continued: 
The Committee makes no recommendation in regard to the Clerk's Report and submits it without comment. 
All honourable senators know who were the members of the Committee. They were the  President (Sir Alister McMullin)  who presided, myself as the Leader of the Government in the Senate, the  Chairman  of Committees  (Senator Bull),  the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy),  and Senators Cavanagh,  Sir Magnus  Cormack, Lacey, Withers and Wright. 1 will read the introduction to the report which sets the pattern, lt states: 
In August 1969 the Standing Orders Committee asked the  Clerk  of the Senate to submit a Paper on Standing Committees. 
The essence of the Report is thai a  standing  committee system is standard and essential equipment of the modern legislature. Work-load alone is a compelling reason. Equally important to Parliament in its consideration of public affairs is that the legislature may, through its committees, call upon scholarly research and advice equal in competence to that relied upon by the Government. 
The report had Part 1 which was superceded by Part 2, and Part 3 tended to summarise the position. In essence the proposal was that 6 standing committees should be set up for the allocation of departmental estimates and that there should be a standing committee on statutory corporations. That is, there would be 6 legislative and general purpose standing committees and a standing committee on statutory corporations. It was recommended that consideration of the Standing Orders be amended to provide that at the commencement of each Parliament the following 6 standing committees be appointed to deal with Bills and other matters: The Standing Committee on External Affairs and Defence; the Standing Committee on Transport and Communications: the Standing Committee on Trade. Industry and Labour: the Standing Committee on Legal. Constitutional and Home Affairs; the Standing Committee on Health. Welfare. Education and Science; and the Standing Committee on National Finance and Development. As I said, a standing committee to examine statutory corporations would also be set up. The report states: 
The six legislative and general purpose standing committees would cover the activities of all the departments of government and would stand ready to consider any Bills. Estimates, petitions, inquiries, papers or other matters which the Senate may refer to such committees, on motion. 
Let me now take a couple of general comments out of the report. It makes reference to what has happened in other countries such as the United Kingdom, Canada and New Zealand, lt also states: 
If legislative committees of the Australian Senate were appointed, it is unlikely that a great many Bills would bc referred to the committees. A number of Bills are of a machinery nature and attract no debate in Committee of the whole. In 1 969, as an illustration, 75% of Bills were agreed to in Committee of the Whole without any debate, lt is important, therefore, that Bills should not be referred automatically, but only by resolution of the House. If desired, the resolution may impose a time limit for inquiry and report. 
The report then makes reference to comparisons with other countries. It is a comprehensive report. I believe that in fairness 1 should say - this is agreed here tonight - that in any consideration of this matter the report by the  Clerk, Mr Odgers,  should be given consideration. 
Having said that. I turn lo the motion of which I gave notice several days ago. lt includes a fairly simple explanation of the mechanics. I think that can be disposed of before I speak to the substance of the motion. Whereas the Odgers recommendation provides for 7 standing committees including the one on statutory corporations, my proposal is directed to a consideration of the Estimates, with which in normal circumstances we deal twice a year. We deal with them during the Budget session, when we deal with them in depth and in great detail. We also deal with them in the autumn session in the form of supply Bills in which provision is made for five-twelfths of the year ahead. 
I would like to develop the background before I come to the substance of the matter. My proposal provides for Estimates Committees A, B, C, D and E. In fact in can be easily understood by honourable senators because the Committees follow the representations by Ministers in this place. For instance, Estimates Committee A would cover the department that I, as Leader of the Government, represent in this place, namely, the Department of Supply, the Parliament, the Prime Ministers Department and the Departments of the Cabinet Office, Trade and Industry, External Affairs, the Treasury and Defence. Al the other end of the list, Estimates Committee E would cover the Departments of Air, Primary Industry, the Army and the Navy and the Repatriation Department. They are the departments represented by the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman). 
Yes, with which we normally deal twice a year. 
No, they are limited to the Estimates. Then the prodecural matters are dealt with in paragraphs (2) to (15). I think it could be said for the purposes of the debate here tonight that broadly they cover the same sort of mechanical machinery as do the proposals made by the Leader of the Opposition. I do not propose to discuss them because I do not think that is the issue at the moment. In fact, they provide the normal machinery for the management of committees. They provide, of course, that the Government shall have a majority on each committee. They also make provisions in respect of quorums, the appointment of chairmen and all the other normal things. 
Therefore, at this point of time we are confronted with 3 proposals, with 1 yet to come. I want to speak to the 3 now. Very naturally,  I  will want to speak later to the fourth, when  Senator Gair  brings it forward. I make the point, first of all, that what  Senator Murphy  said earlier would probably be quite true: If we were just having a vote in the general sense on whether we believe that there is a case for the appointment of additional committees, I do not think there would be any argument or any different view. The proposal made by the Leader of the Opposition goes a certain distance. The one made by the Leader of the Government goes a certain lesser distance; and the Odgers proposal goes a greater distance in some respects but a lesser distance in others. 
I wish to draw one significant fact to the minds of honourable senators. The Senate is the second chamber and, whether this Government remains in office  -  I nope that it will do so for many years to come - for a quarter of a century or any other period, I believe that we can accept the inevitability of the fact that as long as we have a Cabinet system with a bicameral system, with the other House being the executive house in that sense, there will never be in this place any more than a certain fraction or percentage of the members of the Cabinet and the Ministry. As honourable senators know, at the present time in a Ministry of 26 there are 5 Ministers in this chamber. I believe that we all accept the general principle that the Senate inevitably will have only a limited number of the total number of Ministers in any Parliament. 
The honourable senator did nol listen to what I said, and now he interrupts. I said that the Senate must always have a certain percentage - whether the number is 5, 6, 7 or 8 - of the number of Ministers in the 2 Houses. That is axiomatic. I do not think it needs to be argued. At the present time we have 5 Ministers here. In order to appease  Senator Georges  I will call it 7 if he likes, but that is not relevant to the argument, I suggest with great respect. 
I am making a very important point. I suggest that honourable senators let me make it. If they speak later they may attack it if they like The fact is that the Senate will have only a certain percentage of the number of Ministers in the 2 Houses. Therefore, the proposal that I have made postulates that when we do have committees they will fall into line with the responsibilities of the Ministers of the Executive Government who sit in this place. When a proposal is made for a series of committees which not only will relate to those responsibilities of Ministers but also spread out into other portfolios, I say with great respect that it is just not humanly possible, lt would not weaken my argument if there were 7 or 8 Ministers in the Senate instead of the 5 Ministers we have at present as long as there are 26 portfolios in the Ministry. It may be necessary in the future to have a much larger Ministry. This would only make the problem greater because of the fact that there are only 60 senators in this chamber at present. 
I believe that any new proposal in relation to a committee system will place greater responsibility upon the honourable senators who conduct the affairs of this place and will create additional problems. That is why the proposal I have put down in relation to the Estimates has been geared to the group of portfolios for which each Minister in this chamber is responsible. During question time honourable senators put questions to Ministers in this chamber on all sorts of subjects. Sometimes honourable senators are aggrieved when they do not receive a reply, but for the most part they recognise that Ministers in this chamber cannot give answers off the cuff in relation to many subjects for which a Minister in another place is primarily responsible and for which they are responsible in this chamber. I believe that if additional responsibility is placed upon Ministers in this chamber the system would be unworkable. The Odgers proposal and the Leader of the Opposition's proposal are for a series of committees which are not, in some cases, definitive. For example, a standing committee on constitutional and legal affairs has been proposed. I have been through the mill today dealing with just one Bill which involved some legal problems. I found it to be quite an ordeal. 
I was going on to say that yesterday and the day before as well as the previous week of the sitting the Senate debated the National Health Bill, which has involved all sorts  of  implications and ordeals. I would suggest that if  Senator Murphy's  proposal for a wide ranging standing committee on constitutional and legal affairs were to be accepted- 
 Senator Little  suggests that we should put all the lawyers on such a committee and lock the door and hope and pray. I hope I am not being offensive to them. A standing committee on foreign affairs and defence has been proposed. Because these subjects cover such a broad spectrum the proposed standing COm.mittee would bc a colossus. The same position applies wilh some of the other proposals. 
If honourable senators look at the notice paper of the Senate, and I am sure all honourable senators have one on their desks, in front of them they will find that there are no less than 16 committees constituted at present. 1 have taken into consideration the standing committees, the joint statutory committees, the joint committees and the Senate select committees. In other words, there are no less than 16 committees on which some of the 60 senators in this chamber are required to sit. One has to lake into consideration also that the 60 senators include the Presiding Officer and the  Chairman  of Committees, 5 Ministers, the Leader of the Opposition and the  Deputy  Lender of the Opposition, the Leader of the Australian Democratic Labor Party and 3 Whips. 
I will come to the question of whether they meet in a moment. The honourable senator should not try to anticipate what I am going to say. He has made me forget the number  of  office bearers I have named. Perhaps I had better start again. 
Thank you. This is another example of the responsibility which will be imposed on the remaining honourable senators.  I  forgot to mention  Senator Turnbull.  I do not think he is  a  member of any committee at the moment. Anyway, out of  a  strength of 60 honourable senators one has to take something like 1 6. which represents the number of honourable senators who have higher responsibilities in relation to the management of the Senate. 
Yes. In addition, one has to take into account that some of those 44 honourable senators are already members of committees of some nature.  Senator Cavanagh  interjected earlier and said that some of these committees to which I have referred do not sit. I shall go through the committees which are listed in the notice paper. 
Do not anticipate what I am about to say. One has to take everything into consideration. The first committee which is listed in the notice paper is the Standing Orders Committee. Does any honourable senator suggest that it does not sit? I think its membership is S honourable senators. 
 Senator Cavanagh  is a member of the Standing Orders Committee. He has a very good attendance record at its meetings. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)-  Order! 
 I would suspect,  Mr Deputy President,  that when the pressure is applied the interruptions come in hard and fast in an attempt to bury the substance of what I am saying. I have put an 'A' next to the Standing Orders Committee to indicate that it is active. The next one is the Privileges Committee. I have left a blank beside  it  because it does not sit. I have put an 'A' beside the Library Committee because  it  is active. The Printing Committee and the Regulations and Ordinances Committee are also active. 
Yes. They put down reports in this chamber. T should imagine that the Regulations and Ordinances Committee is very active. I was a member of the Disputed Returns and Qualifications Committee for 12 years and it never sat. Therefore, I have regarded it as being inactive. The Broadcasting of Parliamentary Proceedings Committee never meets. I think the Public Accounts Committee meets at least every Monday morning and sometimes it meets on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday mornings when it has plenty of work on its plate. T was a member of the Public Works Committee. I notice some honourable senators in the chamber who were also distinguished members of this Committee. The Public Works Committee is a very active Committee. It goes all over Australia. In fact. [ believe that it has gone to New Guinea since I left it. 1 believe that the Joint Committee on the Australian Capita! Territory is active. The Foreign Affairs Committee is very active. The Joint Committee on the New and Permanent Parliament House is active. 
Honourable Seniors - Oh! 
It presented a report on 8th April 1970. Perhaps I was reading too quickly, but I think I read in the newspapers today a report of a suggestion to reactivate it. The Senate Select Committee  on  Off-Shore Petroleum Resources is a most active one. The Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution is, I understand, most active. 
Yes, it has been active for 18 months. The Senate Select Committee on Medical and Hospital Costs finished up the other day. It has tabled its report. The Senate Select Committee on Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse is active. The Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange is active. Having disposed of the committees which appear in the notice paper, I turn to the notices of motion which appear under General Business in the notice paper. I find that notices of motion have been given for the setting up of Senate select committees. 
I see. We are going to trim our sails to meet the breeze. I am not criticising it, but it is a fact of life that notices of motion have been placed on the notice paper for the creation of new Senate select committees. This brings me to the point I want to make,  Mr Deputy President.  The Government believes that there is a need to look at the question of the setting up of Senate select committees on the basis of our capacity to cope with them. I do not know what happens on the Opposition side of the ship, but I do know that a tremendous strain is placed upon honourable senators on this side of the chamber. I have no doubt that the Opposition is experiencing the same difficulty in relation to the manning of Senate select committees. In considering this proposal let us take as a beginning the proposed Estimates committee. There would not be one honourable senator in this place who would not agree with me that the most difficult time that we have in this place is when we are dealing with the Estimates. During that debate a Minister will sit at the table while the Committee goes through the estimates for one department after another. In the case of the Leader of the Government- 
If the honourable senator stays with this debate he will do better. The fact of the matter is that the Leader of the Government has responsibility during the Estimates debate for 5 Government departments, in addition to which he deals with the estimates for the Department of the Cabinet Office and the Parliament. So in total he is responsible for the estimates of 7 different bodies. During that debate any honourable senator at any tick of the clock, particularly when the proceedings are being broadcast, will stand up and say: 'Last year we spent $196,000 on item 54321; next year the proposed expenditure is $242,050. Why?' The Minister is expected to be able to give an answer immediately. If he cannot answer the question  Senator Turnbull  embarks on a really severe criticism and says: 'What is the Minister doing? He should know all these things.' When the Leader of the Government has finished dealing with the Department of Supply he may then have to deal with the Parliament and he is asked questions about that. He could be asked why a certain employee had been dismissed at a certain time in a certain area up near Bullamakanka, and where the reference to this is to be found in the Estimates. He will want an answer to his query. 
I think this could be the reason - particularly for the Leader of the Government. The point I am making is that as a start to the proposed committee system we should begin the exercise by dealing with the Estimates. We would all agree that the present method of dealing with the Estimates is unsatisfactory. We would be able to deal with the Estimates in a far more practical way by referring them first to a committee where many of the pedestrian inquiries could be resolved after which the committee could report back to the Senate where in our discussions we could make a more direct and profound contribution to aspects of the Estimates or appropriation Bills. 
The situation certainly could not bc worse than it is at present. I ask the honourable senator to consider the questions that are asked during the debate on the Estimates. When it comes to asking questions,  Senator Webster  is no exception. 
Both the questions and the answers. J suggest that a system could be devised by which we could cut out in the Senate much of the pedestrian detail. An Estimates committee would be provided wilh officers who would not be obliged to sit in a box almost on top of each other in the corner of the chamber, trying to work on papers and to gather information so that it is available the moment that a senator sits down. The officers would be able to work in a committee room where they could operate far more intelligently and with much greater application than at present. 
I think that much of the work that we now do in the Senate chamber could be dealt with in the committee stage, after which a report would be brought into the Senate, lt is almost certain that there would be some mutter brought up in the committee stage in respect of which someone would feel that greater explanation would be required. When we came into the Senate a senator would have a proper right to raise a matter again and it would be discussed in this place. In this way the debate on the Estimates in the Senate would be on a far broader canvas than at present, lt is the Government's opinion that it is loo soon to adopt the complete proposal suggested by the Leader of the Opposition and too soon to adopt the complete proposals suggested in the Odgers report. However, as a first exercise, it is suggested that we could deal with the Estimates in a committee stage. Ii would not take long to discover how effective the system was because we would be dealing wilh the Estimates as a result of messages from the other place and in a matter of a fortnight or 3 weeks at the most we would have a much better appreciation of how effective the system would be. I think it is true that if the Senate were to embark on all the proposals which have been projected by the Leader of the Opposition and which appear in the Odgers report, instead of doing something to improve the parliamentary system in the Senate we would run the terrible risk of prejudicing the ultimate success of the proposals. I believe that gradualism should be the order of the day when embarking on the committee system. 
It is a conservative approach, but I believe that it may well be the most effective approach in this place. The honourable senator may call that conservatism, but I call it realism. 
Now we hear the opposite.  Senator Cant  says that it is  conservatism but  Senator Cavanagh  suggests that the Estimates would be the most difficult matter to deal with, so we have 2 points of view from honourable senators opposite. The system proposed will involve a revolutionary change and I suggest that it would be very unwise to adopt all the proposals at this time. I remind honourable senators that standing order No. 196 states that any Bill at any time may be referred to a committee of the Senate. 1 do not want to say very much more at this point. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Is it the Minister's intention to move this as a motion? 
Yes, although I did not think we had reached the stage where we had agreed what we were going to move. 
How do we put  Mr Odgers'  proposals before the Senate? 
I do not know whether  Senator Cant  was here when we discussed this matter at 8 o'clock tonight. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Order! Because the Standing Orders have been suspended  Senator Anderson  will be in order in moving the motion. 
In that case so we will have 2 motions before the chair, I move: 
That: 
Unless otherwise ordered, the annual 
Estimates, as contained in the Papers presenting the Particulars of Proposed Expenditure, shall on motion be referred for examination and report to five Committees, which are appointed by this resolution. The Committees shall deal with the Departmental Estimates as follows: 
Estimates Committee A- 
Department of Supply 
Parliament 
Prime Minister's Department 
Department of the Cabinet Office 
Department of Trade and Industry 
Department of External Affairs 
Department of the Treasury 
Department of Defence 
Estimates Committee B - 
Department of Housing 
Department of Immigration 
Department of Social Services (including Aboriginal Affairs) 
Department of Health 
Postmaster-General's Department 
Estimates Committee C - 
Department of Works (and Tourist Activities) 
Department of Labour and National Service 
Department of Education and Science 
Attorney-General's Department 
Department of External Territories 
Estimates Committee D - 
Department of Civil Aviation 
Department of the Interior 
Department of National Development 
Department of Shipping and Transport 
Department of  Customs  and Excise 
Estimates Committee E - 
Department of Air 
Department of Primary Industry 
Department of the Army 
Department of the Navy 
Repatriation Department. 
Unless otherwise ordered, each Committee shall consist of eight Senators, comprising four Government Senators, three Opposition Senators, and one  Senator from  the minority groups, to be appointed by a subsequent resolution. 
Each Committee shall elect a Government member as Chairman. 
The  Chairman  may from time to time appoint another member of the Committee to be Deputy-Chairman and the member so appointed shall act as  Chairman  of the Committee at any time when the  Chairman  is not present at a meeting of the Committee. 
In the event of an equality of voting, the  Chairman,  or the Deputy-Chairman when acting as  Chairman  shall have a casting vote 
Three members of a Committee shall constitute a quorum. 
A  Senator, though  not a member of a Committee, may attend and participate in its deliberations, and question witnesses unless the Committee orders otherwise, but shall not vote. 
The Committees shall sit in open session, unless otherwise ordered, may sit during any adjournment or suspension of the Senate, and may adjourn from time to time. 
In considering  the  Estimates, the  Chairman  shall, without motion, call on divisions of expenditure in the order decided upon and declare the proposed expenditure open for examination. 
The Committees may ask for explanations from Ministers of Stale in the Senate, or officers, relating to the items of proposed expenditure. 
The resolution referring the Estimates to the Committees may fix a day for the reporting of their proceedings to  the  Senate, by which day the final Reports of the Committees shall bc brought up. 
The Report of a Committee shall be presented to the Senate by the  Chairman  and. if considered necessary, may propose the further consideration of any particular items. A reservation by any member of a Committee may be added to the  Report. 
The Reports from the Committees shall be  received  by  the  Senate without debate and their consideration deferred until consideration of the Appropriation Bills. 
A Hansard report of Committee proceedings shall be circulated, in manner similar to the daily Senate Mansard, as soon as practicable alter each  day's  proceedings. 
The foregoing provisions of this resolution, so far as they are inconsistent with the Standing Orders, shall have, effect notwithstanding anything contained in  the  Standing Orders. 
I presume  Senator Gair  will also move his motion. Then we will have 3 motions before the chair. Then the proposal of the  President  will be put, so we will have 4 motions. This is the sort of situation that I foresaw when we began this debate at 8 o'clock. In Australia we have a parliamentary system which is shaped and formed broadly on the Westminster system. The committee system which is suggested is rather a movement away from that in some respects, particularly when it comes to the passage of Bills through a committee stage and then a review of them. We would not want to see Bills being constantly referred to a committee.  Senator Murphy  has said that it would not happen constantly and that only some would be referred, but I have been long enough in this place to know that politics are played by the rules of politics. Do not let us kid ourselves about that. I remind the Senate that it was played that way in 1951 when the Labor Party moved that a Bill be referred to a committee. The matter was left there for such a time that it failed to pass and formed the background for a double dissolution which occurred at that lime. 
Yes, that is the point. Let us not become too self-righteous about a committee system because the facts of life are that when the chips are down and we are playing politics, although we might be very courteous we play the game pretty hard. If the Opposition wants to delay a Bill for any variety of reasons, it can always move that it be referred to a committee. Honourable senators opposite should not kid themselves or try to kid me on thai one. 
There is an overwhelming desire in this place to introduce some system which will improve the procedures of the Senate, and it is believed that a committee system will do just that. My motion contains a proposal of gradualism which would enable us to establish committees firstly in the Estimates area where we will have immediate problems arising in the Budget session. That would be a nice testing ground to see how the committee system works. 1 envisage that after the system is tested there will not be so much talk about the establishment of select committees and that when the present select committees have completed their job, further select committees will not be appointed. More honourable senators will want to join the permanent committees and everybody will love everybody. This is what might happen. 
Because of  Senator Willesee's  interjection. I repeat that I believe that the standing committee system will be introduced in the Senate, and I believe that if we play our cards gradually and do not try to rush our jumps we will get a good system. But we will destroy the whole concept if we try lo speed the process up, do too much too soon and impose a tremendous burden upon all honourable senators. I believe that in this day and age, with a Senate of only 60 members, we are carrying a tremendous burden, and I do not believe that we should overload ourselves any further. 
It is true that the Australian Government made representations and expressed its views on nuclear testing by the French Government in the Pacific. I would not like to comment on any suggestion in the Senate of Australia about the association between nuclear testing in the Pacific and the earthquakes which have happened in Peru. I remember that when man first went to the moon and there was a big storm afterwards someone suggested it was probably because of man's activities in outer space. The honourable senator has put his question forward seriously and I will certainly have it referred to the appropriate department. I would just like to repeat what I said the other day: The world at large is shocked and aggrieved by the stark tragedy of what has happened in Peru. However, I will put the question to the appropriate department. 
I ask the honourable senator to put the question he has just asked on notice because this is the normal procedure in relation to questions put to me for transmission to the Prime Minister and, indeed, other Ministers. 
It is true that last year Carlton and United Breweries Ltd received a grant of $31,440 from the Australian Industrial Research and Development Grants Board. It is not true that the company received the grant because of a breakthrough in the manufacture of hop extract. It received the grant because it had increased the level of its total industrial research and development expenditures and was eligible for a grant from the Board which is vested with the authority to implement the provisions of the Industrial Research and Development Grants Act. The Grants Board is an independent body whose decisions are not subject to the concurrence of the Minister. I understand that to date a total of 43S Australian manufacturing and mining companies have qualified for such grants. 
The objective of this policy is to provide an incentive to Australian manufacturing and mining companies to spend more of their own funds on increased industrial research and development leading to more efficient and less costly methods of production and, in particular, the more efficient se of Australian raw materials and resources. I understand that the  Chairman  of the company has said that the research involved the development of an improved process of extracting resins from natural hops. A question has been asked in another place of the Minister for Trade and Industry about the effect this technological development is likely to have on the hop growers of Tasmania. I understand that the Minister has not yet completed his inquiries. As soon as I am in a position to do so I will give the honourable senator a further reply to his question. 
(10.49]- On behalf of the Opposition,  Senator Bishop  moved an urgency motion which referred to the failure of the Government to promote the design and construction of Australian aircraft and helicopters for defence and commercial purposes. In his speech he confused the situation even more by devoting quite a period of time to procurement outside the aircraft industry itself. I think his perimeters are too wide for a purposeful debate. The production of defence aircraft is one thing, and in a sense Australia's capacity in relation to commercial aircraft is another. They may be related but when one starts talking about procurement in fields outside the aircraft industry and links it to the aircraft industry the situation becomes rather confused. 
It is true that I made a statement in this place on the defence aircraft industry some time ago, perhaps a month ago.  Senator Bishop  and several other honourable senators on the Opposition side, as well as on the Government side, have from time to time sought information at question time in relation to the problems of the industry. I think it is fair to say that never at any stage have I walked away from the problem - and there is a problem in the aircraft industry. The problem is not peculiar to Australia but exists all over the world. JJ honourable senators went to Seattle in North America they would see the position in the Boeing group, probably the biggest aircraft group in the world. If they went to the British Aircraft Corporation in England they would find that it has a problem. The Avions Marcel Dassault company in France has its problems on the order book, as has the Italian manufacturer of the Macchi aircraft. 
The problem is that the world desire to place orders is such that all the aircraft industries are finding difficulty in the maintenance of their structure. Representatives have visited Australia. As late as this week representatives from the Dassault company were here. In reply to a question recently I pointed out that that company is seeking more orders for its aircraft. A month would not go by without people coming to Australia seeking information as to the possibility of entering into arrangements with Australia for the production of aircraft. 
This is a little difficult. I have only a half an hour and I have to concentrate my thoughts on the case. It is certain that world-wide problems exist in the aircraft industry. The Australian Government, as I have stated, has a policy to preserve a viable aircraft industry, and the problems associated with it are obvious to us all. Australia has government aircraft factories. In addition to that there are commercial aircraft industrial groups, but these groups depend overwhelmingly on government orders and government capability. It is not just a case of preserving the Government Aircraft Factories. If we are going to preserve a viable aircraft industry in Australia we have to try to provide a work load for the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation Pty Limited, Hawker de Havilland Aust. Pty Ltd and other associated industries. This has been the objective for as long as I can remember, and certainly during the period that we have had this industry. We are providing the highest possible level of work and activity for these various groups. 
I want to come back to the question of our capability. I would not want to be thought to be one who would stand up and say that we have not a capability. We have a capability. We have proved that. Our capability has been demonstrated by what we have been able to do. The fact that we build, under licence, the Mirage aircraft, which has a very high Australian content, is evidence of our capability. The fact that we built the Macchi aircraft under licence from the Macchi company in Italy - that aircraft also has a high Australian content - is proof of our capability. The fact that we have done so well with the Ikara, the Jindivik and other projects which have become income earners for Australia is proof of our capability. I want to make it clear that I have never at any stage suggested an Australian incapacity in any way. 
But we must come back to the economics of the situation. It is all right to suggest by implication that we could build Boeings. DC9s and aircraft such as those. If we could - I have no doubt that we could, at a cost - because of our requirement the sheer economics of it would be completely absurd. 
That was almost the implication in what the honourable senator said in his opening remarks. Putting our capability aside for one moment, it would be sheer economic lunacy for us to attempt to do that. Therefore, we have to fill our order book with something within our capacity in terms of the economics of the situation having regard to our own requirement, and also try to obtain outside orders. 
Some reference has been made to the question of an advanced trainer. My Department has been doing a study of this. As a matter of fact I made a statement in this chamber on an advanced trainer recently. We did quite a lot of work in relation to a possible local design study on it. We were doing that in conjunction with not only our own Government Aircraft Factories but also other companies - notably the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation and the British Aircraft Corporation in the United Kingdom. Not only were we seeking to obtain a requirement for it overseas; the British Aircraft Corporation had been doing that, too. It is probably the top organisation in the world in this field. The initial cost of getting the production of an advanced trainer aircraft to an established point could be of the order of $80m or $90m. Before we could begin such a project, under the concept on which we have been working and on which we have spent hundreds of thousands of dollars of the Australian taxpayers' money in design and advance studies, we would have to be sure of outside orders because, as I said the other day, Australia has only a limited requirement. 
Because of the sheer economics of the matter, we could not spend that sort of money to build that sort of aircraft if we ourselves required only 30 or 40 of them. When one talks of building an aircraft one needs to think in terms of having assured orders for about ISO aircraft initially and a follow-on prospect for the future. So it is not as easy as one might imagine. We cannot just press a button and say: 'We will keep our aircraft industry gainfully employed and viable simply by proceeding to design and build an aircraft in Australia, no doubt under licence from another country, without having at the time we start any prospect that we will be able to dispose of aircraft in addition to meeting our own requirement'. That is perhaps the depressing side of the situation. 
On the other hand, we can look at what we have been able to do. But before doing so, perhaps I should refer to the orders which we receive from other countries. We had a very distinguished visitor in the Prime Minister of New Zealand sitting in the Senate a short time ago. I was hoping that I would be called to speak before he left because I wanted to make it known that Australia has been negotiating with New Zealand for some time in regard to the possibility of selling Macchi aircraft to that country. Australia has also been negotiating with other countries. We have not been negotiating with the larger countries because they have their own aircraft capability, but some of the smaller countries do not. We have been in negotiation with some of these countries during the period that I have been Minister for Supply in the hope of selling Macchi aircraft to them. 
I should point out that the aircraft industry is one of the most competitive in the world at the moment. Every country which has its own aircraft industry is seeking orders. It should be remembered that the larger countries have greater financial backing than Australia. The aircraft industries in countries such as the United Kingdom, France and the United States of America are much better geared to volume production than we could ever hope to be at this stage of our history. The result is that we had to chase offset orders. In relation to the purchase of Boeing 747s by our airline operators,  Senator Bishop  said that Australia was successful in obtaining offset orders for only $500,000, which is true. But at least we did a lot of work in an endeavour to obtain orders. As I said when I made a statement in relation to the placing of certain offset orders in Australia, this is not the end; it is only the beginning. Officers of various Commonwealth departments are in the United States of America seeking further offset orders. 
I wish to point out some of the positive things which we have been able to do and are continuing to do in relation to the aircraft industry in Australia. Honourable senators will be aware that in more recent times we entered into an agreement with the General Aircraft Corporation in the United States to build certain parts in Australia. The contractual arrangement with this company depends upon certain things being done in the United States of America before we begin to build the airframes and parts that are to be made in Australia. I made an overseas visit in relation to this matter.  Mr Fairhall,  as he then was, also took it in train when he was overseas to negotiate an agreement on behalf of the Government. I am one of the signatories to the agreement. The fact is that we did a tremendous amount of work in relation to this matter. We were able to demonstrate that our time, rates and capacity were such that we could fulfil our obligations. But it is quite obvious that we could not ask the General Aircraft Corporation to commence its operations in Australia because we could not risk the taxpayers' money in pre-empting for the requirements which would be imposed in relation to this order. Nevertheless, negotiations are still proceeding. 
The Government has entered into what is known as Project N, which involves a study. The Government has budgeted to spend $3.5m on a design study and the building of a prototype in relation to Project N. This is another example of the fact that prototypes can be built in Australia. The design study and the building of prototypes will involve considerable expenditure, but the Government is hopeful that Australia will benefit from the training and experience that will be derived from Project N. However, it will be then necessary to find a market. We will find a market in Australia for Project N, but this will not make Project N a viable proposition. We will still need to get a market overseas for it. We are quite confident that we can get a market for it. Such is our confidence that the Government has taken a decision to spend more than $3m on the construction of a prototype. But we still come back to the basic problem of the type of work that we are doing in relation to Project N. 
Honourable senators are probably aware that we have designed and are carrying out work at the Government Aircraft Factories on a drone known as 'Turana'. We believe that this project will be a success. We have no reason to believe that it will not be as much a success as our projects involving the Jindivik, the Ikara and others. Although this project involves the construction of a drone, it does provide valuable experience for our people engaged in research and development work. There seems to be little doubt that production orders will follow. I come back to the point that we are doing the work and are keeping our technical people at work in study and design on these projects. We come to a point where the vital question is whether we can get orders for any projects that we undertake. We have been trying to get orders for the Macchi aircraft. We have tried to get orders in New Zealand where the matter is still under consideration and, as I recall it, we have tried to get orders in Singapore. 
I come now to the question of helicopters. Here, again, I suggest that there is a very real story to be told. Honourable senators will recall that the Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  made a statement in which he pointed out that Australia would have a requirement for helicopters. 
I believe that the requirement ran to about 100 helicopters of various categories. There is, of course, a small demand for some types of helicopter, but it would not be economical or wise to set about the design and manufacture of them. Of the 100 helicopters to which I have referred about 84 will be for light observation work. We believe that these helicopters must have an Australian content. We have invited 2 companies, which we believe have the capacity, to tender for the construction of the helicopters, but in inviting tenders we have laid down a time within which they must lender and have said that we will make our decision on the tenders according to merit and having regard to the Australian component of the product. This is putting it right on the line. 
A period of 6 months was allowed for tenders and I gather that we are about half way through that period. I shall check on that for the honourable senator. It is quite clear that the whole approach to this project has taken into account the Australian content. Our capacity to provide a significant Australian content has not been challenged at any time. 
I do not know that I want to deal much further with this matter of urgency.  Senator Bishop  referred in his motion to the commercial aspect of aircraft construction. I would reply to him that the aircraft industry in Australia is made up of the Government Aircraft Factories and 2 commercial companies which depend very significantly for their existence on orders from the Government. There are some restrictions on the Government Aircraft Factories entering into commercial activities, but we have been able to supply them with a work load on projects of a commercial nature. 
Yes, but this is a sensitive area. We must face up to that. The commercial companies are joint stock companies and they also have a responsibility to get out into the commercial field. They are achieving a certain degree of diversification, and that is helping them. But frankly, I suspect that many of the figures quoted by  Senator Bishop  involve the importation of large aircraft for Qantas Airways 
Ltd, Ansett Airlines of Australia and TransAustralia Airlines. I think that the best for which we can hope in this area is to negotiate feed-back orders. We have been applying ourselves with some force to this question recently. I do not think, and I do not imagine that  Senator Bishop  would suggest with any realism that we could produce these large aircraft for the commercial operators. So it is a little difficult to link up the commercial side with the problem we are discussing. 
Yes, but I think the question is: How big a share can we receive? If Qantas and the other airline companies say that they want these large aircraft, we can negotiate and try very hard to obtain feed-back orders, but we are a bit restricted as to how far we can go. These companies are going to have these large aircraft, and we do our best to try to negotiate feed-back orders. Tenders for the production of helicopters are to close at the end of August. We are calling for a minimum of 200 helicopters to be built by the established Australian industry. The defence Services will take 84 of .them. The remainder will have to be sold on the commercial or overseas military market. That indicates the type of problem which we are facing. 
I want to make one quick reference to rationalisation. There are some fears about rationalisation which perhaps are understandable. But I should like to indicate what the approach to the rationalisation of the aircraft industry should be. We are a small nation so far as population is concerned. We have a colossal area, but we have only a limited capacity to produce articles to meet our own requirements. There are 3 major aircraft industry organisations; so we are automatically at a disadvantage when we enter the selling field. Each of those 3 organisations depends upon Government orders to maintain its basic ability to carry on production. We have the situation where the work of those 3 organisations overlaps. So it is a matter of simple economics. We believe that we could achieve a better position if we could introduce rationalisation which would more intelligently direct the roles which the various organisations should play. But that does not mean that we could isolate the functions of the various organisations so that all work of one type could be done by one establishment, all work of a second type could be done by another establishment, and all work of a third type could be done by the other establishment. But if we could introduce this type of rationalisation we could organise the workload and the workforce in order to obtain maximum capacity and produce aircraft at the right price in a very difficult industry. We believe that this could be done. We recognise that the companies other than the Government Aircraft Factories are far better geared to undertake work on the commercial side. It might well be that under a rationalisation plan the companies could be given some priority of orders, with aid from the Government. It may be that because of certain types of research and development we have been able to do in our own establishments associated with the aircraft industry the Government Aircraft Factories would be better equipped in some fields. There has to be constant research and technological development and in a rationalised scheme, we believe, there would have to be some assurance that the operatives in the industry would have their rights protected. I think that would be logical. Nevertheless, we believe that rationalisation would put us in a stronger position to do some of the things that  Senator Bishop  has been talking about. Support orders for requirements that we have on our own would make more certain the security of our industry and the maintenance of it in a viable state. Let us not ignore the fact that it is a continuing task to keep the aircraft industry in Australia in a viable state. Let us not forget that Australia's needs defence wise and commercial wise will not in their own right preserve what we have. Let us not forget that if we are to preserve our viable aircraft industry we need to get into it and have a capacity in the order book, which will be supplementary to Australia's own requirements. The Australian industry is not without courage in this field. The fact that we have put it on the line to spend the taxpayer's money to the order of some millions of dollars on project N, which will need when completed something in the order book, is evidence of that. The fact that we have gone overseas and signed a contract for certain manufacture in Australia in relation to the General Aircraft Corporation, and the fact that we have gone into such things as the Ikara, the Jindivik and the Turana - which, to be economic, need a capacity to be sold overseas - are evidence of our approach. I do not believe there is justification for the urgency motion. I do not mind using a form of the Senate to have a discussion. I am all in favour of that, and if this urgency motion had, for instance, taken out the preamble about the failure of the Government I would have said that it was an area worth while debating. 
Yes. It is a worthwhile debate except that we are all in the throes of trying to bring this sessional period to an end. The fact of the matter is that I never shrink from a debate on our effort in relation to the aircraft industry. I think in the circumstances the Opposition's charge of failure has not been sustained. I hope that we would not necessarily take the full 3 hours for this debate. There is some idea that we might be able to shorten that period. 
As I recall, the Prime Minister made a statement some time ago that a withdrawal of Australian troops from Vietnam would be made in the context of the overall situation, having regard to the decisions made by the United States. I would suggest that if the honourable senator wants a more particularised statement in relation to that it would be best to put the quest on on notice and I will obtain a considered reply for him. 
Last week I gave an answer on behalf of the Treasurer in relation to this matter and said that there were certain circumstances in which loans in excess of $8,000 had been made. It is rather early to get the statistics on grants that have been made because this is only a recent decision. But I will seek the information and make it available to the honourable senator. 
I am not aware of the contributions that were made or aid that came from overseas for the Tasmanian victims some time ago.  I  would not put under challenge the figures cited by the honourable senator because I do not know them. I can only add his representations to those made by  Senator O'Byrne  and undertake to refer the substance of the issue to the Minister for External Affairs. 
The tragedy in Peru and the action taken by the Government in offering some relief, consistent with other countries and no doubt in some proportion, are matters that I consider to be completely unrelated to Australia's participation in Vietnam. Asking this question may be a nice exercise in politics on one hand, but in my opinion it does not grace at all the situation in respect of the tragedy in Peru. In fact, I am rather disappointed that the Leader of the Opposition should so frame a question because the 2 matters are quite separate. I believe that everybody in Australia regrets profoundly the tragedy of what has happened in Peru. It is to be regretted that the Leader of the Opposition should try to link that to what, in this chamber at any rate, is a political question. 
It would seem to me that the honourable senator is again bordering on the line of anticipating legislation in this place. For that reason I suggest that he put his question on notice. 
This proposal is consistent with what has happened with a number of other Bills, notably today. I do not think that it requires any great explanation from me. We take the view that it would be inhibiting in its application. Therefore we resist the amendments. I think that a vote should be taken and that that will resolve the question. The Export Payments Insurance Corporation is charged with the responsibility of operating its business in a commercial manner. It is therefore given, with safeguards, the responsibility and flexibility of fixing salaries which are suited to its commercial environment. So in a sense it is not on all fours with some of the other government organisations to which we have already referred. 
There are 3 ways in which the Corporation's responsibility in the setting of salaries is safeguarded. The salary of the head of the Corporation is to be fixed by the Governor-General. This is the one to which the amendments are directed. The salaries of the most senior officers must be approved by the Minister on the advice of the Public Service Board. With the great majority of staff the Corporation itself will fix the salaries subject to the approval of the Public Service Board. The point I make is that because of the very nature and the wide charter of the organisation in the commercial sense, to provide for the fixing of salaries by an Act of the Parliament would be to inhibit the flow of the conduct of the Corporation's affairs. For that reason we resist the amendments. We suggest that the logical thing for the Committee to do is to vote on the amendments. 
I realise that. 
1 10.36]  -  I thank the Senate for the passage of the second reading stage of this Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 

 Senator DEVITT (Tasmania) 1 10.371 - On behalf of the Opposition I move: 
After clause 3, insert the following new clause: 3a. Section 7 of the Principal Act is amended - 
by omitting from sub-section (4.) the words "and allowances as determined by the Governor-General" and inserting in their stead the words "as the Parliament provides, but until the first day of January, One thousand nine hundred anu' seventyone,  that  salary shall be as is determined by the Governor-General"; and 
by inserting after sub-section (4.) the following sub-section: "(4a.) The Commissioner shall bc paid such allowances as are prescribed.".'.  1 further move: 
After  clause 3, insert the following new clause: In. Section 10 of the Principal Act is amended - 
by  omitting  from sub-section (5.) the words "and allowances as determined by the Governor-General" and inserting in their stead the words "as the Parliament provides, but until the first day of January, One thousand nine hundred and seventyone, that salary shall be as is determined by the Governor-General"; and 
by adding at the end thereof the following sub-section: "(6.) The Acting Commissioner shall be paid' such allowances as are prescribed.".'. 
I do not propose to speak at length on these amendments because they are consistent with an attitude which was taken by the Committee of the Senate earlier in the day and which in fact confirms and consolidates an attitude taken by this chamber on a number of occasions in similar circumstances. I do not propose to delay or to weary the Committee with tedious repetition because we have already - in fact, this very day - dealt with an issue of similar nature. 
I recall the honourable senator asking a qi.ies.ion in which he invited the Government to give some consideration to the preparation of a White Paper concerning the proposed entry of the United Kingdom into the European Economic Community. I am not in a position 10 give the honourable senator an answer in relation to the preparation of a White Paper. I am not quite certain whether a White Paper dealing not with the particular problems facing Australia as a result of such an entry but wilh the effects such an application might have as far as the United Kingdom Government is concerned is not something-  
My answer is just the same. But before one ascertains the implications to Australia one has to consider the hypothetical entry of the United Kingdom into the Community. I think it is highly unlikely, or improbable, that a White Paper could be produced in Australia until a deep study had been made of the United Kingdom's position. The Government has not made any decision on the matter. I shall refer the honourable senator's question to the Prime Minister and when I obtain a reply I shall bring it into the Senate. But I should say it is most unlikely that I will be able to bring it into the Senate during this sitting. It all depends on the decision which the United Kingtom lakes. 
The honourable senator reflects what might be regarded as an anticipated legislative programme in this place. To that extent I do not know that we need to go very far by way of a response at question time. There is no doubt in the world - everybody knows this, including the honourable senator - that the Commonwealth has undertaken to protect the States by way of legislation in relation to the collection of certain tax. To the extent that that is the receipts tax to which the honourable senator has referred, I think there is no doubt that the Commonwealth is entering into arrangements to meet the requirements of the States. We will have this legislation before the Senate before we rise and I would suggest that if the honourable senator has views that he wishes to express it might be appropriate for him to express them - with some regard to time - during the debate on that measure. 
The honourable senator asks a question regarding an alleged statement by Vice-President Ky that South Vietnamese troops will remain in Cambodia after the withdrawal of American troops. In the circumstances I think that the question should be placed on the notice paper. There is a consequential inference to bc drawn from his question, but 1 think that he should obtain an answer to the first part of his question before he starts to make judgments, as he did in the second part of his question. 
lt is a matter of government policy to establish in Australia nuclear capacity for peaceful purposes. That decision has been taken. As to the suggestion of the honourable senator that because some professorial group has claimed that the project is not economic or may cause pollution in some form we should delay the matter, I would say that the Government would have had the advantage of all the expert knowledge, knowhow and technology available when it made its original decision. However, that is a matter of detail which would be more properly one for the Department of National Development. The Government's decision for Australia to have nuclear capacity for peaceful purposes is a good decision, a sound decision and a decision consistent with the Government's approach to the progress and development of this nation. 
It is true that Australia did enter into an agreement to supply the nacelles and part of the wing frame of an aircraft which was to be a 4-engine 36-passenger commercial aircraft known as the GAC100. This aircraft is in the design stage of study by the General Aircraft Corporation of the USA. Even though this aircraft was still in the design stage the condition governing Australia's implementation of its contract was based upon the existence of a potential market. That market did not depend upon Australia's requirements. A considerable delay has occurred because the company has not been able to satisfy that requirement. 
More recently an alternative proposal has been put forward which suggests that Australia's resources and finances should be used for the purpose of almost total manufacture of the aircraft in Australia. 1 am now in a position to say - I certainly was not when I spoke last week - that studies which have been made have come back to the basic problem again, and it is beyond doubt that there is not a significant requirement for that type of aircraft. Even at the design stage, which would be 3 or 4 years prior to the aircraft being put into the air, there would need to be  a  prime market for this aircraft in the United States, Europe or some other place for the proposal to be viable. Because that market has not been established, and having regard to the volume of likely sales, it has been decided not to proceed with this more recent proposition. If GAC entered into an arrangement with a substantial United States manufacturing company for the production of the aircraft we would naturally seek to re-negotiate the contract which we hold, under which wings and nacelles were to have been manufactured in Australia. 
That matter would be within the responsibility of the 
Prime Ministers Department, which has administrative control of the Public Service Board.I ask that the question be put on notice and I will obtain a reply. 
The Minister for Trade and Industry  has  provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The ninth finding of the Joint Committee of Public Accounts in its 112th Report is stillunder study by the Department of Trade and Industry. The action taken by the Department as a result of its review will be notified to the Treasury for incorporation in a Treasury Minute to the Committee, and will be made public when the Minute is tabled by the Committee in both Houses of Parliament. 
The Minister for Trade and Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The print run for the May 1 edition of 'Overseas Trading' was 18,400. The number of copies varies slightly with each issue as amendments are made in the circulation list. 
The cost of the May 1 issue was $2,275.86. This included the production of blocks for photographs. The average cost per issue of the last 6 issues was $2,041.05. 
The Minister for External Affairs has furnished the following reply: 
No. 
, (3), (4) and (5) The Government of the Federal Republic of Germany is currently engaged in a series of negotiations with the East German regime with the expressed object of securing a contractually regulated relationship with it. It would not therefore be appropriate, in present circumstances, for the Austraiian Government to comment on these negotiations or on hypothetical situations to which they might give rise. 
1 10.52]  -  The Senate must accept responsibility for its own actions. The Senate, 1 would assume, would have been aware at the lime when it set out lo amend a series of Acts in this way of the very point that  Senator Byrne  has mentioned. I suppose thai if you go through all of the statutes and Commonweatlh laws you will find that procedures which were followed in this Bill and in other Bills before the Senate today have been, more or less until this time, the accepted procedures in relation lo these matters. 1 would think that a fair amount of research would need to be clone. I think that what we have done in the past few days in relation to this Bill, which as to salary takes the common form of the Parliament rather than by being prescribed by regulation, would be the exception to the rule. 
I come back to the po tnt that the Senate has to accept responsibility for its own actions. This new technique, shall we say, has emerged only in this session when Bills have been drafted and have come to us from another place, lt stands to reason that any government worthy of its salt must have some regard to a consistent repetitive type of amendment coming before it and must make a judgment in the future on whether it believes it desirable io take cognisance of what is happening. Meanwhile I finish where I started: The Senate has done it. The Senate will have to accept responsibility for it. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
The honourable  Senator is  suggesting that the magnitude of the tragedy that has happened in Peru would justify Australia's participation in a wider way than we have indicated at the present time. The honourable senator suggests that the relief might take the form of an offer of medical assistance, medical supplies and so on. Having regard to the terms in which the honourable senator has posed his question, I thinkI should refer it to the Minister for External Affairs. 
1 looked at the honourable senator's question again yesterday afternoon. [ was under the impression that some further comment was coming through for him. I do not have it with me. If it emerges during the day I will make it available. If it does not, 1 will make it available tomorrow. 
I am aware that the whole impact of a prospective entry of the United Kingdom into the European Economic Community is under constant study by the Department of Trade and Industry and the Department of Primary Industry. I cannot add any more at this time. I think 1 should take the question a little further and see whether anything can be added by either of the 2 departments. 
The honourable senator has posed his question in descriptive form and I would need to have some reflection upon it. I am aware of some of the antecedents of the gentleman concerned. Perhaps beyond that I should not make any comment. 
J was informed earlier today that the ELDO F9 launch was called off this morning. However, another attempt will be made between 8 a.m. and 10.30 a.m. tomorrow. The delay was not caused by any fault in the rocket itself. A fault was detected in the impact prediction computer system, which is a piece of range equipment essential to the test. A Press party which was to have witnessed the launch was flown back this morning from Woomera to Adelaide, and I understand that Colonel Dutton, who is the ELDO representative in Australia, has offered to fly the party back tomorrow morning for the delayed launch. 
I make no comment about the authenticity of the documents. I question, in my mind, the propriety of making public a document which is a Public Service document. But be that as it may, that is the decision which the honourable senator chose to make. All I can say is that the honourable senator spoke about this matter during an adjournment debate, and in the normal process what be had to say and what documents he tabled will be subjected to examination. 
This is unquestionably true. 
The answer to all questions asked by the honourable senator is yes. 
J am sorry that the honourable senator has linked his question, which he had asked previously in isolation, with what we have been reading in the Press in the last 48 hours. Previously I have expressed the personal view, which I repeat, that a parliamentarian does nol cease to be a citizen or to enjoy the rights of a citizen when he becomes a parliamentarian, lt seems to me to be completely unreal to suggest that because a man chooses to represent the people of this country his own personal affairs should become public property. Nevertheless every man who goes into public life has an obligation in relation to the propriety of his conduct which he has to accept. That is a matter of judgment. He stands in the position where at any time his honesty can be impugned. That is an occupational hazard, lt seems to me that that is vastly different from suggesting that because a man chooses to do one of the highest things that a man probably can aspire to, namely, to represent his fellow men, the whole of his domestic life and the whole of his rights as a citizen in the matter of the investment of his savings or anything else should become public property. I do not subscribe to it personally, but I think the honourable senator's question is valid so I will put it to the Treasurer. 
There have been a number of questions about the possible entry of the United Kingdom into the European Economic Community. I recall that  Senator Byrne  asked whether a White Paper which would reflect the implications to Australia of Britain's entry into the Community should be produced. That has been referred for consideration.  Senator Lawrie  now has suggested that at any discussions between the United Kingdom and countries of the Community, and where it is legitimate for Australia to do so, Australia should have an observer present. I would have thought that when discussions were being held in open session it would be a normal procedure for the Australian Government to observe what was taking place. It would be appreciated, of course - I would assume this to be the case - that when the United Kingdom sat at the table with members of the Community for purposes of negotiation, the discussions would be a matter for the parties only and certainly not something at which outside observers would be encouraged to be present. 
Yes, I have seen the statement by the former United Slates negotiator at the peace talks. I think it was the late Winston Churchill who once said that there should be more jaw and less war; at least that was the substance of it. But that is an oversimplification of the problems with which we are confronted now.  Mr Harriman  is entitled to express his views and I would not want to make a judgment on them. 1 know the Government's approach to the problem. Naturally we are hoping that the result of the peace talks will be for the good of mankind. That is axiomatic. I decline to comment' on any other statement made by  Mr Harriman. 
The honourable senator has asked me about signatories to a treaty, and various implications in his question stemmed from that basis. I suggest that the honourable senator should place his question on the notice paper so that a reply can be furnished by the Minister for External Affairs. 
 I could not imagine any circumstances in which the government of a trading nation in particular would be reconciled to the closing of what was one of the main sea routes of the world. So there is no difficulty in answering that part of the question. I imagine that nobody would be reconciled to that. What representations have been made in relation to the reopening of the Suez Canal and what part, if any. Australia has played in that respect would clearly be matters that would have to be referred to the Department of External Affairs. 
This subject has been the basis of a series of question in the Senate for several weeks - in fact, since the increase in interest rates was applied by the banks. I can merely repeat what I have said in the past, that the decision to increase interest rates was taken having regard to the state of the economy. This decision was not unique. This is a well accepted and traditional procedure in relation to the economy. Since the question was whether the Government supports the decision my answer is yes, the Government does support the decision because it believes it was taken in the best interests of the community. At some time in the history of every democratic country that I know of there has been a movement of interest rates either up or down as an instrument of the fiscal policy of that country. 
My previous answer was given on the broad issue of the movement of interest rates. The honourable senator directs her question to the particularity of the motor car industry on the one hand and the consumer goods industry on the other. As we know the Government has given consideration to some variance in the interest rates applying to certain industries. Notably, primary industry had a differential before the movement of interest rates and this differential has in fact been maintained and improved upon since the variation of the interest rate took place. It is not for me to be drawn into an argument in relation to particular industries. It is true that the Government is currently giving consideration to this aspect but I want it to be clearly understood that I was giving an answer in relation to the principle and the movement of interest rates as a part of fiscal policy. I repeat what I have said before. History is studded with examples of variations in the movement of interest rates from time totime, linked to the economy of a nation. There is nothing unique and nothing new in this. What has been done has been done and I have no doubt that at a certain stage there will be a movement the other way. 
It has gone down since I have been in this place and if the honourable senator looks up the text books in the Library he will find that this is so. This is not fairy tale stuff; this is fact. If it will help the honourable senator I will bring along a supplementary answer which will show the movement of interest rates up and down. It is a matter of regard for the economy, and that means regard for people and employment. That means in fact all matters relating to good government and the welfare of our people. 
Obviously the Leader of the Opposition did not listen to the answer I gave to  Senator Buttfield  because I did give a specific example where the Government thought discrimination was desirable. I quoted the field of primary industries. 
Now the honourable senator is giving a little bit extra, but the fact of the matter is that I did say that there had been consideration of this matter. Then in response to  Senator Buttfield's  question I said that there were considerations of a broader canvas than primary industry. 
 As long as I can remember, at this time of the year - notably, in the period coming up to the end of the financial year - there is a curve in relation to production and sales indicating the success or failure of the motor industry. This, I think, has been reflected particularly in a statement which .1 saw and which was made by one of the leading companies in relation to the curve that has happened during the last month, or whatever the period is. 
I can come back and repeat what I have said already. If there was some special area which might be suffering an adverse effect in isolation, it would be natural that any government would need to look at that area. But we must keep our minds on the main chance all the time. That is the economy of Australia and what it means to people in Australia. We should keep that consideration well before us and we should accept what I have told the Senate, namely, that interest rates could go up or could come down as a matter of Government policy. 
If honourable senators look at the history of the present Government of the United Kingdom, which is rather in the news at this time, they will find that some most dramatic increases and drops have occurred in interest rates in that country. Those increases and drops have been in accordance with what the United Kingdom Government considered to be appropriate action to manage the economy of that nation. I think that honourable senators will find that whilst economists can always disagree, this is the generally accepted principle in relation to these matters. 
It is true that I have had discussions in relation to the possibility of an extension of the sittings, beyond our normal time of rising, 1 night this week before Friday. It equally is true that I have indicated to party leaders that I anticipate that, if the Parliament is to rise this week, we shall need to sit later on Friday than the normal time of rising. It is also true that, if we decide to sit beyond the normal time of adjournment either tonight or tomorrow night I very properly would ask the establishment to provide some very light refreshments for perhaps half an hour. I am not sure that we have made any arrangements for tonight as yet. 

 - Senator Murphy says that we are going to exhaust honourable senators but not starve them. I want to make it clear that 1 have no desire to sit any longer than is necessary to get the Government's legislation through the Senate. If we can accomplish it this week, we will do so. If we cannot accomplish it this week we will come back next week. If we cannot accomplish it next week we will have to come back subsequent to that. I would not want to be put in the position of being criticised for trying to do something which would help to facilitate the passage of legislation, on the one hand, and provide for the comfort of honourable senators on the other hand. 
The honourable senator asks a question built round a presumed statement by the United States Secretary of State. 
Perhaps I read them in a different way from the honourable senator. Perhaps I read the full text of the statements and therefore I am not prepared to take something that is said out of context and build a question around it. Therefore, before 1 would presume to reply to the honourable senator's question - I will do so in due course - it would be proper for me to get the appropriate department to have a look at the full text of the statement 
 I would have thought that the answer to  I  he honourable senator's question was to be found in the . answer given by the Minister for Housing to the preceding question asked by  Senator Buttfield  when she said, as I understood her, that she, her officers and officers of the Treasury were obtaining information relating to the current position in the housing industry. Inherent in that is a desire and interest on the part of the Treasurer and the Government to be aware of the position in relator to that industry. That, I think, is a normal procedure. Whilst it may not be clear to  Senator Poyser  it may be clear to a lot of honourable senators opposite. 
The Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's questions: 
and (2) An indication of the level of interest rates generally prevailing in 1949 and the variations that have occurred in interest rates since that time is given in the following table. The table shows the yields on short and longer term Commonwealth Government bonds, the maximum rates of interest paid by trading and savings banks on deposits, the maximum trading bank overdraft rate and the range of rates predominantly charged by savings banks on credit foncier and mortgage housing loans. 

<graphic href="044232197006104_12_0.jpg"></graphic>

The Minister for External Affairs has furnished the following reply: 
The Government of Japan has taken an active part in recent years in a number of regional organisations and activities which advance the peaceful development and progress  of  South-East Asia. Japan's participation in the conference on Cambodia held'  in  Djakarta  is  evidence  of  its willingness to  co-operate  with other countries  of  Asia and the Pacific in advancing prospects  of a  peaceful settlement  of  the problems of the region. 
Prospects  of a  peaceful settlement would be assisted by more general participation in discussions  of  the kind that took place recently in Djakarta. 
On 8th April  Senator Devitt  asked me two questions about petrol pricing and the absorption of indigenous crude oil. The Minister for Customs and Excise has provided the following answer: 
The question of price cutting and price rises for petroleum products is strictly outside the control of my Department. The power to regulate prices rests with the various State governments, although I understand that with the exception of South Australia, the States have chosen not to directly exercise that power.  lt is understood that oil marketing companies have applied ro the South Australian Prices Commissioner for a price increase on petroleum products. It would, however, be difficult to reconcile the granting of price discounts of up to 8c a gallon with a large price increase. 
As you are aware, the Minister for Customs and Excise is responsible for the valuation and allocation of indigenous crude oil. Companies marketing petroleum products within Australia may import refining feedstocks or finished products at concessional rates of duty providing they take up a share of Australian crude oil production proportionate to their share of the Australian petroleum products market. All companies marketing petroleum products in Australia have decided to participate in the absorption of indigenous crude oil. and have elected to take up a share of Australian crude oil production. 
The utilisation or disposal of indigenous crude oil after purchase is solely the responsibility of the purchaser. There is no obligation on refiners to lake up any more than their proper share of local crude production. Nevertheless, I understand that in the situation you have referred to, there are refiners in Australia who have made offers to either process or purchase indigenous crude oil owned by one of the companies involved in the so-called price war. 
On 21st May  Senator Fitzgerald  asked a question about exports of motor spirit. The Minister for Customs and Excise has provided the following answer: lt has been a long-standing practice by oil companies in Australia to export and import comparatively small amounts of motor spirit. 
There are two main factors which influence oil companies to import motor spirit. One is the proximity of pons in north and north-west Australia to overseas refineries which can be more economically supplied from those refineries. The other is to meet temporary short-falls in Australian market requirements when refinery production is slowed down or suspended due to mechanical breakdown or maintenance overhaul. As well, small amounts of motor spirit are imported by marketers who do nol have refinery facilities in Australia. 
In the question the honourable senator quoted a statement in the Press that compared the export price of motor spirit with the retail price for motor spirit in Melbourne. 
The export price referred to is the average for all regular and premium motor spirit exported during 1968-69. The figure is a f.o.b. value based on bulk filling of tankships direct from refineries, lt does nol include any excise (Any, storage and distribution costs or reseller margin. Thus there is no real basis for comparison between the two figures quoted. 
I might add that the amounts of motor spirit exported are not great when viewed against the consumption of motor spirit withi'n Australia. 
During 1968-69 Australian production of motor spirit was  in  excess of 2,000 million gallons. Exports of motor spirit amounted to some 60 million gallons or less than 3% of Australia's production of motor spirit. However, these exports do contribute to the greater utilisation of refinery capacity  in  Australia and therefore make for a more economic operation. Indeed, in this sense exports can make a real contribution to the avoidance of price increases. 
I  do not think that  in  these circumstances go vernment action to control petrol exports would lessen the price of petrol  i'n  Australia or assist the overall economy of the country. 
by leave - I wish to make a statement in relation to the management of the Senate in terms of time and then, if appropriate, to move a motion. Earlier today I was asked about the possibilities of silting beyond the normal time tonight and some reference was made to supper being ordered for the Senate. I said at the time that there was in contemplation the possibility of sitting beyond the normal time. I have since checked on the position with the Government Whip who has told me that the dining room has been alerted for tonight. A prerequisite to any question of sitting beyond 1 0.30 p.m. or 1 1 p.m. is the passage of a motion relating to the introduction of new business after a particular time. In other words, even if we sat beyond 10.30 p.m. we could resolve only the Bill that we were debating. Although we might want to accomplish the completion of another couple of Bills we would need to pass a motion suspending standing order 68 to make that possible. I propose to move that standing order 68 be suspended for the remainder of the present sittings to enable new business to be commenced after 10.30 p.m. What 1 have in mind is simply to clear the way so that if tonight or tomorrow night we want to dispose of a Bill which is not on the notice paper we will be able to do it. 
If it is the will of the Senate to carry thai motion  -  I cannot see any reason why it should not be carried because it is a mechanical thing -I had in contemplation then the possibility of suggesting tonight at  S  o'clock that when we came to 1 1 o'clock tonight, while the proceedings were being broadcast, the Senate should deny the resolution relating to the adjournment of the Senate so that we might continue. In this way we would have some time to think about whether we should sit beyond 1 1 p.m. and the deck would have been cleared to enable us to do so. With standing order 68 suspended so that we may introduce new business after the normal time of rising, when the formal motion for the adjournment is put at 1 1 p.m. we can decide whether to proceed with other business. But we need first to suspend standing order 68 to enable us to introduce new legislation. Therefore. I move: 
That standing order 68 he suspended for the remainder of the present sittings to enable new business to he commenced after half-past ten o'clock al night. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
With the concurrence of honourable senators I incorporate my second reading speech in Hansard. It reads: The purpose of this Bill is to amend the Defence Act to provide that the pay and annual allowances payable to the  Chairman,  Chiefs of Staff Committee, the Chief of Naval Staff, the Chief of the General Staff and the Chief of the Air Staff shall be such as the Parliament provides. This amendment will mean that the provision for the payment of pay and annual allowances for these officers will be similar to that provided for officers of the First Division in the Public Service. Section 30 of the Public Service Act 1922- 1 968 provides: 
Officers of the First Division shall be paid such salaries and annual allowances as the Parliament provides. 
The provision by Parliament is made each year by means of the Appropriation Act. 
The Defence Act enables the GovernorGeneral to make regulations providing for and in relation to the fixing of the rates of pay of members of the defence force who are paid for their services. As with other members of the defence force the rates of pay of the  Chairman,  Chiefs of Staff Committee, and the Chiefs of Staff are prescribed in the Military Financial Regulations, the Naval Financial Regulations and the Air Force Regulations. When the decision was taken to extend to these officers the payment of the annual allowances, action was taken to authorise  the  payment by amendments to the Military Financial Regulations.the Naval Financial Regulations and the Air Force Regulations. In its 27th Report, the Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances recommended the disallowance of these amending regulations on the grounds that: 
It is doubtful if they are properly authorised under the regulation-making power of the Statutes and therefore if they are in accordance with their relevant Statutes; and 
Apart from any previous regulations which may have been issued under the regulationmaking power of the Statute, the provision of this annual allowance is not an administrative detail but an important innovation more appropriate to substantive legislation. 
The regulations were disallowed by the Senate on 16th April 1970. 
The Government's legal advisers are satisfied that the regulations were made within the regulation-making power of the Statutes and that the payments made in accordance with the regulations before they were disallowed were validly made. Payment of the annual allowance to these officers was stopped when the regulations were disallowed. The amendment to the Defence Act will come into operation on a dale to be fixed by Proclamation. This action is necessary to enable necessary consequential amendments to be made concurrently to the Services' financial regulations and to ensure that the commencement is delayed until after the passage of an Appropriation Act in which the rates of pay and annual allowance payable to these officers will be. specified. In the meantime these officers will receive pay in accordance with the regulations that were in force before the disallowed regulations were made and the Bill contains a clause authorising the payment to these officers of an annual allowance at the rate of $ 1 000 per annum from the date of disallowance of the regulations - that is, 16th April 1970 -until the day before the proclaimed date. This particular clause will come into operation immediately royal assent is given to the Bill so that payment of the annual allowance can be made as soon as possible. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Murphy)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
With the concurrence of honourable senators I incorporate my second reading speech in Hansard, lt reads: 
The purpose of this Bill is to bring the formula that determines the category entitlements of more senior members contributing under the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act into line with the corresponding formula in the Superannuation Act. Between 1963 and 1969 the formulae in the 2 Acts were comparable, producing maximum pension entitlements tapering down from 70% of salary or pay for the lower paid members of each scheme to approximately 50% of salary or pay for members at the highest level. With effect from 4th June 1969 the formula in the Superannuation Act was varied to produce a pension entitlement for staff at the highest level of approximately 60% of salary, if all available units were taken up on a contributory basis. 
The change now to be made to the formula in the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act will have a similar effect. The change is to operate from 4th June 1969, the date from which the Superannuation Act formula was varied. The change does, however, have some implications for the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund. Unlike the superannuation scheme or that part of the defence forces retirement benefits scheme relating to members who entered the scheme before 4th December 1959, the contribution rates of members who have entered the scheme since that date, that is, post- 1 959 members, are fixed as percentages of pay. Consequently, the change in the formula and the resultant increases in entitlements of post- 1959 members in higher categories will not be matched by an increase in contributions to the Fund. 
Only the entitlements of officer members will be affected by the formula change. As the rates of contribution for post-1959 officer members have been determined separately from those applying to post- 1 959 other rank members, the contribution rates applicable to post-1959 officer members will be examined in conjunction with the quinquennial investigation of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund as at 30th June 1969 to see whether there is a need to vary the rates because of the change in entitlement levels. As I said earlier, members who entered the scheme before 4th December 1959, that is, pre-1959 members, contribute on a different basis from those who have entered the scheme since that date. Since 1965, pre-1959 members have had the right, when faced with an increase in contributions, to elect to limit their contributions. Thereafter, additional category entitlements, when they become available, are granted without additional contributions, the benefit accruing from these additional entitlements being a proportion of the corresponding contributory benefit. 
Pre-1959 officer members who have not already exercised their right to limit contributions will be able to do so, if they wish, in respect of the additional contributions that will become payable in respect of the additional category entitlements flowing from the formula change. Thu Bill also extends this right to pre-1959 officers serving on 4th June 1969 who have since retired on pension or, if they have died, to their widows or orphan children to whom pensions are being paid. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Murphy)  adjourned. 
[4.341  -  Last night the Senate debated the Export Payments Insurance Corporation Bill. This issue was raised then. On the motion for the third reading of the Bill  Senator 'Byrne  drew attention to the inevitable consequence of the type of amendment with which we had dealt, and which substituted a provision that salaries, allowances and the like should be as Parliament provides. He very properly pointed out that because of the Senate's action in making various amendments to legislation recently a situation could be produced where some governmental corporations and organisations would have salaries and allowances as provided by Parliament, but the huge volume of provisions in the statutes of the Commonwealth would be in a different form. 1 responded to that suggestion and because of my response 1 have now entered the debate, ln my reply I pointed out that the Senate in the Inst week had amended legislation and the Senate would have to accept the responsibility for its own actions. Because of what I went on to say, I have now entered this debate. There k some suggestion that what I said had a connotation that was neither said nor meant. I said:  lt stands 10 reason  that  any government  worthy  of ils sal: must have some regard to a consistent repetitive tj po of amendment corning before it and must make a judgment in the future on whether it believes it desirable 10 take cognisance of what is happening. 
I said that the Government would have to conduct an examination of the procedures it was to adopt.  Senator Murphy  has chosen to argue - and I presume that before I entered the chamber other senators also chose to argue - that because it is reported that another place has accepted a message from the Senate in respect of an amendment or request, it means that the Government has accepted a principle. 
I want to disabuse the Senate immediately of that notion. The Government has not accepted a principle this time at all. The fact of the matter is that a message goes with an amendment and the other place has to deal with the amendment in the light of the circumstances of that particular piece of legislation. I agree with the point of view of  Senator McManus.  lt is obvious that the Government will have to look at this matter on a wide canvas, in all its ramifications. That is not done overnight simply because of a message being accepted in respect of legislation that it is imperative to pass.  Senator McManus  made his point quite properly by saying, in effect: We have put the other place on notice. The view is held by members of the Senate that it should be as Parliament provides in a series of Bills.' That has put the other place on notice. The Government obviously has to make up its mind in the long term, and not in the short term, as to whether it should accept the amendment as a broad principle. That has not been done as yet and I do not think that honourable senators can properly read into the passage of a particular piece of amended legislation acceptance of a broad principle. 1 subscribe to what  Senator McManus  has said. We have expressed our view. Now we wait for a period to see what the Government will do over the broad canvas of the whole of Commonwealth legislation in which the issue is involved. A judgment is necessary as to whether action is to be taken unilaterally on each Bill, piecemeal, or whether to wait and see where the Senate comes out on the matter. I think that  Senator Gair  was also quite right in his remarks, if it is provided in the legislation that these things should be fixed as prescribed, that does not deny the Senate its rights because it will find expression by regulation. The Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances has the right of examination and has exercised it in the case of regulations relating to the defence Services. 1 think that is a classic case. As a result of the Committee's examination an amending Bill is now before the Senate. The Regulations and Ordinance Committee examined the matter and said that it is necessary to have some substantive legislation. That view has been met. But many variations could apply in relation to different types of governmental organisations. It is far too early yet to proceed on the basis that the Government has accepted a principle laid down by the Senate that Parliament should always have the responsibility to fix allowances and emoluments. lt has been truly said that that would mean that whenever there was a variation, at a later period Parliament would have to bring down an Act. We would have a whole welter of amending legislation seeking to make adjustments. The Senate may want to do that. It is up to the Senate. Meanwhile, it is necessary to allow time for the Government to examine what the Senate is putting by way of a series of regulations. If the message has not got through yet, it will never  get  through, because the Senate has acted in respect of 4 Bills in the last 3 days. I suggest it is a time to pause and to see what happens. 
[8.35.1- This Bill deals with parliamentary allowances. It has been brought about by redistribution of boundaries before the last general election. Certain electorates which had previously been country electorates have been classified as city electorates and certain city electorates have come into the classification of country electorates. Because there is a differential between the allowance for a city electorate and that for a country electorate it was necessary to bring in a Bill to make the correction. At the same time 2 minor amendments were made to the Act. For instance, what is meant by the 'day of election* is defined. The amendment was put in so that the Act would read as it has always been interpreted. Another minor amendment relates to members of the House of Representatives who stand for reelection and are unsuccessful. Their appointment ceases with the election of their successor. This is a clarification of that matter, lt is a simple one which I do not think I need to develop at this time. 1 note that the Senate has accepted this Bill and will give it a speedy passage. 
I am also aware that certain honourable senators have made reference in a fairly broad canvas not to the question of allowances but to some aspects of parliamentary emoluments in terms of salary that the position of senator or member of the House of Representatives attracts. I accept that that is a vehicle for expressing some views and I do not object to it, but it should be remembered that most of what has been said on this Bill has no relation to it. It merely makes an adjustment to allowances and it does - I will come back to this in a moment - also make a slight adjustment in relation to allowances for senators. I think both  Senator Turnbull  and  Senator Byrne  made some reference to the question of allowances for officials of the Parliament. This matter comes under a different area of legislation altogether. It was raised during a debate on an Appropriation Bill previously, and as we will be dealing with the appropriations during the Budget session it is competent for any honourable senator to raise this issue again at a different level. At the same time I feel bound to say that there is no analogy between what are known here as parliamentary allowances and what are spoken of in terms of special allowances for the Presiding Officers. The parliamentary allowances quite clearly are related to the allowances necessary to reimburse a member of the House of Representatives or a senator for expenses he incurs in discharge of his responsibilities in his electorate. That carries a whole multitude of functions, some of which have been alluded to in the debate tonight. It could be related to travel, to a senator's expenses in relation to the management of his affairs or it could be related to the demands made upon him. We could all go on citing an endless series of demands which are made upon a member. The legislature provides therefore that if a member represents a classified city electorate there is an allowance of $2,750; if he represents a country electorate, it is $3,350; and for a senator it is equal to the allowance for a city electorate which is $2,750. This is an increase on the amount of $2,650 which was previously paid to senators. They were shown in isolation previously. I think that this is a very desirable Bill. Because of the circumstances of the redistribution, some electorates were on the fringe. It was difficult to decide whether they were city or country electorates. Certain names were changed and by definition it was decided whether electorates were country or city electorates. That having been decided - I think it is set out in the back of the 
Bill - then the electorate has to attract the appropriate allowance. All I can say is- 

 - Senator O'Byrne discussed this matter. I think that  Senator Wood  made a reference to it earlier. The fact is that it happened some time ago that senators allowances were put at a figure which was below both city and country electoral allowances. Whatever else this legislation has done, at least it has brought the allowances for senators equal to the city classification of allowances for members of the House of Representatives. A view may well be held here, which would find I think great support with honourable senators, that perhaps it could be at the higher level, that is, the country level. The fact is that the allowance for senators has been brought up to the level of the city allowance for members of the House of Representatives. The readjustment across the board over the whole of the Commonwealth does not mean any significant readjustment with regard to the revenue. I think that we worked out that the top figure was approximately $3,350 on the whole totality of allowances. So, the increase is not very significant. I thank the Senate for the passage of this legislation at the second reading stage. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
 I do not necessarily disagree that there may well be a wide area for debate regarding some aspects of the legislation dealing with parliamentary salaries. I would say that it would not all bc one way in relation to where the argument necessarily would go in some examples; nor do I mind  Senator Murphy  using this Bill as the vehicle to make bis points. Actually, what the honourable senator has said is not related to this Bill.  His  remarks were related to the Parliamentary Allowances Act which was last amended in 1968. That matter is different from the one with which we are dealing now. 
Here we are deciding whether the electorate of Kingston, for example, in South Australia is a city electorate or a country electorate. Related to this, the Bill deals first with electoral divisions and puts them into certain classifications. The same piece of legislation brings the allowances for senators - not their salaries, but their allowances - up to a level comparable with that paid to a member of the other place representing an electorate which is classified as a city electorate. 
If I may take the interjection, I would say that the allowance for a country electorate is higher than the allowance for a city electorate. The country electorate allowance is $3,350. The allowance for a city electorate is $2,750. It was decided to raise the allowance for a senator from $2,650 to $2,750. 
If honourable senators wish to, they may make the personal judgment that the allowance should have risen to make it closer to or equal to the allowance for a country electorate. 
I cannot stand on my feet and make debate on this subject when honourable senators are hurling conversation at me. The fact is that it was decided that allowances for senators should be given some degree of equality with allowances for members of the House of Representatives.  Senator Little  has suggested by way of interjection that the new allowance is not equitable; that it should have gone higher and been made equal to the allowance for a country electorate. The honourable senator is entitled to that view. He may hold that view. 
The fact is that it is not conceded in the Bill. 
Now, on the one hand,  Senator Georges  has said: 'Let us refuse it1, and, on the other hand, someone else has said: 'Let us go up to the country classification'. 
I think that what is contained in the Bill is a compromise between the 2 points of view. 
 I am informed that the Premier of Queensland has requested Commonwealth assistance for the setting up of a scheme with the aim of assisting in the rehabilitation of primary producers affected by the long drought and depressed markets. Apart from financial assistance, the Premier's proposals could involve amendments to the Bankruptcy Act 1966-1968 and the Loan (Farmers' Debt Adjustment) Act. Honourable senators will appreciate- that a number of complex issues are involved. 1 will convey the honourable senator's request to the Prime Minister, but in the meantime I assure him that the matter is being examined with all possible speed. 
No, it does not. I am not suggesting that it in any way qualifies the decisions that have been taken-. What I was purporting to say was that the type of problem that  Senator McManus  projected would have been taken into account as a normal development, and necessarily so. 
As I promised  Senator Mulvihill,  I have sought information on this matter. I have been informed by the Prime Minister's Department that there have been delays. There have been delays in relation to the contractual arrangements entered into, and I would not wish to explain what the basis of them is. They are to do with aspects of the work going on there. Also, as honourable senators know, there has been industrial trouble in Sydney in relation to the builders' labourers. This was not the primary problem. It was related to materials and the application of materials. I am informed that a conference was held on the site on 2nd June with the architect for the project and it was estimated that, in all the circumstances, the fountain should be completed within 4 or 5 weeks. That is the latest information up to as late as yesterday. 
I certainly am not going to respond to a question when a copy of the article on which it is based is handed across the table to me. I should like to read it first. 
That is a very long and comprehensive question which could not possibly attract a reply from me at this point of time. I suggest that it go on the notice paper. 
It means exactly what I said. 
It is true, as indicated by  Senator McManus,  that I have read reports which, I believe, suggest and establish that there have been actions in Laos by North Vietnamese forces which are calculated, as was the case in Cambodia, to give support for the North Vietnamese actions against South Vietnam. That this is what has happened is, I think, an accepted fact, and  I think this is just one more justification, if indeed one was necessary, for the action taken by the United States forces in relation to Cambodia, lt is the same sort of problem, lt is a matter of military strategy and something that has to be met. The honourable senator went on to ask me to comment about the withdrawal of forces from Vietnam. This matter is, of course, st big policy matter, lt is quite clear that there is. to be some withdrawal of forces, affecting not only United States forces but also our own forces there. Bui I agree with the honourable senator entirely that at all times there has to be regard to the effect of any such withdrawals so as to ensure that they will not prejudice the long-term security of South Vietnam. It has to be done in that context. I am quite certain that is a military question and it has to be looked at in that context. 
In the hubbub of conversation in the chamber I am not certain that I heard the honourable senator's question clearly. As I understand it, he asked whether further conferences with the States were to be held. If the question is directed to off-shore minerals as distinct from offshore oil problems, my understanding is that as recently as a few days ago a conference with the States was held. Therefore, there is no suggestion that there has not been and is not a taking into account of the points of view of the States. I think we will have to wait for a statement from the Minister for National Development about that conference. For that reason, it would be improper for me to pre-empt what he may report to the Government. 
 I can assure the honourable senator that we are not following any practice that will allow questions to accumulate. Every effort is made to get answers to questions asked by honourable senators. In case there should be any misunderstanding about this matter, 1 point out that questions . are numbered from the beginning of the sittings, and therefore the number represents the progressive total. All that that conveys is that, in the number of sitting days we have had, something of the order of 485 questions have been asked. I think this reflects great credit on honourable senators and the Senate generally in their desire for information. I think it is a great tribute to 5 ministers that they have been able to cope with 485 questions. If you divide 485 by 5 you will get some idea of the extent of our problems. 
First of all, I assume that any matters relating to hire purchase are within the sovereignty of the States. Therefore, if it is felt that some undue influences are at work in relation to the hire purchase industry that is a matter primarily for the State Government's concerned. For that reason, I do not think the question is one for the Treasurer. 
 I move: 
That Government Business Orders of the Day Nos. 1 to 5 be postponed until after consideration of Order of the Day No. 6. 
That, of course, will come on after we deal with the message, as the first item of business I propose will be the message relating to requested amendments to the National Health Bill. I am moving to postpone Orders of the Day Nos. 1 to 5 until Order of the Day No. 6 has been dealt with because there is a mechanical amendment in the latter that we must deal with so that it can go back to (he other place. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
 I do not resist this proposal. In fact, I was going to do this in another way, because I wanted to be certain that if we disposed of the matter relating the proposed committees we might then proceed under General Business with Government Business. This would be on the clear understanding that if there was still time available this evening after we had disposed of the committee proposals we could then go on with the Government Business paper. This motion will bring about precisely the same result as I hoped to get, so I do not think there is any point in my resisting it. Although it is being done in a different way from what I had in mind, it achieves the same result. 
The only other point to which I draw the attention of the Senate is that we still have a matter, on which  Senator Gair  has the adjournment, to get standing order No. 68 out of the way. This standing order means that we are inhibited if we want to introduce another Bill after 10.30 p.m. I think I would need to bring that on, and I sock leave to bring it on and dispose of it now. 
Last night there was perhaps one Bill that could have been introduced and disposed of quickly, but we were inhibited because of this standing order. I think we, by which I mean the whole Senate and not the Government, should put ourselves in a position of manoeuvrability. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
 in reply - I thank the Senate for the speedy passage of the legislation. I have taken note of the observation made by  Senator Willesee  about providing some further additional information and that will be passed to the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  for consideration. I have to tell the Senate that there will need to be a request because of a typographical error in the Bill in the modest amount of $500,000. In clause 3 (b) the reference to $1,000,500 should be a reference to $1,500,000. The word 'thousand' has obviously been omitted. When we get into Committee I will just formally move the request and I am sure the Committee will then give the legislation a quick passage through the Committee stage because the Bill now, of course, has to go to the other House for the acceptance of our request. It is only a formality, but I am grateful to the Senate for the speedy passage of the legislation. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
Clause 3 provides for payment to the Sta;es of S 13.5m. Sub-clause (a) related to the apportionment of $12m. Sub-clause (b) reads: 
One million five hundred dollars shall be paid to the State of Tasmania. 
I move: 
That the House of Representatives be requested to make the following amendment: 
In clause 3 (b) leave out 'One million five hundred dollars', insert 'One million five hundred thousand dollars'. 
Request agreed to. 
Bill reported with request; report adopted. 
I saw that Press report. In response to the honourable senator's question let me say that I also note that the Minister for External Affairs indicated in another place that some attention was being given to a review of the amount made available by the Commonwealth in relation to this tragedy. I do not think I should go beyond making that comment at this point of time. 
-I do not accept that. My experience has been - and 1 am sure it is the experience of every other honourable senator who has sat on a Senate select committee - that witnesses are very helpful. 1 have never had any experience of a witness not being helpful and not trying to give all the information sought from him. I frankly do not understand that report. I think perhaps I should answer only the direct question which the honourable senator puts. I do not believethat witnesses before any select committee do other than their best in response to questions put to them. 
 I move: 
That the report of the Committee be adopted, and that the Publications Committee consist of  Senator Marriott  as  chairman,  Senators Davidson, Georges, Maunsell, Milliner, Ridley and Young. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time.  With the concurrence of honourable senators I incorporate my second reading speech in Hansard. It reads: The purpose of this Bill is to impose, for the benefit of the States, duty on certain receipts of money, to the extent that it is not a duty of excise or a duty of customs, at the rate of 0.1% of the money received. I explained the background and effect of the Bill, and the other Bills with which it is associated, in my second reading speech when introducing the States Receipts Duties (Administration) Bill 1970. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Murphy)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time.  With the concurrence of honourable senators I incorporate my second reading speech in Hansard. It reads: The purpose of this Bill is to impose, for the benefit of the States, duty on certain receipts of money, to the extent that it may be a duty of customs, at the rate of 0.1% of the money received. I explained the background and effect of the Bill, and the other Bills with which it is associated, in my second reading speech when introducing the States Receipts Duties (Administration) Bill 1970. I commend the Bill1 to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Murphy)  adjourned. 
 I move: 
That the Bill  be  now  read a second  time. 
With the concurrence of honourable senators, I incorporate my second reading speech in Hansard. It reads: Under section 55 of the Constitution, duties of customs, duties of excise and other duties are required to be imposed by separate laws. The purpose of the States Receipts Duty Bill (No. I) is to impose, for the benefit of the States, duty on certain receipts of money, to the extent that it is a duty of excise, at the rate of 0.1% of the money received. I explained the background and effect of the Bill, and the other Bills with which it is associated, in my second reading speech when introducing the States Receipts Duties (Administration) Bill 1970. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Murphy)  adjourned. 
In dealing with the last part of the question first I would say definitely not. 1 saw the report, lt is true that  Sir Henry  has just been returned as the Premier of Victoria after a very significant victory. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Order. 
1 will answer the question again. I said that I do not subscribe to the view expressed in the last part of the honourable senator's question and 1 believe, as does the Government, that the Senate has  a  very valuable part to play in our democratic processes and, indeed, in our method of government.  Sir Henry  Bolte has just been returned as Premier of Victoria after a very significant victory. There seems to be some difficulty in digesting that on the other side. Perhaps  Sir Henry  has been so involved in his State's affairs that he has not thoroughly read the report of the Senate Committee which touched off his outburst. I accept, and 1 am sure that the Senate and the people of Australia will accept, that what the Senate Committee's report contained will in fact, when it is thoroughly examined, be of great help to all the States. 
The Prime Minister has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
and (2) An appropriation of $350,000 was included in the Appropriation Act (No. 1) 1969- 70 - Division 430/3/12. An additional appropriation of$20,000 was included in the Appropriation Act (No. 3) 1969-70. The principal costs to be met from these appropriations are for motor transport, non-departmental staff engaged in connection with the visit, hospitality, communications, printing of programmes and provision of temporary stands. All costs have not yet been brought into account and it is anticipated that there will be some carry over to 1970-71. 
The costs of flights by R.A.A.F. aircraft of No. 34 Squadron in connection with the Royal Visit will be included in payments to the Department of Air by the Prime Minister's Department from the appropriation for Division 432. 
In accordance with past practice, the salaries and incidental costs of departmental staff who provided assistance, e.g. the staff of the Ceremonial and Hospitality Branch of my Department, the Service personnel who provided guards of honour and Service bands, are met from normal departmental appropriations. 
The Minister for Externa] Affairs has furnished the following reply: 
Under Article 43 of the United Nations Charter members undertake to make armed forces and other facilities available  to  the Security 
Council in order to contribute to the maintenance of international peace and security, on its call and in accordance with a special agreement or agreements. No members have however yet entered into the special agreements provided for under this article. Until the important military nations are prepared to do this, it seems unlikely that it would be possible to implement the Secretary-General's reported suggestion for an international police force'. 
Peace keeping forces are however being provided on a voluntary basis. Australia has a good record of participation in them, both in the provision of manpower and financial contributions. Since 1964 we have provided a police contingent to serve with the United Nations Force in Cyprus (UNFICYP). Currently we have observers also with the United Nations Truce Supervision Organisation (UNTSO) in the Middle East and with the United Nations Military Observer Group in India and Pakistan (UNMOGIP). 
The Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The estimated income tax revenue forgone in 1967-68 and 1968-69 as a result of these income tax concessions for taxable individual primary producers is as follows: 

<graphic href="044232197006126_7_0.jpg"></graphic>

There are no statistics available to enable estimates to be made of the proportion of these amounts that were allowed to primary producers of whose incomes 60% or more is derived other than from farm production. However, statistics are available of the amounts, identified as having been allowed as deductions under sections 75 and 76 of the Income Tax Assessment Act in respect of capital expenditure on land used for primary production, allowed to taxpayers subject to provisional tax whose main source of business income was other than primary production. The statistics indicate that about 8.2% and 11.5% of the above amounts of revenue forgone in 1967-68 and 1968-69 respectively was in respect of taxable individuals subject to provisional tax whose main source of personal extertion income (other than salaries or wages) was other than primary production. 
It should be noted that the above percentages do not take into account deductions allowed to individuals whose main source of total income was other than farm income but whose main source of business income was primary production. This means, for example, that a taxpayer who is primarily an investor deriving a large income from dividends and interest, but who has a farm from which only a small percentage of his total income is derived, would be classified as a primary producer and would not be included in these percentages. 
The Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senators question: 
Overseas experience indicates that the adoption of a fixed time limit for the purpose of separating taxable from non-taxable gains could have quite serious drawbacks. 
If Australia were simply to adopt an arbitrary time limit as the yardstick for determining which profitable transactions would or would not be taxed, the results in certain situations would be regarded by some persons as anomalous or inequitable. For example, a person could become liable for tax simply because unforeseen circumstances - perhaps financial difficulties - had forced him to sell recently acquired shares or other property. Under the existing law he would be taxed only if he had bought the property intending to re-sell it at a profit. 
By contrast, persons belter able to afford to pay tax on their profitable transactions would be the more likely to avoid it. They could achieve this by retaining their assets - which might well have been acquired for speculative reasons - until the arbitrary time limit had expired, before taking any profits. On the other hand, speculators would be prone to lake their losses within the set period wherever possible, thus preserving deductibility. 
Many speculative transactions take a considerable time to mature. An example is speculative lami sub-division and sale which normally requires more than 12 months - a period that has been suggested in some quarters as a basis for separating taxable from non-taxable transactions. If that period were to bc adopted, transactions of this kind, which are at present taxable, would escape tux to the detriment of the revenue. 
The present law has operated satisfactorily for many years and the intention of the legislation is quite unambiguous, in effect, the only gains taxed are those which arise from selling an asset thai was bought with the purpose of resale al a profit. Capital profits, on the other hand', do nol attract income lax. There is nothing anomalous in this. The Commissioner of Taxation has already announced that his senior officers will not split hairs i'n dealing with any borderline cases. 
-I wish to indicate to the Senate that it is anticipated that we will adjourn this afternoon and return next week. I am sure it is apparent to us all, and it has been so indicated to me by the Leaders of the Parties, that it is not possible for us to conclude the business that we have on the business paper and is anticipated by message. I therefore expect that we will lift this afternoon and return next Tuesday. It will be necessary for messages to go to the other place in connection with the National Health Bill and the Bills relating to civil aviation. I would wish that action to be taken before we rise this afternoon. The reasonable expectation is that we will adjourn at about 4 o'clock this afternoon, as is indicated on the business paper. I therefore move: 
That the Senate at its rising adjourn until Tuesday next at 3 p.m. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
 I must admit that I find this a little embarrassing. We are dealing with a reply to amendments which were the creation of this Senate and which were in fact moved by the Opposition. 
They are within the framework of the amendments. 
I have had about as much chance as the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  has, and I did not have the advantage of being associated with the preparation of the amendments, which are what brought the counter-proposals into existence. The Leader of the Opposition cannot have it both ways. I always try to be co-operative and concede that there may be a minimum amount of time necessary in which to look at this matter. I would be prepared to allow 1 hour, but I could not go beyond that. If I did we would be completely embarrassed later in the afternoon and I cannot allow that to happen for anybody's sake. 

 Senator MURPHY (New South WalesLeader of the Opposition) fi 1.3]  -  by leave - Either we deal with some other business and have an opportunity to study the counter-amendments outside or, if it is insisted upon, we will have to carry out our consideration, study and understanding of the matter in the Committee itself. If this is what the Government wants let it be done. I thought that what I was saying was reasonable. If the Government is not prepared to accede to that then let the matter proceed and we will deal with it in Committee. 
I suggest that it be stood down for 1 hour. If that is not  acceptable to the Leader of the Opposition we had better proceed. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. lt was estimated in the 1969-70 Budget that the Commonwealth would have a deficit amounting to $30m in the current financial year. At the time the Budget was introduced, it seemed probable that the amounts available from loan raisings in Australia and overseas and other financing transactions, which had amounted to $512m in 1968-69, would be more than sufficient to finance this estimated deficit. 
In statement No. 4 attached to the Budget Speech, it was explained that prospects for raising loans overseas seemed poorer than in 1968-69 and that prospects for net loan proceeds in Australia were affected by the fact that redemptions would probably be substantially greater than in 1968-69. At the same time, it was pointed out that it was not possible to estimate in advance with any degree of assurance net loan proceeds or the change in the Treasury note issue, as this would be affected by developments during the course of the year. In the event, it is now clear that net loan raisings overseas will be a great deal less than last year and that, as a result of the high level of redemptions so too will be net loan proceeds in Australia. In addition, largely as a result of monetary conditions, it seems likely that there will be a substantial decline in the Treasury note issue. 
Although, on present indications, it appears that the deficit will be close to the Budget estimate, there is a possibility that the amount available from loan raisings and other financing transactions will not be sufficient to finance the deficit. The purpose of this Bill, which is in the nature of a precautionary measure, is to obtain authority to borrow from the Reserve 
Bank the amount required to complete the financing of the deficit in 1969-70, if this proves to be necessary, and to expend the the proceeds of the borrowing for defence purposes. 
The amount to be borrowed from the Reserve Bank is, of course, a residual. It is the net result of all receipts, expenditures, borrowings and redemptions under other legislation approved by Parliament. Even at this late stage of the financial year, therefore, with large amounts of revenue still to be collected and expenditures still to be incurred and with fluctuations still possible in the volume of Treasury notes on issue, it is not possible to forecast with precision the amount which it may be necessary to borrow from the Reserve Bank to complete the financing of the deficit. Consequently, this Bill follows the practice introduced in 1968 under which no specific upper limit is set to the amount which might be borrowed under the legislation. Instead the Bill seeks authority to borrow such sums as the Treasurer considers to be the likely maximum amount necessary to complete the financing of the deficit. 
The borrowings for which authority is now sought will be made for defence purposes, and the proceeds of the borrowings will be applied to finance expenditure from the Loan Fund on defence services. The Bill is essentially a machinery measure to enable the Government to carry out policies approved under the various acts authorising expenditure, the raising of revenue and financing transactions. In itself, the Bill docs not authorise expenditures which have not already been authorised by Parliament. It provides for expenditure on defence services, which has already been authorised by Parliament in the Appropriation Acts, to be charged to the Loan Fund instead of to the Consolidated Revenue Fund. Provision for charging part of our defence expenditure to the Loan Fund has been made in previous years when the net amount available from loan proceeds and other financing transactions has not been adequate to finance the deficit. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator O'Byrne)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second dme. The purpose of this Bill is to increase the monetary benefits provided by the Commonwealth Employees' Compensation Act 1930-1969. Before explaining the provisions of the Bill, I think I should inform honourable senators that this is the second Commonwealth Employees' Compensation Bill 1970 that has been introduced into the Parliament this year. The Commonwealth Employees' Compensation Bill 1970 that was introduced by the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  on 19th March last in the House of Representives, following the introduction there of the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Bill 1970, dealt with other matters as well as monetary benefits and was withdrawn to make way for this Bill. 1 should mention also that when introducing the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Bill 1970 the Treasurer said that the Government's mind was not closed so far as that Bill was concerned and that suggestions for amendment would be considered on their merits during its passage. The Government already has under consideration at this time a number of suggestions from the Council of Commonwealth Public Service Organisations and also expects to receive suggestions from other sources such as the Australian Council of Trade Unions. Because consideration of the various suggestions will preclude the passage of the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Bill before the end of the current session, this Bill has been introduced with a view to its being passed this session so that payment of compensation at the increased rates already announced by the Treasurer can be commenced at an early date. 
In the case of the death of a Commonwealth employee the Act at present provides a basic lump sum benefit of $10,000 for the dependants of the deceased employee. Under the Bill this benefit is increased to $12,000, a figure considered by the Government to be reasonable and equitable by comparison with the amounts provided under the workers' compensation legislation of the States. The Act, in common with the legislation of the majority of the States, contains a special reduction provision applicable in some death cases when, before his death, the employee had received a lump sum payment. Under this provision, if such a payment exceeds the total of weekly  payments  which would have been paid but for the payment of the lump sum, then the basic lump sum death benefit is reduced by the amount of the excess, subject to a prescribed minimum payment. The minimum payment figure, currently $1,650, is seldom applicable, but it is increased to $2,000 by the Bill. 
In death cases the Act also provides for payment of $2.50 for each dependent child under 16 years of age of a deceased employee, subject to a minimum payment of $200. Under the Bill the weekly payment will be increased to $2.80 and the minimum payment to$280. The Bill provides for the weekly payment in incapacity cases to be increased from $28.15 to$31.80 for an adult employee without dependants and the weekly supplements of $6.80 and $2.50 for a dependent wife and each dependent child under 16 years of age to be increased to$7.70 and $2.80 respectively. The weekly payment for an employee who is a minor and has no dependants is increased from $21.10 to $23.85, thus maintaining the existing 75% relationship with the rate payable to an adult employee without dependants. 
The present maximum lump sum benefit for the more serious specified injuries is increased by the Bill from $10,000 to $12,000. The benefits for the less serious specified injuries will automatically increase in the same proportion. The maximum amount of compensation that may be paid in respect of any one accident to an employee who is not totally and permanently incapacitated is also increased from $10,000 to $12,000 in line with the increases in the basic lump sum death benefit and the maximum payment for a specified injury. I commend the Bill to honourable senators and express the hope that it will be given a speedy passage. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Mulvihill)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the  Bill be  now read a second  time. 
This Bill seeks parliamentary approval to borrowings by the Commonwealth of up to$US100m for the purchase of general defence equipment in the United States. Under the Loan (Defence) Act 1966, the Commonwealth arranged borrowings of $US450m to assist in the purchase of defence equipment in the United States. Those borrowings were almost completely committed by orders placed up to last December, and the Government wishes to make provision under the present Bill for further borrowings to finance orders placed from the beginning of this year for additional purchases of defence equipment in the United States. The loans arranged under the 1966 Act were all with the Export-Import Bank of the United States. They were used for the purchase of general defence equipment and for some payments on the F111 aircraft. 
The Loan (Defence) Act 1968 provided for the borrowing by the Commonwealth of a further $US75m to assist in financing the purchase of F111 aircraft. No drawings have yet been made against that loan and the borrowings to be made under the new proposed Act will therefore not be used to finance any payments on the F111 aircraft. It is expected that the Export-Import Bank of the United States will provide the loan funds to be raised under this legislation. We are at present negotiating with the Bank for this purpose, and the Bill has been drafted to provide authority for the Commonwealth to accept the usual provisions of Export-Import Bank loan agreements. Since the borrowing is for defence purposes the approval of the Loan Council is not required. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Devitt)  adjourned. 
The first thing I want to say to the Senate in response to the remarks by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  is that no sanctions will apply, as he has suggested. The Senate has decided to sit next week because it believes that it needs more time to consider the messages which have come and will be coming from the other place. The messages with which we were dealing prior to the Leader of the Opposition's remarks were in relation to Bills which were passed in the other place as late as, in some cases, 3.30 a.m. today. All the Ministers in this chamber are doing is putting these Bills on notice so that a member of the Opposition will seek the adjournment of the debate. A person who is not familiar with the procedures of the Senate could infer from what the Leader of the Opposition has said that these Bills are being passed forthwith without debate, but this is not the situation. 
But one could infer from what the Leader of the Opposition has said that this is what is happening. The Senate will be resuming next Tuesday and it will sit until it has completed all its business. 
The Senate has never been inhibited by the position in the other place. If, in its wisdom, the Senate decides to forward an amendment or a request for an amendment to the other place it can do so. Let us examine the simple issue which is involved. No matter when the other place rises there will be some Bills with which it will be dealing on the last day, unless it is debating a matter of urgency. The fact of the matter is that there will always be Bills which will be introduced into the Senate early and there will always be Bills which will be introduced late in the session. 
Please do not interrupt. This session is probably one of the longest autumn sessions in the history of the Parliament. The Senate has no control over the Bills which come to it from the other place. Regardless of whether legislation comes before the Senate early in the session or late in the session it is deal 1 with properly: It is an historical fact that the other place has had protracted debates on urgency matters, the printing of papers and so on. The Opposition in the other place has exercised its right to raise matters of public importance. All these matters are part of the parliamentary procedure, but they can lead to a delay in the message coming across to the Senate from the other place. The Senate has decided against sitting late into the night. It follows automatically that it does not sit the same number of hours as the other place. I do not approve of sitting late into the night and as the other place has been sitting until 3 or 4 o'clock in the morning over a period of time it is inevitable that there will be a banking up in the number of Bills, coming into this place. 

 - Senator Murphy would imply by his interjection that the matter will solve itself automatically, but it does not work that way and he knows it as well as the rest of us. Legislation has to be dealt with in the other place and then the Senate has to receive a message before it can deal with the legislation. 
Yes, it is true. In fact, I think  Senator Murphy  said at one time that he was pleased to see that the Senate had some Bills to deal with early in the session, lt is laughable to suggest that the Government is rushing Bills into the Senate at the last moment because it knows that when dealing with them next week the Senate will not exert its full conviction because of a fear that the Senate's amendments or requests for amendments will not be considered by the other place until it re-assembles and that delays in the legislation will be caused. If a member of the Opposition or any other honourable senator wishes to amend a Bill and he has the numbers to do so he is free to act. I hope that honourable members opposite do not have the numbers, but the fact is that if they choose to operate the numbers game they can do so. It is a part of our parliamentary system that the Senate can move an amendment or request an amendment and the other place will have to give regard to coming back to deal with it. I think  Senator Murphy's  complaint is a little more innocent than it sounds. 
I move: 
That the Bill be  now  read a  second time. 
With the concurrence of honourable senators I incorporate my second reading speech in Hansard. It reads: This Bill should be read in conjunction with the States Receipts Duty (No. 1) Bill .1970, the States Receipts Duty (No. 2) Bill 1970, the States Receipts Duty (No. 3) Bill 1970 and the States Grants (Receipts Duty) Bill 1970 which I shall be introducing shortly. The purpose of the group of 5 Bills is to provide the legislative framework for the imposition by the Commonwealth, at the request of the States and for their benefit, of a duty on business receipts so as to achieve the general result that the States do not lose revenue as a consequence of the High Court decisions invalidating the receipts duty legislation of the States in its application to certain types of receipts. The Commonwealth has long accepted that, when the States are faced with large abnormal budgetary difficulties through circumstances beyond their control, it may be necessary for the Commonwealth to consider special measures of assistance. Accordingly, when the High Court decision in the Hamersley case cast doubts on the constitutional validity of the receipts duty legislation of the States in its application to certain types of receipts, the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  indicated last September that the Commonwealth would see that the States did not lose revenue in 1969-70 in the event that this doubt was confirmed. 
At a special Premiers' Conference held on 18th November 1969 to consider the position, the Premiers said that the States had expected to receive a total of about $70m in 1969-70 from their receipts duties. About $40m of this revenue was estimated to come from duty on the proceeds of sale of goods - the area that was considered most likely to be held invalid. The Premiers estimated that, if the States' receipts duties were discontinued altogether, the loss of revenue to the States in 1969-70 would be up to $50m. It was recognised that, if there were a substantial revenue loss and no replacement tax were introduced, the inflationary effects on the economy would be severe. The outcome of the Conference was a request by the Premiers, to which the Commonwealth agreed, that in the event of the receipts duty of the States being found invalid in some or all respects, the Commonwealth should introduce legislation, with operation retrospectively to 18th November 1969, to impose a like tax for the benefit of the States. 
At a further Premiers Conference held on 26th February 1970 following the High Court decisions given on the previous day, the Premiers requested, and the Commonwealth agreed, that the Commonwealth legislation should have continuing operation beyond 30th June 1970. It was also agreed that the Commonwealth legislation should apply only to business receipts, which are the receipts in respect of which the great bulk of the invalid area of the existing receipts duty legislation of the States falls. 
The 5 Bills give effect to the arrangements 1 have outlined. The legislation is being introduced at the request of the States and for their benefit, with the proceeds of duty collections under the legislation being payable to the States as section 96 grants. 
Before proceeding to outline the contents of the legislation, I feel I must strongly emphasise the importance, particularly in view of existing demand pressures in the economy, of ensuring that there is not at this stage any substantial loss in budgeted revenue collections such as would occur if the Commonwealth did not legislate on the basis requested by the States. In this connection I might mention that the Premiers have indicated that, in the absence of Commonwealth legislation to impose receipts duty where it is in the nature of an excise, the States would be unlikely to be able to impose receipts duty where it is not in the nature of an excise. In these circumstances, it would clearly be dangerously irresponsible to allow a retrospective reduction in tax revenues at the rate of some $70m per annum. The legislation will, in accordance with the arrangements I have outlined, have retrospective application to 18th November 1969. However, provision is made for an exemption from liability to duty under Commonwealth law if State duty - whether or not validly imposed - has been paid, or within a specified time is paid, under State law in respect of receipts during a transitional period from 18th November 1969 until a date to be proclaimed under the Commonwealth legislation. Receipts specifically exempted under the provisions of existing States Acts - or to which these Acts do not. validly or invalidly. extend - will also not be liable to duty under the Commonwealth legislation during the transitional period. 
The effect of this in the case of Queensland warrants special mention. The rate of duty under the Commonwealth legislation will be lc in $10, or 0.1%. This is the rate applying under the State legislation at present in operation in all States other than Queensland. In Queensland, the rate at present in operation is 2c in $100, or 0.02%). A practical effect of the provision 1 have referred to is that, for receipts in Queensland during the transitional period, there will be no liability for duty under the Commonwealth law if duty is paid to Queensland at the lower rate or if the receipt is under $20 and for that reason not subject to Queensland duty. From the end of the transitional period the combined effect of the Commonwealth legislation and legislation already passed by the Queensland Parliament will be that the rate on receipts dutiable under either law will be the same as in other States - that is, lc in $10. 
The Commonwealth's approach to the legislation before the Senate has been that, as it is being introduced at the request of the States and for their benefit, with the Commonwealth acting in a sense as agent for the States for the purpose, it has been essentially for the States collectively to state what detailed provisions should be included in the Commonwealth legislation within the framework of the agreed arrangements. Accordingly, the detailed provisions have been agreed collectively with the State governments. This has necessitated a large amount of give and take as between the various States because the Commonwealth legislation must of course apply uniformly in all States and there are innumerable differences in the detailed provisions of the existing legislation of each of the States. To a large degree it has been a matter of achieving an amalgam, acceptable to the States collectively, of the varying provisions of the existing State legislation. After the Commonwealth legislation comes into effect the States will continue to impose receipts duty on those receipts that remain validly taxable under their own legislation and to the extent that they are not subject to duty under the Commonwealth legislation. Queensland is so far the only State to have taken legislative action for its receipts duty to conform to this pattern. The other States intend to do so when they can. Until they do, they will take the administrative steps necessary to ensure that no double duty arises after the date when the Commonwealth legislation comes into effect. I understand that State governments that have not already made this clear will be making announcements on this point. 
The numerous differences - many of detail but some of substance - between the provisions of existing legislation of the individual States have made it unavoidable that the provisions of the Commonwealth legislation do not in all respects coincide with those of any of the States. Within the practical limits, however, the endeavour of the Commonwealth and the States has been, so far as taxpayers are concerned, to restore as nearly as possible the position that would have applied if receipts duty had continued to be imposed wholly under State legislation. This has been the aim both as to liability for duty and to arrangements for its payment. While the Commonwealth Commissioner of Taxation will be responsible for the general administration of the Commonwealth legislation, the day-to-day administration will continue to be carried out by Stale officers in conjunction with their administration of the State legislation. Duty under the Commonwealth legislation will be payable only through the lodgment of periodical returns, and not through the stamping of receipts. The returns, accompanied by payments of duty, will be lodged with State officers who, for the purposes of the Commonwealth legislation, will be appointed as collectors of receipts duties for their respective States. In practice, the return period for each taxpayer will generally be the period applicable for purposes of State law. For a business that has not been lodging State returns, the return period will be 1 month or such other period as is determined on a basis appropriate to the particular case. 
Where a taxpayer, during a return period, receives money that is subject to duty under Commonwealth law and also receives money that is subject to duty under State law, or - and I would expect there to be few cases of this - receives money part of which is subject to Commonwealth duty and part of which is subject to State duty the taxpayer will be able to furnish the appropriate collector or receipts duties the one return showing separately the amounts subject to duty under Commonwealth and State laws. Payment of the one amount in satisfaction of the total liability to the duty under the two laws will be accepted. 
As I have already indicated, the application of the Commonwealth legislation will be limited to the taxation of what 1 have broadly referred to as business receipts. Subject to specified exemptions, duty will be payable under Commonwealth law in respect of money received, or deemed to be received, in Australia by a person in the course of carrying on a business in a State. Carrying on a business will, for the purpose of the legislation, have its ordinary general meaning and will include engagement in a trade or profession, but not as an employee. All money received - or deemed by the legislation to be received - by a company residing, or carrying on a business, in a State, will be regarded as being received in the course of carrying on business. This rule will also apply to partnerships, although there will be no liability to duty on amounts received by a partner from a partnership in his capacity of partner, nor by a partnership from a partner in that capacity. 
A company is denned by the legislation to include incorporated and unincorporated bodies, but exemptions are provided for the receipts of a wide range of organisations such as unlicensed clubs, charitable institutions, prescribed marketing authorities and prescribed public authorities. Provision is also made for rebates of duty where the duty has been paid on moneys received but subsequently repaid. This may occur, for example, where repayments are made of money that has been paid as a tender deposit or for goods that are later returned to the seller. 
The legislation contains special provisions^ relating te principals and agents, including solicitors and their clients. The broad purpose of these provisions is to ensure that the interposition of an agent in arrangements for payment of money by one person to another does not cause any greater liability to arise than would accrue if the payments were made directly. As is the case under the receipts duty legislation of the majority of the States, the primary liability for duty will fall on the agent rather than the principal. There are, however, likely to be cases where it will be more convenient to the parties for the principal, and not the agent, to pay duty on amounts received by the agent on behalf of the principal. Provision is made in the legislation for the principal to arrange that, subject to administrative approval, the primary liability for the duty may be transferred to him in these cases. 
Under the Commonwealth legislation duty will be imposed on money received in Australia in the course of carrying an a business in a State, and the amount of section 96 grants payable to each State will be the amount of duty collected in respect of money received in that State. However, one arrangement included at the request of the States is that, where goods or services are supplied in one State but payment for them is received in another State or in an internal or external Territory or overseas, the receipts are to be included in a return lodged, and duty is to be payable, in the State in which the goods or services are supplied. Goods will be regarded as being supplied at the place where the property in them passes. One effect of these provisions is that, while duty is not being imposed in the Territories, avoidance of duty by arrangements designed to take advantage of that fact should substantially be prevented. 
A person will be regarded as having received money irrespective of whether the receipt is in the form of cash, or of cheques, other bills of exchange or promissory notes. However, a transaction that is merely an equal exchange of money for money - for example, the cashing of a cheque or the exchange of notes for coins - will not be treated as a receipt of money by either party. Payments by a person into his current or savings bank account and withdrawals by him from such an account are also exempt. 
There are circumstances in which a person will be regarded as having received money for the purposes of the legislation, although in a strict sense he may not have done so. A deposit by a person to the bank account of another person, or a debit of an amount against a person's bank account transferred to the credit of another person, will be treated as a receipt of money by the other person. So too will the receipt by a creditor of a consideration other than money in the settlement of a debt or part of a debt. Money will also be deemed to have been received by a creditor where his debtor does not pay him in cash but instead, with his authority, credits him with the amount of the debt or part of it. 
In common with other Commonwealth taxing legislation, the legislation provides the machinery for a taxpayer dissatisfied with his liability as determined under the legislation to object against the liability assessed. If the objection is not allowed, the taxpayer may request a hearing by a Taxation Board of Review and may appeal to the High Court from a decision of such a board as to any question of law involved. The legislation is so drafted that a person who wishes to dispute liability in this way may request the commissioner to issue  an  assessment of duty so that he may have the matter with which he is dissatisfied considered by an independent tribunal. 
The enforcement provisions in the Bill are modelled on comparable provisions in other Commonwealth taxation laws. 1 have, in this introductory speech, explained the general background to and framework of the Commonwealth legislation, and in addition have attempted to indicate in brief and broad terms and main technical provisions embodied in the legislation. However, particularly in view of the complex nature of the legislation, I am having circulated to members an explanatory memorandum setting out more detailed information on technical and procedural matters. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Murphy)  adjourned. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
With the concurrence of honourable senators, I incorporate my second reading speech in Hansard. It reads: The purpose of this Bill is to provide for the making of section 96 grants to the States of the amounts of receipts duties collected under the States Receipts Duties (Administration) Bill 1970, the States Receipts Duty Bill (No. 
1970, the States Receipts Duty Bill (No. 
1970 and the States Receipts Duty Bill (No. 3) 1970. I explained the general effect of all 5 Bills, taken together, in my second reading speech when introducing the States Receipts Duties (Administration) Bill 1970. There is not much more to be said in explanation of the Bill now before the Senate. The amounts to be paid as section 96 grants to each State will be the amounts of duty paid to the collector of receipts duties for that State in accordance with the provisions of the administration Bill. Payment of the grants to the States will be made at convenient regular intervals as agreed between the Commonwealth and the States. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Murphy)  adjourned. 
Senate  adjourned  at 3.56 p.m. until Tuesday next at 3 p.m. 
[4.30]-l move: 
That the Senate, at its rising, adjourn till tomorrow at 10 a.m. 1 also move: 
That the luncheon suspension for the remainder of the sittings be from 1 to 2. IS p.m. 
We have extended the luncheon break a little because it was a bit tight. We propose to start each day at 10 a.m. till the completion of the sittings. 
Questions resolved in the affirmative. 
[4.30]  -  in reply - I thank the Senate for the speedy passage of the Bill. 
I  Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
[8.35] - I can only promise, as I did before, that the points made by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  will naturally be looked at when this legislation is subsequently examined for future presentation to the Parliament. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
by leave - Naturally I am trying to get myself and the Senate in a position where we may reasonably expect to conclude the sittings tomorrow afternoon. I have no desire to push anybody any longer than they think they can reasonably carry on. If the Committee thinks that it would prefer to come back in the morning, I accept that as a reasonable approach. I want to make it abundantly clear that 1 am as exhausted as anybody and probably more so than some. My only purpose is to try to help the Senate to reach a position at which we might reasonably expect to finish tomorrow afternoon. For that reason, I agree to the reporting of progress. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Progress reported. 
[2.17]  -  I have nothing to add to the explanation 1 gave before the suspension of the sitting. However, I would like to comment shortly on the final contribution by  Senator Cavanagh.  He gave an illustration in which he suggested that the Regulations and Ordinances Committee might recommend disallowance for the reasons he stated. 1 put to him that the other House could easily say that in its judgment it was a valid regulation. After all, the Parliament is not the final arbiter as to legality. Parliament can be the ultimate arbiter in determining whether to accept a regulation. I would say that that is a fact of life. 

 Senator Cavanagh referred to the prestige of the Senate. I would think that the prestige of the Senate is upheld by the fact that the point at issue is now being introduced in an Act of Parliament. An expression of opinion by a committee of the Senate is not a legal opinion. I repeat what I said before we adjourned for lunch: The legal advisers to the Crown believed that it was a valid regulation. It remained a regulation until the Senate disallowed it. The disallowance was an act of reality and that is why we now have this measure. I think it is taking a tremendously broad view to suggest that, because a committee of either House expresses the view that a provision is not within the framework of the legal requirements of the regulations, that is complete and absolute. That is not the point at issue. The point is that the Senate disallowed a regulation and an Act of Parliament is to be put in its place. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
[12.22] - The introduction of this legislation is the result of the disallowance of regulations by the Senate which disallowance took effect as from 16th April 1970. lt is a rather confined Bill in the sense that it proposes to do by statute what in effect had previously been done by regulation.  Senator Cavanagh  has moved an amendment to add certain words lo the motion for the second reading of the 
Bill. I will revert to that in a moment. In the general sense, in leading for the Opposition  Senator Cavanagh  gave a fairly accurate picture of the background to this Bill. But 1 think he then went on to make some judgments and draw some conclusions which perhaps go beyond the Bill and the intention of the Bill, lt is true that the Regulations and Ordinances Committee, in recommending the disallowance of the regulations that provided for the payment of allowances to the 3 Chiefs of Staff of the Services, expressed the view thai it was doubtful whether such payments were properly authorised by the regulations. But the dominant and overwhelming consideration - this emerged in subsequent discussions in the Senate - was that even if the payments were authorised the Committee held the strong view that this should be done by statute. The Senate voted to disallow the regulations as from I6;h April. The Government, reacting to thai decision, introduced this Bill. 
1 am repeating exactly what  Senator Cavanagh  said. Obviously he was not listening to me. I repeated his 2 arguments. He said that the Regulations and Ordinances Committee expressed a doubt whether the allowances could be properly authorised by regulation. Secondly - this argument predominated in the debate - he argued that even if it w.ere proper to do it by regulation, the Committee had slated that it would be more appropriate and more proper to do it by statute. The Government reacted to that view by bringing down this Bill, which will give effect to the payment of these allowances as from the date of the disallowance of the regulations until the time when they will be covered by an appropriation.  Senator Cavanagh  referred to clause 4. He argued that because the Government has brought down a Bill it is accepting the view that prior to disallowance the regulation was not valid. I repeat that the legal advisers of the Crown have held and still hold the view that the regulation was properly drawn. Quite clearly they hold that view otherwise the Bill would have had retrospective effect prior to 16th 
April. The Commonwealth works on the basis of the advice which it obtains from its legal advisers. Until their view is disturbed by a court judgment or otherwise they are entitled to hold it. The Gover, ment has said: All right, the Senate in it. judgment believes it would be better to do it by Act and it has disallowed the regulation from that date. Since you have disallowed it from 16th April we will bring in a Bill to make it effective by legislation from 16th April'. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI do nol want to be cross-examined; it is a very disconcerting approach. The Government's view is that the regulation was valid but it ceased to be valid from the date of disallowance. For that reason the Government has brought down a Bill to meet the situation by an Act of Parliament. In fact, the matter Will be dealt with by appropriation later in the year. 

No, it does not. You are trying to hedge your own argument. For the third time I say that the legal officers of the Crown believe it was a valid regulation but when it became a disallowed regulation of the Senate, it was non-existent as a regulation. The Government proposes to meet the argument of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee by prescribing the allowance in an Act of Parliament. It does not matter whether the Government is formed by the Australian Labor Party, the Liberal Party or the Australian Democratic Labor Party; the fact is that it is advised by ils legal advisers. No government could do otherwise. We all recognise this fact of life. Here the Government was confronted with the disallowance and it has brought in a Bill which will resolve the situation. I want to draw attention to the amendment moved by  Senator Cavanagh  which proposes to add the following words to the motion for the second reading:  but the Senate is of the opinion that there should be a full review of the scheme  of  annual allowances for  the  expenses of office and that for this purpose there should be laid on the Table of the Senate, before consideration of the Appropriation 
Bill 1970-71, a comparative statement setting out the annual allowances for expenses of officers paid . . . 
The amendment then lists categories of officers from (a) to (f). The final one, (f), states:  any other persons- 
This may meet a whole magnitude of situations as 1 am sure the honourable senator would agree-  such statement to include reasons for the differential in the rates of allowances for the expenses of officers. - 
Taken in isolation away from this Bill that portion of the amendment stresses a point of view which could find expression by some resolution of the Senate for a review. But I do not believe that it is appropriate to this Bill. The amendment refers to the expenses paid to senators and members or office bearers of Parliament. I would think that no practising parliamentarian would have any doubt as to why an allowance is paid. The amendment then refers to First Division officers of the Public Service, First Division officers of the parliamentary service, heads of statutory corporations, members of judicial, arbitration and other tribunals, and other persons. I think I argued this point some time ago: I do not believe you can compare the functions of senators and members with those of officers of the Parliament or the Public Service. A clear distinction is drawn in their functions. In any event, I think it is significant if one excludes 'any other person' because it could mean anything or nothing. To my knowledge the only other category which would not receive an allowance in some form would be the First Division officer of the parliamentary service. 
It is a matter for some debate and judgment. I do not suggest that this Bill is the vehicle for it. I think it would be accepted universally that in certain fields of endeavour and at certain levels allowances are paid. These allowances are paid for a variety of reasons. They represent extra curricula payments which people at certain levels of engagement are required to meet in their employment. Whilst this amendment does not deny the second reading passage of the Bill, I say that it is inappropriate to the Bill. 1 think it would be more practicable to bring down a resolution which could be debated in the Senate. The debate could cover the substance of the points made but it would not be linked to the Bill, which deals with the situation relating to the heads of 3 Services who were subject to the disallowance of the regulation. I would not think the Senate ought to be debating it in that context at all. I suggest the Senate has its rights and privileges to introduce a motion for consideration of a certain aspect of allowances, obviously having regard to First Division officers of the parliamentary service because, significantly, they are the only ones not in the category the honourable senator has mentioned. Other forms of the House could be used. That would be the more appropriate time to do it. For that reason I resist the amendment. 
[3.53] - As the amendment was seconded, I shall not be closing the debate. When this Bill was discussed in another place the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  indicated that he was prepared to consider the proposal to appoint a joint select committee. He pointed out in the other place that at the time he spoke there was not the capacity in terms of time to be more precise than that. Therefore, by way of reply to  Senator McManus  and to help his thinking on the matter, 1 say that the Government would not resist the amendment moved by  Senator Devitt,  which would be on all fours with the proposal accepted by the Treasurer in the other place. Therefore, no division will be necessary. That amendment will be accepted. I thank the Senate for the expected passage of the legislation. The purpose of the Bill is to bring the formula that determines the category entitlements of more senior members contributing under the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act into line with the corresponding formula in the Superannuation Act. 

 Senator Devit, built his connibution to the debate, lo a degree, on the problems inherent in the Act. He mentioned some cases and talked about particular cases. 1 think he set about to demonstrate some deep seated lack of knowledge in many fields of the Services in relation to the implications of the DFRB legislation. I am able to tell him thai an explanatory booklet has been compiled and is only awaiting the passage of this legislation before printing can be completed and an up to date booklet issued throughout the defence forces. That will be a help in regard to the type of problem that he mentioned in the debate. He also made reference to contributions as percentages of entitlements. Servicemen who contribute for their full entitlements under this legislation contribute, on average, for 20% of the pension benefits. This figure was formerly 22i%, but it was reduced in January 1969 in the light of the results of the first quinquennial investigation. 
There is only one other matter to which I wish to refer. Reference was made to section 53a and invalidity pensions being suspended under that section. I want to make it clear that section 53a was inserted in the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act in 1959 on the basis of the Allison Committee's recommendation that invalidity benefits should have regard not only to the medical condition of the ex-serviceman but also to his earning capacity and earnings. A decision to suspend pension does not sever a pensioner's connection with the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund; nor does it affect a contingent liability of the Fund in respect of the benefit entitlement of a deceased pensioner's dependants. The pensioner's case is kept under notice by the Defence Forces Retirements Benefits Board and is reviewed periodically for the purposes of section 53a. 
When the pensioner is informed that his pension has been suspended under section 53a, he is also advised to notify the Board - stating the facts - of any substantial reduction in his civil remuneration. In the event of this occurring, the Board conducts a further review of his case as soon as practicable. I would add that a similar invalidity pension suspension rule exists in the superannuation scheme for Commonwealth public servants. That is interesting. As honourable senators know, there is inherent in this legislation an attempt to bring the 2 schemes together. I thank the Senate for the passage of this legislation. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Original question, as amended, agreed to. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
[4.46] - in reply - I am rather surprised that the Opposition has chosen to oppose this legislation. It is an appropriation bill in a sense. Significantly. as I read the daily Hansard, it was not opposed by the Opposition in another place. 
If we are speaking about the Loan (Defence) Bill, according to page 3458 of my daily Hansard the motion for the second reading in the House of Representatives was resolved in the affirmative and no vote was taken. 
1 accept the qualification. As the honourable senator has indicated, this Bil'l approves the borrowing of $100m for defence purposes - the purchase of general defence equipment. The honourable senator makes some play of the fact that the Senate is not being told the terms and conditions of the loan. I remind him that to seek permission to borrow is the normal procedure in the Parliament. To the best of my knowledge it has never been the practice in this Parliament to provide in advance the sort of information that he is seeking in relation to this Bill. As the second reading speech makes abundantly clear, we intend to go on the market to borrow $!00m, and it is expected that the Export-Import Bank of the United States will1 provide the loan funds to be raised under this legislation. We are at present negotiating with the Bank for this purpose. The Bill has been drafted to provide authority for the Commonwealth to accept the usual provisions of ExportImport Bank loan agreements. This happens right throughout any fiscal year of Government. A Government does not purport to write into a Bill in advance of negotiating a loan the terms and conditions of that loan. This is axiomatic and I do not think I need develop the argument further. 
As long as I can remember, and I am sure as long as anybody here can remember - particularly  Senator Gair  who was in another Parliament just as I was in another Parliament - it has been recognised that when a Government goes on the market to borrow, the point of decision is when the negotiations are completed on the terms on which the money is to be borrowed. 
A legislative power is needed to go on the market, but the conditions cannot be written into legislation in advance. 
The parliamentary control will come when the negotiations have been completed. Scrutiny will be given to the activities and accounts of the service departments in the normal' process of examining the estimates and other financial provisions. The only other point that the honourable senator made was I think that he wanted to know what equipment would be purchased with the loan funds. 
I will come to the revenue aspect in a moment. The funds borrowed will cover all the services - the Departments of Air, Navy and Army. Indeed it will cover the Department of Supply to a degree in the sense that we as a department are involved in procurement for the services. It is not appropriate to detail the basket of the items. It is across the board expenditure. The honourable senator asked whether the money was for this and whether it was for that. The answer is yes, because the expenditure will relate to the various aspects of the services. It will be part of the expenditure on the defence programme as postulated in the statement of the Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  some time ago. The precise details cannot be spelt out in this legislation, but the money is clearly for defence purposes. It is not for the purchase of the F111 aircraft. It will be spent largely by the Department of Air and the Department of the Navy, to some extent by the Department of the Army, and to a very modest extent by the Department of Supply. I cannot give the honourable senator the details. They are not available to me. At the point of purchase, of course, some of them would be classified, as he would appreciate. There is no significance in that. We do not want to be making announcements in advance of what we will secure. 
The honourable senator asked: 'Why not use revenue?' This is an argument which has vast ramifications. It extends far beyond the field of defence, into the field of the total loan programme for the Commonwealth and States. It is unreal to imagine that we can live out of revenue. It just cannot be done. When loans are used at least some contribution is made by posterity to the defence of Australia. I think it is a fair proposition that it would be quite wrong to expect the people of 1970 to be completely responsible for a defence purchasing programme that may extend over a 5-year period or a 10-year period.  Senator Devitt  and I have both been in local government in our time, and we have heard the classic argument that was put forward a long time ago about carrying on a municipality by relying only upon revenue. The municipality which relied on revenue for its existence was always a very backward municipality. It denied its people comforts and advantages in their time because revenue was insufficient for its needs. The same situation applies in relation to defence. Because Australia is a huge country and our defence requirements are very heavy indeed, we could never properly defend this country if we had to rely solely upon revenue income. We have an obligation to our heritage to make ourselves defensively strong. I say with great respect we can never do that if we hope to pay for our defence out of revenue alone. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThat is right. Both defence and national development need a forward looking programme. I think the obvious thing to do now is to put the question to a decision. I hope that the example of what happened in the other place will be followed and no division will be called for. 
Question put: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
[8.2]  -  in reply - I thank honourable senators for the speedy conclusion of the second reading debate on this Bill. I think it is understood that this Bill is analogous to the Seamen's Compensation Bill and that the second reading debate on this Bill will cover both Bills. The general field of workers' compensation has been fairly widely covered in the debate. Some of the remarks have been historical and some contentious but generally speaking the debate has covered the broad aspect and has been informative although it has not been directed particularly to the Bill. I accept that the Senate has indicated that it will pass this Bill. Indeed,  Senator Bishop,  who led for the Opposition indicated that this was so. 
There were  a  number of matters referred to which I think need to be brought out.  Senator Bishop  referred to the need for conferences to be held. He pointed out that the original Bill was introduced in the other place but that the Government decided not to go ahead with it because of representations that were made about its contents. That decision was referred to in my second reading speech. The Government decided to bring in this short Bill now before us in order to make the benefits contained in it available and leave time for consideration of the far broader, more complex and very legal matters on which views had been expressed, and continue to be expressed, not only at governmental level but in the trade union movement and the Commonwealth Public Service.  Senator Bishop  spoke of the need to have conferences rather than have the Government tell organisations all about the legislation afterwards. I think that is a fair interpretation of what he put to the Senate. 

I can inform him and the Senate that conferences are imminent - I will not make any firmer statement than that - with the trade union movement on the type of problems to which he referred and which were the cause of the decision to introduce a consolidated Bill at a later stage.  Senator Cavanagh  said that the reasons given in the other place for the introduction of this Bill were not the true reasons. He said that the Opposition was ready to deal with the legislation and therefore the true reasons were not given for delaying the principal Bill. I. want to read to the Senate what was said by the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  in the debate  on  the Seamen's Compensation Bill in the other place. 1 understand - 1 am prepared lo be corrected if wrong - that he is the shadow Minister for Labour. A cognate debate on this Bill and the Seamen's Compensation Bill was held in the other place. The honourable member for Hindmarsh said, in part: 
The Opposition has completed in draft form a full answer to the Governments Bill for a new Act. and copies of the Opposition's proposal in that form are already in the hands of interested organisations, including the Secretary of the Australian Council of Trade Unions. Replies have been received from the Council  of  Commonwealth Public Service Organisations. We-  1 emphasise this po,n -  await a reply from the Secretary of the ACTU. Because this has not yet come lo hand we have had to bold over until the Budget session our reply to  the  Bill. For those  treasons  the Opposition will not delay the passage  of  this Bill by lengthy debate, by moving amendments or by calling for divisions. 
Honourable senators can see from that statement by the shadow Minister for Labour in the other place that not only the Government but the Opposition as well felt the need and justification for deferring the larger Bill. Having established thai point, I want to refer to a series of figures mentioned by  Senator Cavanagh.  They were very difficult to follow but I am not suggesting thai there was anything wrong with them. 1 understood him to say at the outse: of his comments that the new proposals in this Bill would still leave persons in receipt of Commonwealth compensation worse off in many instances than they are under State compensation legislation. Therefore I propose to cite figures which will help in my argument. 
I obtained some figures showing a comparison of weekly payments under State compensation legislation and the rates proposed under this Bill. In the case of the Commonwealth the rate payable to a man is shown to bc S3 1.80 a week. That is the figure which has been quoted to honourable senators, and it is the highest figure. In New South Wales the figure is $26; in Victoria, $20; in Queensland, 29.30; in South Australia, $27: and in Tasmania, 29.80. The figure in Tasmania is the closest to that of the Commonwealth. In the case of a man with a wife the Commonwealth figure is shown to be S39.50. The figures for the States vary from as low as $26 in 
Victoria to $37.90 in Queensland. The figure for Tasmania is $37. The Queensland figure is the closest to that of the Commonwealth. In the case of a man with a wife and I child, which I think is a fair basis on which to ascertain whether the Commonwealth payment is in excess of that in the Stales- 
Sena or  Sir KENNETH  ANDERSON- 
I am responding to an argument put to me. The honourable senator must appreciate that 1 am making no higher claim for these figures than to use them in rebuttal of the argument put. In the case of a man with a wife and I child the Commonwealth figure is $42.30. The Tasmanian figure is $40.80 and for the other Slates it is as low as $28.50. 

I would bc perfectly happy to have these figures incorporated in Hansard if they would help the honourable senator in studying the argument I am advancing. The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  intervened in the debate to put a legal argument about when the compensation payment was due from a certain dale. He pointed out that there could be conflict of opinion as to the amount of compensation to be paid to an employee because of escalation or de-escalation of his wages. The honourable senator asked whether I would acknowledge the point of view he look. I said by way of interjection that I understood that this point was covered in the deferred legislation which is to be brought in during the Budget session. I am now informed that the general point raised by him is covered at least in part in the new proposals for further amendment of the Commonwealth Employees' Compensation Act. However that Bill might not do precisely what  Senator Murphy  thinks should be done. The Bill has been deferred by common consent in order to look into all these matters. Accordingly, this point will be given further scrutiny. 
I do not think I need go further into the second reading debate. I have covered the main points raised and I recognise that the Senate is supporting this Bill. I appreciate that there were a number of general matters in the field of workers compensation mentioned to which I could respond but I do not think they are relevant to this Bill. A question was raised in relation to negligence. I had the momentary thought that negligence could reflect both ways. In any event, an employee not only has a claim for negligence but, as I understand it, there is a common law right against an employer or his agent where it is considered there could have been negligence on the employer's side. I thank the Senate for the passage of the Bill to this point and hope that it will have a speedy passage through the Committee stage. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
[12.18 a.m.] - in reply - I, too, am appreciative of  Senator Greenwood's  raising this matter for discussion in the Senate, even though the hour is late. It is not easy for me to speak after 3 lawyers have applied their minds to this question, but there are a couple of things I should say. Firstly, I want to acknowledge what  Senator Murphy  has said, that for quite a reasonable time the Opposition did provide us with a pair for the late  Senator McKellar.  I think that was in the convention of the way in which this Senate works. The Government was appreciative of that. It is true thatI, as Leader of the Government in the Senate, where numbers are such a vital factor, have been acutely embarrassed, particularly in more recent times when we were dealing with the National Health Bill, which was a contentious issue and which was debated at some length in this chamber. On a number of occasions during that debate there was an equality of numbers in the voting, and if the Senate had been at its proper strength of 60 senators questions would have been determined in such a way as to avoid a message being sent to the other place and a message being returned from the other place to the Senate in regard to certain amendments to the Bill. 
The current problem has arisen in New South Wales. It may be that other States take the same interpretation of section15 of the Constitution as does Western Australia. The circumstances in New South Wales at present have pointed the matters up in a most dramatic and significant way. 1 agree that the Senate should give this matter further consideration out of the atmosphere of the present situation. We should look at the matter in the context of directing it to the attention of the States because they have to make a determination on their interpretation of section15 of the Constitution. Therefore, it is a matter not only for New South Wales but also for the other States. I believe that the Senate's point of view would be strengthened if it were to point out to the sovereign States that the Senate is a States' House and part of its constitutional function is to look after the interests of the States. 
It seems extraordinary that there should be a diversity of opinion amongst the States as to how casual vacancies should be filled in accordance with the Constitution. It would be in the interests of the States as well as of the people of Australia if there were agreement by the States as to the manner in which casual vacancies are to be filled. Reference to Quick and Garran would appear to indicate that casual vacancies should be filled without delay. I think a vacancy should be filled with expedition within the framework of the 2 provisions by a joint meeting of the 2 Houses of the State or by an Executive decision which is confirmed afterwards. If the Senate approaches this problem in the right manner and with dignity it should be able to establish a case which will be unanswerable by the States. The Senate should be able to work out a formula which will meet the intentions which the founding fathers had when they wrote the Constitution. I shall certainly have regard to bringing this matter before the Senate at an appropriate time for further consideration. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Senate adjourned at 12.23 a.m. (Thursday) 
The Prime Minister has provided the following answer to the honourable senators question: 
I refer the honourable senator to the reply I gave on 21 May 1970 to question No. 290 (Hansard, page 1663). 
by leave - 1 would like to suggest a method of procedure for the debate on the States receipts duties Bills. I suggest that we have a cognate debate on all the Bills, which are inter-related and one vote at the second reading stage. I refer to orders of the day Nos. 4, 5, 6, 7, and 8. If the Government is successful at the second reading stage then of course we will proceed to debate the Bills separately in Committee. 
On 11th March,  Senator Murphy  asked me the following question without notice: 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for External Affairs supply, for the information of the Senate, information as to when Australia was asked to become involved in Vietnam, from whom the request came, in what form the request was made and, if the request was in any written or printed form, whether a copy of it could be tabled in the Senate? 1 said that I would attempt to obtain the information for which the honourable senator was asking. The Minister for External A Hu iri has provided the following answer: 
The circumstances of the Government's decisions to send to the Republic of Vietnam, at the invitation of the Government of that country, a group of Australian military instructors in 1962 and a combat force of an infantry battalion in 1965 were set out in statement, made respectively on 24th May 1962, by the then Minister for Defence,  Mr Athol  Townley, and un 29th April 1965 by the then Prime Minister,  S'ir Robert  Menzies. The hitler was made in the House of Representatives: the text of Die statement issued by  Mr Townley  is as follows: ['The Minister for Defence, the  Hon.  Athol Townley, announced today thai at the invitation of the Government of (he Republic of Vietnam, Australia was sending: a group, of military instructors to that country.] 

 Mr Townley said that there is today in Vietnam an urgent problem of communist infiltration and insurgency which is fomented, directed and supported from North Vietnam. Australia has already given some assistance to the Government of South Vietnam to meeting this threat by providing communications equipment, barbed wire and other materials fur village defence, and has promised more aid of this nature. 
The need has now emerged for military training assistance, particularly in the field of jungle warfare, in which Australian forces had particularly Valuable experience. Up to some 30 Australian Army personnel will oe sent to provide instruction in jungle warfare, village defence and other related activities such as engineering and signals.  Colonel F.  P. Serong, formerly Commandant of the Jungle Training Centre at Canungra, would shortly visit Saigon lu ascertain on the spot the most effective way in which the Australian instructors could be lined into the defensive measures against the communist activities. Mr 'townley emphasised that Australia was not providing combat forces, noi- had she been asked by the Government of Vietnam io provide such forces.) The role of the Australian Army Instructors would be to assist in the training of the people of Vietnam and so help them to defeat the Vietcong communist-,, whose aim is to take over that country by organised terrorism. 

 Mr Townley stated thai  H  the Communists were to achieve their aims in Vietnam this would gravely affect the security  of  the whole South East Asian area and ultimately  of  Australia itself. The Australian Government's response  to  the invitation  to  assist Vietnam, which is  a  Protocol State under the SEATO Treaty, was in accordance with Australia's obligations under that Treaty.' 
As  to  the tabling  of  the document  or  documents involved, there is  a  well established principle in these matters that communications between Governments are confidential to the Governments concerned. The Government does not believe it is appropriate to depart from that principle in this case. 
VIETNAM 

 Mr BEAZLEY ; I desireto ask the Prime Minister a question which I asked the Acting Prime Minister yesterday. I asked whether the text of the request of the South Vietnamese Government to the Government of Australia could be published. If it cannot be published could the right honourable gentleman indicate what general principles underlie its non-publication? 

 Mr HAROLD HOLT; I did see the published report of the question that has been asked by the honourable gentleman. 
I have no wish to withhold from the House information which would be of assistance to it. but there is a very well established principle in these matters. I have checked on the detail of this and I can say to the honourable gentleman the communications between governments on this, as on other matters of government business, are confidential to the two governments. I can assure him that our military assistance has always been provided in response to official requests and we have always given the fullest publicity to our actions in this field consistent with the confidential character of the communications and the nature of the subject. He will be aware, because he studies these things closely - as I think those members of the Parliament who have had ministerial experience will certainly be aware - that it is the practice rather than the exception for a good deal of prior diplomatic activity to go on between the two Governments concerned before a formal request is presented. Finally, the matter has come to us in the shape of  a  formal request from the Government concerned. There is nothing particularly mysterious about the language and nothing of any significance that I am attempting toconceal, but there is an established practice in these matters and I do not feel it proper to depart from it. 

 Mr Whitlam ; Was it inthe same terms as that which  Mr Holyoake  received and published? 

 Mr HAROLD HOLT; I cannot answer for the practices of other governments. This is the practice that has been followed by governments from both sides of this House in our relations with other governments, and I believe we secure information on a wider and more frank basis because it is recognised that this is the way in which Australia treats the confidential communications it receives from other governments. I do not knowthe circumstances in  Mr Holyoake's  case. The practice may differ there. 1 do not suggest that a government in South Vietnam thinks up a particular figure; there is a  general request to us to the effect that it would like further military assistance if we can give it. We look at the practicability of meeting this request and we indicate the sort of assistance that we can give. Then a formal request for that sort of assistance follows. That is the way in which this kind of thing is normally done in practice. 
To those honourable senators who are arguing for assistance for youngsters who are returning from Vietnam to enable them to obtain war service land settlement assistance, these questions and answers supply the complete picture and will save themthe need to make research. 
I emphasise that the terms of the amendment are clear-cut. They do not suggest that the Bill will be delayed. They do not suggest that we are going to prevent anyone from getting assistance, measly though it will be. from the $4,500,000. When the Budget is introduced we will find that the Government can provide$100m to send kids to Vietnam, yet it can find only $4,500,000 for war service land settlement from which none of them will benefit. The Government, in its wisdom, should do all in its power in framing the Budget to see that these youngsters get some justice. The question of war service land settlement is of sufficient magnitude to warrant a proper investigation. We have asked that it be referred to one of the newly appointed standing committees so that a proper investigation, in appropriate circumstances, can be carried out to see whether justice can be granted in this field. 
[6.26 a.m.] - The motion that was placed on the notice paper by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  has been the cause of considerable discussion in the Government parties. I feel bound to say that, having indicated that we would bring the motion on for debate - that was the undertaking that I gave some time ago - we had a meeting of the Government parties several days ago now. At that stage we had the advantage of having the notice of motion and also a view expressed by the Australian Democratic Labor Party on what it proposed to move. The Leader of the Opposition has significantly reconstructed his motion and the amendment moved by  Senator Byrne  contains some variations from what we understood to be his Party's original proposal. 
The view expressed by the Government parties; - I want to make it quite clear that it echoed the expressed sentiment of the Leader of the Opposition - was that we do not wish to create a situation that will deter in any way the setting up of the committees so that they will not be in operation when we come back for the Budget session. But we had grave concern in relation to the proposal to put a Minister and the Leader of the Opposition on the committees. We were equally concerned wilh the lack of a proposal to p- it the Leader of the Democratic Labor Party on the committees. We came to the overall judgment that to have Ministers or leaders on the committees at all would tend to inhibit the very concept of the committees. We felt unanimously that the best thing would be for the committees not to have senators on them actually as Ministers or leaders. In the event, the proposal has not been further floated: so we do not need to argue about it any more. 
The motion contains a whole series of machinery proposals to which I do not propose to make reference either. I believe that we arc on common ground that they are designed to make the committees work effectively. I agree with the proposal about special provision being made for committee sittings during sittings of the Senate. All the statutory committees require a resolution of the Parliament to enable them to sit during sittings of the Parliament, except where the necessary provision is inherent in their establishment. I think there is such a provision in respect of the Foreign Affairs Committee. I believe that in regard to the actual number of committees we will have and our capacity to find senators for them - we must remember that in the Senate the numbers game will be involved - it is essen- tial that we must see to it thai the committee system does not destroy the fundamental function that we have in this chamber. 1 agree that some special safeguards need to be provided. Not a great deal of difference exists between the two resolutions. Firstly, the position of the second non-government party, as it is expressed, is i think important. It is equally important that the Leader of the Australian Democratic Labor Party should have responsibility, in the same way as the Leader of the Government and the Leader of the Opposition have, in relation to appointments to committees. 

Yes, we have done that. I believe that, as  Senator Byrne  has suggested,  Senator Murphy's  motion could be construed as meaning in a sense that if an escalation occurred in the number of senators on a committee the subsequent nominees would have special reference from either the Leader of the Government or the Leader of the Opposition. It is an argument that I think should be answered. No doubt,  Senator Murphy  will respond to that argument when he exercises his right of reply. 1 refer to this because the Government Parties have expressed the view that they would support the proposals of the Australian Democratic Labor Party. 
The decision could be marginal in relation to the one paragraph regarding which difference may arise. I refer to the paragraph which relates to the representation of the minority parties. In our judgment, no doubt can exist that the Australian Democratic Labor Party should not be required to have any responsibility outside the members of its own Party. The responsibility of that Party is to its members. Where the question of an independent senator or another minortiy group, if honourable senators wish to express it that way, is involved, the decision should not be tied in any way at all to the Australian Democratic Labor Party but a provision should be written into the motion to protect the interests of the minority group. 
To the extent therefore that the amendment moved by  Senator Byrne  in our view tends to do that more than the proposal moved by the Leader of the Opposition, I would indicate that, whilst there may be some personal expression from the Government level, the Government Parties would tend to support the amendment moved by the Australian Democratic Labor Party. I hope that we can resolve this matter. I hope that we do not inhibit the right of anybody who has a point of view to deal with that point of view. I know at least one honourable senator who does wish to present a point of view. When that is done, 1 think we should resolve the question and that we should see to it that, when the Senate meets again, the Committee system will be ready to commence functioning immediately. 
lt is with deep regret that I have to announce formally to the Senate the death in Melbourne on 31st July of  Sir Wilfrid  Selwyn Kent Hughes, K.B.E., M.V.O., M.C., E.D., the honourable member for Chisholm.  Sir Wilfrid  had represented the Chisholm electorate since 1949.  His  political career began in his home state of Victoria when he was elected to the Legislative Assembly as the honourable member for Kew in 1927. He held that seat until his resignation in 1949 to contest the Federal election. During his period in the Victorian Parliament  Sir Wilfrid  held a variety of ministerial postings. He was Honourable Minister from 19th May 1932 to 25th July 1934, and Minister of Transport, Minister of Labour and Vice  President  of the Board of Land and Works from 25th July 1934 to 2nd April 1935. 
He was Deputy Premier from 20th March to 2nd April 1935, Minister of Transport and Vice President of the Board of Land and Works from 20th November 1947 to 29th October 1949, and Minister of Public Instruction from 20th November 1947 to 7th December 1948. He was Minister in charge of Electrical Undertakings from 7th December 1948 to 29th October 1 949 and Deputy Premier from 3rd December 1948 to 29th October 1949. 

 Sir Wilfrid was elected to the House of Representatives by the electorate of Chisholm in the general elections of 1949, 1951, 1954, 1955, 1958, 1961, 1963, 1966 and 1969. He was a member of the Privileges Committee from 1st March 1950 to 19th March 1951, and Minister for the Interior and Minister for Works and Housing from 11th May 1951 to 1 1th January 1956. He was Commissioner representing the Commonwealth River Murray Commission from May 1951 to May 1956.  Sir Wilfrid  inspected Australian war graves in the Pacific and South East Asian areas from January to March 1955. He was a member of the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Foreign Affairs from 1st March 1956 to 2nd November 1961, being  Chairman  from 20th March 1956, and he represented the Austraiian Government at the inauguration of the Chinese  President  at Taiwan in 1966. 

 Sir Wilfrid had a distinguished military record. He enlisted in the Australian Imperial Force on 7th August 1914 and embarked on 18th October 1914. He served in the 7th Battalion of the 3rd Australian Light Horse Brigade Headquarters and the Australian Mounted Division. He was awarded the Military Cross in 1916 and mentioned in despatches four times. He was discharged in England with the rank of major on 30th January 1920.  Sir Wilfrid  enlisted in the 2nd Australian Imperial Force on 1st July 1940 from the Citizen Military Forces with the rank of  Major and  was appointed Lieutenant-Colonel in 1941. He served with Administration Headquarters and with 8th Division Headquarters in Malaya, and was appointed  Colonel in  1942. He was taken prisoner of war by the Japanese following the fall of Singapore and was recovered at Mukden on 17th August 1945. He returned to Australia on 15th 
October 1945, was awarded the Order of the British Empire and the Efficiency Decoration in 1946, and was mentioned in despatches. 

 Sir Wilfrid was certainly a man who earned the title of Great Australian.  His  death ended an illustrious career dedicated to the service of his country.  His  life and the long span of his varied achievements was a copybook example to Australian youth. In his teenage,  Sir Wilfrid  starred in scholastic pursuits and sport. In 1914 he won a Rhodes Scholarship for Victoria. He captained the Oxford ski team. In 1920 he represented Australia as a hurdler at the Olympic Games.  His  interest in the Olympics continued throughout his life and was climaxed when he was appointed  Chairman  of the Organising Committee for the 1956 Olympic Games in Melbourne. In two World Wars he served with distinction. In World War I he served as a young Light Horse officer and in World War II he served as a senior staff officer of the Eighth Australian Division in Malaya. 1 would also like to add some personal remarks about  Sir Wilfrid's  career as a parliamentarian and as a citizen of Australia.  Senator Branson  and myself perhaps had a closer association with the late  Sir Wilfrid  Kent Hughes than most other honourable senator because we were in military service with him. I think I speak for all when I say that he was a man of strong views and a man who held very strongly to his views. He was a very humane man; he had a human touch. On occasions when members or senators were sick, going overseas or had some problems, it was natural for him to contact them and say something kindly to them. In our Parliament, where strong views are held, he showed great humanity. I think we all came to respect and appreciate that in  Sir Wilfrid.  I know that we all in this Parliament feel that Australia has lost a very wonderful Australian and a man who had a great contribution to make in the interests of his country. I move: 
That the Senate expresses its deep regret at the death of  Sir Wilfrid  Selwyn Kent Hughes. K..B.E., M.V.O., M.C., E.D., M.P., a member of the House of Representatives for the Division of Chisholm and a former Minister of [he Crown, places on record its appreciation of his long and meritorious public service and tenders its sincere sympathy to his widow and family in their bereavement. 

I give notice that at the next sitting of the Senate I shall move: 
That, with reference to the appointment of the 5 Estimates Committees A, B, C, D and E agreed to by the Senate on 11th June 1970. the Senate resolves - 
Each Committee shall consist of 8 Senators, 4 to be appointed by the Leader of the Government in the Senate, 3 to be appointed by the Leader of the Opposition the Senate, one to be appointed by the Leader of the Australian Democratic Labor Partyto each of 4 of the said Committees, and one to be appointed by any minority group or groups, or Independent or Independents to one of the said Committees. 
The particular Committees in respect of which the Australian Democratic Labor Party, or any minority group or groups or Independent or Independents make appointments shall be determined by agreement between the Australian Democratic Labor Party and any minority group or groups or Independent or Independents and, in the absence of agreement duly notified to the  President,  the question as to the representation on any particular committee as between the Australian Democratic Labor Party and the minority group or groups, or Independent or Independents shall be determined by the Senate. 
Each Committee may proceed to the dispatch of business notwithstanding that all members have not been appointed and notwithstanding any vacancy. 
A Committee shall not meet while the Senate is actually sitting, unless by special order of the Senate. 
The foregoing provisions of thisresolution, so far as they are inconsistent with the Standing Orders, shall have effect notwithstanding anything contained in the Standing Orders. 
I give notice that at the next sitting of the Senate I shall move: 
That, with reference to the appointment of the 7 Standing Committees agreed to by the Senate on 11th June 1970, the Senate resolves: 
The actual establishment of the total number of Committees, including the appointment of senators to the various Committees, shall be done over a period of not less than 12 months and not before two of the said Committees selected by the Senate for first establishment have actually operated and a report of the operation of these Committees has been presented to the Senate by the  President. 
The two such Committees selected for first establishment shall be - The Standing Committee on Health and Welfare: and the Standing Committee on Primary and Secondary Industry and Trade. 
A report shall be presented to the Senate by the  President  not later than the commencement of the first session of 1971 as to the operation of the Standing Committees and their administration, accommodation and staff requirements. 
Each Standing Committee shall consist of 8 senators, 4 to be appointed by the Leader of the Government in the Senate, 3 to be appointed by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate, I to be appointed by the Leader of the Australian Democratic Labor Party to each of 6 of the said Committees, and I to be appointed by any minority group or groups or Independent or Independents to one of the said committees. 
The particular Standing Committees in respect of which the Australian Democratic Labor Party, or any minority group or group or Independent or Independents mate appointments shall be determined by agreement between the Australian Demo- ticic Labor Party and any minority group or groups or Independent or Independents and. in the absence of agreement duly notified to the  President,  the question as to the representation on any particular standing committee as between the Australian Democratic Labor Parly and the minority group or groups or Independent or Independents shall be determined by the Senate. 
A Standing Committee may proceed to the dispatch of business notwithstanding that all members have not been appointed and notwithstanding any vacancy. 
Each Standing Committee shall elect a Government member as Chairman. 
The  Chairman  may fromtime to time appoint a member of the Committee to be  Deputy Chairman  and the member so appointed shall act as  Chairman  of the Committee at any time when there is no  Chairman  or the  Chairman  is not present at a meeting of the Committee. 
In the event of an equality of voting, the  Chairman,  or the  Deputy Chairman  when acting as  Chairman,  shall have a casting vote. 
A Standing Committee shall not meet while the Senate is actually sitting, unless by special order of the Senate. 
Unless it be otherwise specially provided by the Standing Orders, the reference of a matter to a Standing Committee shall be on motion after notice. Such notice of motion may be given - 
in the usual manner when notices are given at the beginning of the business of the day; or 
at any other time by a senator - 
stating its terms to the Senate, when other business is not before the Chair; or 
delivering a copy to the  Clerk,  who shall report it to the Senate at the first opportunity. 
Any such notice of motion shall be placed on the notice paper for the next sitting day as 'Business of the Senate' and, as such, shall take precedence of Government and general business set down for that day. 
The foregoing provisions of this resolution, so far as they are inconsistent with the Standing Orders, shall have effect notwithstanding any thing contained in the Standing Orders. 
[8.10] -I present the following papers: 
Civil Works Programme 1970-71. 
Commonwealth Payments to or for the States, 1970-71. 
Estimates of Receiptsand Summary of Estimated Expenditure for the year ending 30 June 1971. 
Expenditure - 
Particulars of proposed Expenditure for the Service of the year ending 30 June 1971. 
Particulars of Proposed Provision for Certain Expenditure in respect of the year ending 30 June 1971. 
Government Securities on Issue at 30 June 1970. 
Commonwealth Income Tax Statistics for Income year 1967-68. 
National Income and Expenditure, 1969-70.  and move: 
That the Senate take note of the papers. 
Tonight the Treasurer is delivering in another place his Budget Speech for 1970-71. It is my privilege to outline to the Senate the Budget proposals of the Government. 
By these proposals the Government seeks: - to provide for a large increase in essential expenditures, especially on payments to the States, welfare, development and assistance to industry, including emergency relief for woolgrowers hard hit by drought and low prices; - to make reductions in personal income taxation, especially on lower and middle income earners, estimated to have a value to the taxpayers concerned of $289m in a full financial year and $228m in 1970-71; we thereby make good - indeed more than make good - our undertaking to give substantial income tax relief to this large body of people; - notwithstanding these large commitments, to produce a responsible budget, a balanced budget, a budget shaped to the requirements of an economy that is dynamic and fast-growing - but an economy still threatened by disruptive inflation. 
In 1969-70 the economy again achieved a high rate of growth. Gross national product at constant prices increased by about 5.5% - this despite the trials and setbacks of rural industry. The number of wage and salary earners increased by no less than 4% . Even though wool prices fell sharply, there was a remarkable increase of 24% in the total value of exports. But the strong lift in activity that lay behind these achievements brought developing stresses. By March, notwithstanding the big inflow of migrants and the entry of more and more married women into the work-force, the labour situation had become very tight, with job vacancies well above the number of registered applicants for work. 
The surge in demand for labour reflected a quickening in demand generally. Consumer spending, which increased by 7.2% in 1968-69, moved up by 9.6% in 1969-70. All branches of private fixed capital expenditure - that is to say, on dwellings, other forms of building and construction, plant and equipment - rose stronglyuntil the final quarter of the year when, through tightening of finance, there was a moderate check to housing starts. Public authority spending also rose strongly throughout the year. 
In brief, notably though output was increasing, demand was increasing faster. These are typically the conditions in which inflation breeds. Signs that it was active became more evident as the year went on. Cost and price increases gathered pace. Average weekly earnings rose by about 8% in 1969-70. The consumer price index rose at an accelerating rate throughout the year, reaching an annual rate of growth above 5% in the June quarter. 
The end-year downswing in liquidity, reinforced as it was by sharp increases in interest rates, produced a marked monetary tightening, although its severity was moderated to some extent by a revival of capital inflow. The most evident effect it had on the demand situation was seen in housing activity; but there was also some general easing of the labour market. Even so, at the end of June the number of registered applicants for jobs did not exceed 1 % of the work-force. 
The current year thus began with the economy pretty much at full stretch. Prospects for growth are very good provided the call on resources is kept within reason. Certainly, it is entirely possible that the year will see real gross national product increase again by 5.5% or thereabouts. With immigration flowing strongly, there should be a further large addition - more than 3% - to the work-force. The farm outlook is not encouraging but we can reasonably expect a good rise in non-farm productivity. Our external outlook is promising - in particular, there should be a further large rise in exports. Meanwhile, the fact that Bass Strait oil is coming on stream in a big way will hold down imports quite considerably. Capital inflow has been fairly strong lately though, of course, we cannot be sure of its trend through the year. 
It is the demand side that will bear watching. Consumer spending is currently very buoyant and that situation seems likely to continue. Private spending on plant and equipment and non-residential building and construction seems set for continued strong growth - there is a wealth of investment opportunities, and such forward indicators as we have clearly suggest this. The earlier strong upward trend in dwelling construction has been checked for the time being but an upturn there is likely before long. 
In framing the Budget, we have had to assess most carefully its potential influence on the economy. The Commonwealth's expenditures, directly or indirectly, add to demand and we have had to scrutinise them carefully from that standpoint. All the increases we propose are in the high priority class. We have also taken as mandatory a sizeable reduction in personal income tax - we propose to meet that obligation squarely and unequivocally. But the increase in disposable incomes that will ensue must tend to stimulate demand. 
Plainly, economic prospects being what they are, the Government must ensure that, in its overall effect, the Budget does not give additional impetus to demand. Accordingly, we have avoided any significant acceleration in the rate of increase in domestic outlays and, as the cornerstone of our policy, we are bringing in a balanced Budget - indeed, one in which total receipts will more than cover total expenditure. As overseas expenditures this year will again greatly exceed overseas receipts, this Budget will produce a considerable surplus of domestic receipts over domestic expenditures. From the standpoint of impact on resources and liquidity that will be all to the good. 
] ask for leave to make a statement on behalf of the Prime Minister dealing with ministerial arrangements. 
by leave - I desire to inform the Senate that with the concurrence of the Presiding Officers -  Mr President  and  Mr Speaker  - it is proposed to display in Kings Hall, Parliament House, for the week from 25th August to 1st September, an Apollo 11 moon rock sample. This sample of moon rock was brought back to earth by the astronauts - Armstrong, Aldrin and Collins - and I am certain will be of great interest to all parliamentarians and visitors to the national Parliament. 
I should inform the Senate that the moon rock sample will also be displayed in Hobart, Melbourne, Adelaide and Perth and is currently being displayed in Brisbane. It was on display at the Geological and Mining Museum in Sydney from Friday, 7th August, for 1 week and attracted tremendous interest. 
The Minister for External Affairs has furnished the following reply: 
and (2) Article 1 of the Geneva Agreement on the Cessation of Hostilities in Vietnam of 20th July 1954, provided that forces of the People's Army of Vietnam (Viet Minh) were to regroup north of  a  provisional military demarcation line, fixed in part along the Cua Tung River but generally following the alignment of the 17th parallel of latitude, and that forces of the French Union were to regroup south of this line. Under Article 14, provision was made for two separate civil administrations in the two regrouping zones. The agreement and the Final Declaration issued by the Conference recognised the provisional character of the demarcation line and that it should not be interpreted as constituting a political or territorial boundary. Nevertheless, developments since 1954 have proved unfounded the Conference's 'conviction that the execution of the provisions set out in the present declaration and in the agreement on the cessation of hostilities creates the necessary basis for the achievement in the near future of a political settlement in Vietnam' (paragraph 6 of the Final Declaration). The present reality is that two separate stales exist, and the division has received wide diplomatic recognition on the part of communist as well as non-communist countries. Some 60 countries have recognised South Vietnam, which is also a member of many of the Specialised 
Agencies of the United Nations, of the International Atomic Energy Agency, and of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. North Vietnam has diplomatic relations with more than 20her countries. The United Nations General Assembly has passed resolutions recognising that the Republic of Vietnam is a peace-loving State qualified for membership of the United Nations. Although the Republic's admission was vetoed by the Soviet Union in the Security Council, the U.S.S.R. had itself put forward in the General Assembly in January 1957, a draft resolution for the simultaneous admission of both North and South Vietnam, arguing that, as in Korea, two separate States existed with different political and economic structures. 
At this point of time I do not want to rearrange the business. I propose to do that when we meet tomorrow morning. I should like to make an explanation, by leave, in relation to this matter. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT  Is there any objection? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
It is intended to attempt to take off the business paper certain Government items which have been caught up by effluxion of time and to make a more realistic business paper. Before I do that, I think it would be proper for me to have discussions with the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  and the Leader of the Democratic Labor Party  (Senator Gair).  Tomorrow morning I propose to remove from the business paper some items which, quite clearly, are no longer relevant because certain things have happened since the original ministerial statements were made. 
No. But I certainly will give them to the honourable senator's leader and to  Senator Murphy.  Some honourable senators might have some views on the suggested removal of certain items. Someone might want to speak on them, even if briefly. I am not being arbitrary about it. I simply want to tidy up the business paper by mutual consent. Tomorrow we meet at 11 a.m. After 8 p.m. tomorrow is General Business. If it is the will of the Senate to proceed to General Business after 8 p.m. tomorrow the Government parties and I certainly would have no objection to it. It will be a question of proceeding on the business paper or rearranging it if desired. I think the first one is in the name of  Senator Byrne.  Perhaps he may wish the Senate to consider this matter. On the other hand if it is not thought appropriate to deal with genera] business after 8 p.m. tomorrow the Senate could rise late tomorrow afternoon. It is not proposed that the Senate sit on Friday. 
[10.35]- I move: 
That, with reference to the appointment of the 5 Estimates Committees A, B, C, D and E agreed to by the Senate on 11 June 1970, the Senate resolves - 
Each Committee shall consist of 8 Senators, 4 to be appointed by the Leader of the Government in the Senate, 3 to be appointed by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate, one to be appointed by the Leader of the Australian Democratic Labor Party to each of 4 of the said Committees, and one to be appointed by any minority group or groups or Independent or Independents to one of the said Committees. 
The particular Committees in respect of which the Australian Democratic Labor Party, or any minority group or groups or Independent or Independents make appointments shall be determined by agreement between the Australian Democratic Labor Party and any minority group or groups or Independent or Independents and, in the absence of agreement duly notified to the  President,  the question as to the representation on any particular committee as between the Australian Democratic Labor Party and the minority group or groups, or Independent or Independents shall be determined by the Senate. 
Each Committee may proceed to the dispatch of business notwithstanding that all members have not been appointed and notwithstanding any vacancy. 
A  Committee shall not meet while the Senate is actually sitting, unless by special order of 'he Senate. 
The foregoing provisions of this resolution, so far as they are inconsistent with the Standing Orders, shall have effect notwithstanding anything contained in the Standing Orders. 
This is a machinery motion following upon a prior resolution of the Senate. I take it there is no need for lengthy debate about the estimates committees. With the very good offices of the Senate staff I have worked out certain proposals relating to meetings of the estimates committees. The Principal Parliamentary Reporter and the Government Printer have said that it would not be possible for more than 3 of these estimates committees to be sitting at any one time unless their staffs were increased. Three committees could be sitting concurrently. A timetable would have to be arranged so that when 1 committee cut out another could sit. What I have worked out has no bearing on the notice of motion 1 have moved, which is merely a mechanical proposal. The timetable has been carefully examined in relation to possible hours of sitting. I propose later to circulate copies of these proposed hours to party leaders. This timetable is not arbitrary and may be subject to criticism and alteration. We will be confronted with this problem of time not only with these committees but also with the standing committees. The Senate will be faced with a critical period during which we will see how these procedures will work. The Government parties believe they will work and I believe they will work. 1 feel sure that the Opposition will give every support to see that the committees function. 
The Senate is breaking into a new field. A high degree of co-operation and assistance will be required in order to iron out any difficulties that may confront us. At this point of time I do not want to speak at great length. I believe that every honourable senator understands the principle behind the formation of estimates committees. The idea is to do the work in the committee room in a more relaxed way. The Minister and officers concerned will be able to give information. The proceedings will bc recorded in the daily Hansard and will be open just as they are here in the Senate. I imagine that this system will lend itself to more supplementary questions. In the past when dealing with the estimates honourable senators have asked questions and then have received answers about which they may have wanted to make further inquiries. The workings of the estimates committee will make for an easier obtaining of information. When the committees report back to the Senate perhaps the Estimates debate which will ensue will tend to be concentrated on particular items rather than as has happened in the past when honourable senators have sought information about a series of minor matters. This has taken up time which perhaps could have been used more effectively. The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  and the Leader of the Australian Democratic Labor Party  (Senator Gair)  may wish to make a comment. If anything arises, I will be happy to respond. I believe that these estimates committees need to be put into operation. This is a challenge to us all. I believe that we will meet it and that this will help parliamentary process and the practice of the Senate. 

Yes, three of the  five. 
[10.44]  -  I move: 
That, with reference to the appointment of the 7 Standing Committees agreed to by the Senate on lt June 1970, the Senate resolves: 
The actual establishment of the total number of Committees, including the appointment of senators to the various Committees, shall be done over a period of not less than 12 months and not before two of the said Committees selected by the Senate for first establishment have actually operated and a report of the operation of these Committees has been presented to the Senate by the  President. 
The two such Committees selected for first establishment shall be - The Standing Committee on Health and Welfare; and the Standing Committee on Primary and Secondary Industry and Trade. 
A report shall be presented to the Senate by the  President  not later than the commencement of the first session of 1971 as to the operation of the Standing Committees and their administration, accommodation and staff requirements. 
Each Standing Committee shall consist of 8 senators, 4 to be appointed by the Leader of the Government in the Senate, 3 to be appointed by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate, 1 to be appointed by the Leader of the Australian Democratic Labor Party to each of 6 of the said Committees, and 1 to be appointed by any minority group or groups or Independent or Independents to one of the said Committees. 
The particular Standing Committees in respect of which the Australian Democratic Labor Party, or any minority group or groups or Independents or Independents make appointments shall be determined by agreement between the Australian Democratic Labor Party and any minority group or groups or Independent or Independents and, in the absence of agreement duly notified to the  President,  the question as to the representation on any particular standing committee as between the Australian Democratic Labor Party and the minority group or groups or Independent or Independents shall be determined by the Senate. 
A Standing Committee may proceed to the dispatch of business notwithstanding that all members have not bees appointed and notwithstanding any vacancy. 
Each Standing Committee shall elect a Government member as Chairman. 
The  Chairman  may from time to time appoint a member of the Committee to be  Deputy Chairman  and the member so appointed shall act as  Chairman  of the Committee at any time when there is no  Chairman  or the  Chairman  is not present at a meeting of the Committee. 
In the event of an equality of voting, the  Chairman,  or the  Deputy Chairman  when acting as  Chairman,  shall have a casting vote. (10; A Standing Committee shall not meet while the Senate is actually sitting, unless by special order of the Senate. 
Unless it be otherwise specially provided by the Standing Orders, the reference of a matter to a Standing Committee shall be on motion after notice. Such notice of motion may be given - 
in the usual manner when notices are given at the beginning of the business of the day; or 
at any other time by a senator - 
stating its terms to the Senate, when other business is not before the Chair; or 
delivering a copy to the  Clerk,  who shall report it to the Senate at the first opportunity. 
Any such notice of motion shall be placed on the notice paper for the next sitting day as 'Business of the Senate' and, as such, shall take precedence of Government and general business set down for that day. 
The foregoing provisions of this resolution, so far as they are inconsistent with the Standing Orders, shall have effect notwithstanding anything contained in the Standing Orders. 
It will be recalled that the circumstances in the case of the standing committees were rather different from those in the case of the estimates committees. Originally we had  2  motions for the appointment of standing committees. The motion in the name of  Senator Murphy  was carried by the Senate. Subsequently he moved a procedural or consequential motion to which  Senator Byrne  moved an amendment. Finally, divisions were taken and both  Senator Murphy's  motion and  Senator Byrne's  amendment failed to pass, the votes being  23  all in each case. So, we are in a situation in which no consequential motion has been passed or moved. 
Therefore, I have presumed to prepare a consequential motion and to move it tonight in the hope that we will be able to resolve the matter and proceed to the establishment of standing committees. This again will be an historic departure from the traditional procedures of the Senate. It is designed to give the Senate a certain role in relation to the handling of matters in committee. It is proper to say that we have had quite a number of Senate select committees which have done good work. In addition to our statutory committees we have a number of Senate select committees currently operating. Because of this and having regard to our capacity to make this new technique function successfully and to the vital need to get it off the ground in such a way that it is a success and does not fail because we have not done enough hard work in the preparation of it, the motion is framed in the way it is. Somebody once said that time spent in reconnaissance was time well spent. We have spent a lot of time in reconnaissance on this matter. 
For those reasons I have moved, in paragraph  (1)  of the motion, that the actual establishment of the total number 3f committees, including the appointment of senators to the various committees, be done over a period of not less than  12  months, but that initially the Senate appoint only  2  of the committees. I have chosen  2  of the  7  committees that were nominated originally in  Senator Murphy's  motion. Paragraph  (2)  of my motion therefore reads: 
The two such Committees selected for first establishment shall be - the Standing Committee on Health and Welfare; and the Standing Committee on Primary and Secondary Industry and Trade. 
Then, those  2  committees, having been established by procedures much the same as those for the estimates committees in relation to members and the responsibility of leaders to appoint them, will report to the  President  who in turn will report to the Senate by the commencement of the  1971  parliamentary sittings as to their operation. It is presumed that the other  5  committees would then be appointed, and away we would go on the work of thenation in the committee sense. It is proper to say that by doing it this way we have a. chance to move into this procedure with a. degree of caution that we would not be able to exercise if we established all  7  committees immediately or at the one time. 
The other paragraphs of the motion areprocedural, although perhaps I should, point out that there are provisions to deal. with 2 aspects of the operation of standing committees. When we are dealing with a Bill and it is felt, in the wisdom of the Senate, that it should be referred to one of the standing committees, that will be done under standing order 1 96a, which is already in our Standing Orders. So there is no difficulty about that. But when the matter to be referred to a standing committee is not a Bill - it may be a ministerial statement, a document that has been tabled or some other piece of information which has been published and which the Senate wants to refer to a standing committee - the machinery provided in my motion is for it to be done after notice. Paragraph (11) provides protection in that, notice having been given, the matter must come on and have priority on the next day of sitting, so that it can never be said that the Government or some group in the Senate is seeking to kill a notice of motion simply by not bringing it on. 
There is 1 other point that I feel bound to make clear. Paragraph (11) gives precedence to notices for references to committees. However, if such a motion was not disposed of 2 hours after the time fixed for the meeting of the Semite, the debate would be interrupted under standing order 127. Then the resumption of the debate would not have precedence subsequently; it would be an order of the day in the usual way. I know that that tends to weaken what I have said about setting out to put in a safety valve. I have discovered that because of standing order 127 the safety valve perhaps is not as strong as it should be. It refers to a period of 2 hours from the time fixed for the meeting of the Senate. If question time went for an hour and a half, we would be in difficulty. But I am perfectly willing to find some form of words that will knock that difficulty out of the way so that the position can be quite clear and positive. 

We could use that method. Acting in good faith, I want to make it clear that it is not intended that that provision should be allowed to stand in the way. We would want to have it quite clearly written into the procedure, that if an honourable senator gives notice that tomorrow he will move that something should be referred to a committee, that resolution will in fact be brought on and dealt with in the normal way. I know that  Senator Murphy  has a view on this matter and perhaps  Senator Byrne,  who has been acting on behalf of his Leader in this matter, may want to say something. I suggest that, even if we were to sit a little past 11 o'clock in order to finalise this matter, it would be better to dispose of it tonight. That is all I will say at this point. I will wait to see what is said in the debate. 
[4.16]  -  I move: 
That  the  Senate do now adjourn. 
During the debate this afternoon, by misadventure and through inadvertence, I quoted from the transcript of evidence of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee. I have been informed that ( committed a technical breach by doing so. In the circumstances I think it was natural that it should happen and I have an idea that  Senator Devitt  to some extent inadvertently made the same technical breach. I merely wanted to make that point. 
--by leave - I propose to make a statement relating to the future programming of the Senate. It would be within the knowledge of honourable senators that last night in another place it was resolved to move into a programme of sitting days, a programme which will not take effect until the beginning of October after the House has completed its first series of sittings of  3  weeks. I think it proper that I should say to honourable senators that consequent upon the other House agreeing to a proposal to have a  3-weeks  cycle, made up of  a 2-weeks  work load, including sittings on  a  Friday and Monday, and then a break of one week, we in the Senate would need to give consideration to this question. 
I propose to have a conference with the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  and the Leader of the Australian Democratic Labor Party  (Senator Gair)  to see whether we can get some ideas on how we should react to this programme and then I propose to bring the matter on early next week for discussion by the Senate. When the matter comes before the Senate for discussion I suggest that any proposals relating to our programme should be considered on a non-Party basis and decided by an open vote. It may well be that having regard to what is proposed by the other place commencing in October we would need to take some action. I shall have a conference with Senators Murphy and Gair and we will all confer with members of our parties so that next week we can come into this place to debate the matter and arrive at some finality. I also want to say that concurrently with that I think we in the Senate in our own right need to be looking at the question of our Standing Orders not only in relation to hours of sitting but in relation to hours of debate. 

We should also be looking at the length of speeches. We face the extraordinary situation with debate on the Budget proposals 

On the Address-in-Reply a senator may speak for 1 hour and get a1 hour extension or an unlimited extension. This may have been good in the early days of federation, but now the tempo of political life and our way of living is such that we do not need to do it. I think we need to look at that. I would like to have a discussion with the leaders of the other parties to see if we can bring this matter on for debate next week and have a free vote on it. 
Yes, I would like to rearrange the business. Whilst I am dealing with the matter I would like to suggest the removal of certain items from the Notice Paper. I move: That Orders of the day Nos 2 and 3 take precedence of Order of the day No. 1. It is not proposed to debate the Budget because that will wait until the Leader of the Opposition in the other place  (Mr Whitlam)  speaks and then the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  traditionally speaks. That will probably be next Wednesday. We therefore would not deal with the Budget until next Wednesday. In suggesting the rearrangement I had in mind that we could this afternoon debate orders of the day Nos 2 and 3 together, although it is questionable that we would get to that stage.  Senator Willesee  secured the adjournment of the debate on those items, each of which concerns Vietnam. I think we could dispose of them together and vote to take note of the papers. They could be then removed from the notice paper simultaneously. If an honourable senator has spoken on one of the matters, he could exercise his right to speak on the other, so that there would be no difficulties with Standing Orders in that respect. If any honourable senator has spoken on each of the papers, that would create a situation, but I do not think that has arisen. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONYes. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI would be happy to do that, because they each concern foreign affairs. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSON (New South Wales - Minister for Supply) - I move: 
That the following orders of the day. Government Business, be discharged from the notice paper: 8 Aboriginal Aged Persons Homes Trust - Ministerial Statement: Adjourned debate on the motion - That the Senate take note of the Statement. 9 Standing Orders Committee - Second Report (Standing Committees): Consideration. 12 Great Barrier Reef - Royal Commissions - Ministerial Statement: Adjourned debate on the motion - That the Senate take note of the Statement. 14 Proposed Suspension of Standing Order 68: Adjourned debate on the motion - That Standing Order 68 be suspended until the termination of the present period of sittings, to enable new Business to be commenced after half-past ten o'clock at night. 15 Precedence to Government Business: Adjourned debate on the motion - That, from 21 May until the end of the present period of sittings, Government Business take precedence of General Business after 8 p.m. on Thursdays. 
I have suggested the removal of order of the day No. 8 because it is simply related to the appointment of the Aboriginal Aged Persons Homes Trust. As the Trust has been appointed and is now operating I do not see the logic of debating the ministerial statement. 
1 have no purpose other than to tidy up the notice paper. If somebody wishes to speak on that matter we will simply leave it on the notice paper. I have suggested the removal of order of the day No. 9 because it has been overtaken by events. Resolutions have been carried to set up the Standing Orders Committee and this item concerns the related machinery. Order of the day No. 12 can be removed. 1 suggest, because it relates to the Royal Commission on the Barrier Reef which in fact has been set up and is functioning. Orders of the day Nos 14 and 15 relate to Government Business taking precedence after certain hours at night. These items involve certain procedures that the Government normally seeks to introduce in the closing stages of a session. 1 see no justification for leaving them on the notice paper. If the Government feels that it is necessary to raise this matter on future occasions it will take the appropriate action. These items concern procedures which historically have been invoked towards the end of sessions. 
[2.32] - I do not want to prolong this debate because it is desirable that we should reach a decision today. If we do not reach a decision today it will be equivalent to voting in the affirmative for the disallowance of the regulation because today is the last day on which we can consider it. I indicate at the very outset that the Government does not support the move for the disallowance of the regulation. Anything I say, I hope, will be directed towards pointing out why this proposed disallowance of the regulation should not succeed. I agree with  Senator Devitt  that because of a set of circumstances we have arrived at a point where this is the last day for consideration of the matter. This is not altogether the responsibility of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee. I accept some responsibility for not asking the Committee to bring this matter on for debate earlier. 
We have had a break in the sessions. The motion for the disallowance of the regulation was on the business paper of the Senate of 9th April 1970 and the adjournment was taken. There has been a series of adjournments of the debate. The Senate resumed after the recess with 3 days in which to discuss this motion. Now we come to the very last day on which it can be discussed, lt is unfortunate that we have come to the point where we have to reach a decision today. Whether we like it or nol, whatever we do there will be a decision today.  Senator Devitt  who led in the debate talked about the unanimity of the Committee's decision. I notice, for instance, that at the sitting of the Committee in June in fact only 4 members of the Committee were present - not the 7 members who constitute the Committee. The  Chairman  was not present. 
No, but J am pointing out that although  Senator Devitt  talks about unanimity, the  Chairman  of the Committee was not present at the meeting on 2nd June.  Senator Cavanagh  and  Senator Wheeldon  also were not present. 
I know. Please do not try to muddy the waters because 1 am going to say what I have to say, regardless of whether or not we lift at 5 o'clock. When  Senator Devitt  says that there was complete unanimity in the Committee, it is proper and fair for me to make the very relevant point that on the day on which the Committee took evidence on 2nd June, the  Chairman, Senator Cavanagh  and  Senator Wheeldon  were not present.  Senator Devitt  went on to point out- 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONIt is obvious that they would be at subsequent meetings and the fact that the honourable senator makes that remark shows that he is a little on the defensive. But the truth of the matter is that  Senator Devitt  pointed out that they did in fact have evidence before them from members of the Public Service Board. He gave the names of those members who were present. What he did not go on to say when he was telling his story today was that there was in fact an understanding - and I propose to read his very words from the transcript in a moment - that the officers would in fact be brought back. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONIt now becomes apparent by way of interjection that they were not required. 
Yes. lt is a pity they were not required because I am about to demonstrate to the honourable senator the extraordinary position he has now put himself in in relation to this disallowance. But just to put it on the record, what  Senator Devitt  said - of course, he did not mention it this morning - at the point where the witnesses withdrew, was: 
Gentlemen, on behalf of the Committee  1  express our very sincere thanks for the comprehensive way in which you have presented the detail and  documentation  to us. It will help us quite considerably in our further consideration of this question. Perhaps wc should suspend further consideration of statutory rule 42 at this stage. In due course the Secretary of th: Committee will be in touch with you again, and I hope that we can have your services again for further clarification. 
I think it would have been more appropriate in the interests of everybody to have that fact established. 1 feel bound to say, of course, that  Senator Wheeldon  was not there on that occasion and neither was  Senator Cavanagh.  Had they known that those words were spoken and what was going to happen as a result, perhaps they would not have been at a subsequent meeting - which obviously they were at - so ready to add their support to the recommendation. 
I want to put some historical matters on the record and I then want to go back, if I may, to some matters at issue and the circumstances in which we find ourselves in relation to this matter. I think I should stick to the script I have before me because I think that it would be the quickest way to deal with the matter. 
Statutory Rules 1970 No. 42 were made by the Public Service Board on 27th February 1970. They were approved by the Governor-General on 20th March 1970 and came into force on that date. The effect of the Rules was to revise regulation 112 of the Public Service Regulations, in relation to the conditions for transfer - including transfer on promotion - to the third division, that is to say, the movement into the third division of permanent officers of the fourth division of the Commonwealth Service. Pre-existing regulation 112, made in 1955, itself contained substantial discretions for exercise by the Board. That is a point it might be appropriate to remember. 
The explanatory statement circulated in relation to Statutory Rules 1970 No. 42 included the following comments: 
Thi basic approach in the revised regulation is designed to achieve a harmony between the expression of the qualification provisions of regulation 112 and those of the Public Service Act relating to appointment of new recruits to the third division. 
The revised regulation also taker, account of the following main points: 
As a result of changes in secondary education systems of various States, certain qualifications specified in the existing regulation are out of date. In the appointment provisions of the Public Service Act, educational qualifications are described in broad terms and this approach has been adopted in the revised regulation. 
The existing regulation contains references to some designations which are now obsolete. The revised regulation, like the appointment provisions of the Act, avoids references to a variety of designations. 
This harmony was particularly with section 35 of the Public Service Act, which provides for the general educational qualifications for appointment to the Third Division of persons from outside the Service; allowing for minor drafting points, its provisions are identical with those of regulation 112(1). Appointments constitute 90% of the third division intake and transfers and promotions 10%. There are more than 50,000 third division staff spread over more than 1,000 designations. So we are dealing with quite a considerable number of people whose rights and privileges would be, under this disallowance, very much circumscribed. When section 35 was enacted in 1960, following the Boyer Committee of Inquiry into Public Service Recruitment, the then Prime Minister said in his second. reading speech: 
Appointment to the Public Service will remain in the hands of the Public Service Board, as an independent authority and within the principle of open competition . . . The standards for appointment will be set by the Board from time to time and notified in the 'Commonwealth Gazette'. The  Public  Service Board will retain authority to conduct its own examinations or to use the standards of education authorities and provision will be retained for promotion within the service so that the most junior officers will have the whole field of the Public Service open to them, provided they are able to meet the standards which are set for promotion within a division or, of course, advancement from one division to another. 
The Prime Minister went on to say: 
The Government has adopted the Boyer Committee recommendation that the leaving certificate standard should be the firm minimum requirement for entry to the third division of the Public Service.  and added - 
It would be difficult to bring down legislation owing to the need to take account of the variation in educational standards as between the Slates, and, as was pointed out to mc by a colleague recently, as between one country and another, because there may be some people here who had the preliminary education in another country. Hence, the Government feels that it would be preferable for the Public Service Board to give effect to this recommendation by administrative action. 
Having regard to our migration programme over the last 2 decades I am sure the significance of that comment is very real. The Prime Minister continued: 
The legislation therefore leaves it to the board to determine the standards of entry, but it is the clear intention that an examination at the level and standard of the New South Wales leaving certificate will be the firm minimum standard for entry to the third division of the Service, with equivalent examinations in other Stales - for example, the senior public in Queensland. This minimum standard will apply both on first appointment to the third division and on transfer from the fourth to the third division. . . 
This basic policy continues to be followed by the Board in relation to appointments, transfers and promotions to the third division subject, of course, to the need for meeting specialist qualification require ments for certain positions. The discretions in regulation 112 are also in harmony with other Public Service Board discretions in relation to educational qualifications already embodied in the Public Service Act and Regulations. 
The exercise of a wide variety of discretions by a central personnel agency is a fundamental feature of administration of non-political career public services in Australia and overseas, as recognised, for example, in the Boyer Committee Report and the more recent Fulton Committee Report in Britain. The Board regularly notifies in the Commonwealth Gazette the wide variety of qualifications determined in exercise of its discretions. The basic principle underlying the legislative provisions is one of merit advancement in accordance with uniform qualification standards. Qualification requirements are, in accordance with gazetted conditions, common to all who wish to compete for the position in question. 
Finally, if each and every educational qualification for the various purposes of the Public Service Act and Regulations had to be specifically prescribed by regulation a considerable volume of additional drafting work would be required to cope with the variety of acceptable qualifications in Australia and overseas, which in total are in a state of constant evolution. This would be likely to delay recruitment in some cases. 
If that is the case in relation to the regulations, how much stronger would be the case if in fact as one of the conditions of the move for disallowance it was said that it should be found in the statute. How in fact one could purport to produce this in a statute to me defies comprehension. I will not spend a great amount of time on this because there are other speakers, members of the Committee themselves and others, who want to make a contribution. I have made the point that the witnesses from the Public Service Board had a clear tinderstanding that they were to be recalled, and I have repeated what  Senator Devitt  said as recorded in the. transcript. The report from the Committee, which no doubt is a truncated summary, does not necessarily or satisfactorily present the Board's case. That can be demonstrated at some point if it becomes necessary to do so. In any event, the report is in error. As an example I refer to paragraph 5.4. The Board's documents made it clear that the head of power for regulation 112 is section 97(l)(e). The subject matter is not, as was stated by  Senator Devitt,  suitable for judicial decision. 1 believe that the whole pattern with this regulation has been to take it out of politics and out of the statute and to give authority and a wide discretionary power to the Public Service Board. All that has been done in this instance has been to transfer the discretionary power which appears in the Act in relation to appointments from outside the Service as distinct from appointments from within the Service. A point has been made about what is happening in the education system in Australia. There is a tremendous divergence between States in educational standards and in the description of qualifications. I remind the Senate that qualifications need a description, whether they are embodied in a regulation or in a statute. It would be a very brave man who would write a regulation "and prescribe educational standards without knowing whether within a few months those standards were going to be altered because of the great changes being made to standards of education. It is a while since I went to school, but I do know of the Wyndham report in New South Wales and the changing provisions in relation to the Leaving Certificate and Matriculation. I know that changes are being made in primary education and that a great variety of changes are coming in education at the tertiary level. That is the reason why there is a need for discretionary powers in relation to descriptions of qualifications. 
Let us consider what will happen as from tomorrow morning if the motion to disallow the regulation is carried. I remind the Senate that if we do nothing the regulation will automatically come into being, but a disallowance of the regulation will not revive the old regulation 112. The Government has legal advisers on these matters and their best legal advice - this is important because it rebuts with particularity what  Senator Devitt  said - is that disallowance does not revive the old regulation. I want the Senate to realise the significance of this. If by a vote, of the 
Senate we disallow this regulation there will be no machinery provisions to enable promotions from the Fourth Division to the Third Division until something else happens. I shall come in a moment to the something else which could happen. The Committee, presumably understanding the situation, has deliberately brought in a regulation, for which it seeks approval of the Senate, which will deny promotion from the Fourth Division to the Third Division of a large number of men in the Public Service. 
I shall come in a moment to the question of putting through another regulation. 1 ask the honourable senator not to anticipate what I will say but to wait for me to say it. The honourable senator knows enough about regulations to know what can be clone. However, I am grateful for the interruption because it will demonstrate how much thought has been given to this matter. The position is that if we carry this motion for disallowance or the Senate rises without doing anything, a great mass of people in the Public Service - we hear great speeches in this place from time to time about protecting members of the Public Service by looking after them . . . 
Not so far as I know. They were informed when the regulation was proposed and they did not object to it. But I come back to the point that I was making, that if this motion for disallowance is carried, tomorrow morning anybody in the Public Service who was entitled to promotion and in respect of whom promotion was imminent from the Fourth Division to the Third Division would not be able to get that promotion or the emolument that it attracted until something else happened. I come now to the something else that might happen. 1 remind honourable senators of the provisions of the Acts Interpretation Act which is referred to in 'Australian Senate Practice' where  Mr Odgers  summarises the situation. Section 49 of the Acts Interpretation Act provides:  (1.) Where, in pursuance of the last preceding section, either House of the Parliament disallows any regulation, or any regulation is deemed to have been disallowed, no regulation, being the same in substance as the regulation so disallowed, or deemed to have been disallowed, shall be made within six months after the date of the disallowance, unless - 
in the case of a regulation disallowed by resolution - the resolution has been rescinded by the House of the Parliament by which it was passed, or 
in the case of a regulation deemed to have been disallowed - the House of the Parliament in which notice of the resolution to disallow the regulation was given by resolution approves the making of a regulation the same in substance as the regulation deemed to have been disallowed. (2.) Any regulation made in contravention of this section shall be void and of no effect. 
The effect of that is that although it may be suggested that another regulation can be brought in tomorrow, another regulation in substance the same as the one disallowed cannot be brought in. Therefore a regulation different in substance would have to be introduced. The legal advisers to the Crown say that the mere disallowance of the proposed regulation will not leave the original regulation standing, so there will be a hiatus. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONWhen I say that I have received legal advice it will be understood that my legal advice comes from the Government's legal advisers. It is true that a legal officer is provided for the Regulations and Ordinances Committee and I suppose it is not unusual for lawyers to disagree. 

I am stating the legal advice which was given to the Public Service Board. Obviously that is advice which has come from the legal advisers of the Crown. 

The honourable senator is trying to play with words. 

When the legal advisers of the Crown give advice it is not advice that they seek elsewhere but is advice which comes from their own legal advisers. Their advice is that once a regulation is disallowed the original regulation does not stand in its place. I suggest to the Senate that this proposal for a disallowance of the regulation challenges the discretions which are an essential ingredient in this matter because of the whole variety of changes throughout our education system. The discretions in the old regulation were never under challenge presumably, yet there were wide discretions in that regulation. But the moment that we try to tidy up the regulation to meet contemporary conditions and contemporary schooling procedures there is a motion for a disallowance, the effect of which, if carried, would be to create a hiatus in promotions from the Fourth Division to the Third Division. 

That is the advice that I have been given. Obviously I sought advice because I had to state a case. I have quite clearly in my notes that the best advice that the Crown has is that the disallowance of this regulation would not revive the old regulation. 
My advice is that it could be revived tomorrow. Then the matter would have to run the gauntlet and the Committee would have to decide whether it wanted to look at the old regulation, because the discretions that have been complained about in the old one are to some extent in the new one.  Senator Devitt,  who is the Acting  Chairman  of this Committee, has pointed out - and I do not challenge this fact - that the Regulations and Ordinances Committee has a long history in cases where it is not happy with something of saying that it believes there is too much discretion  in a regulation or that in its judgment a certain power should be found in a statute. But what did the Committee do on this occasion? lt alerted the Senate, lt then interviewed people from the departments, lt indicated as late as yesterday that because there had been an acknowledgment that there was a necessity for something to be done it had deferred its movement for disallowance. That is normal practice. 1 have been here for 16 years and the Committee has been doing it that way for 16 years. In this case the Committee took evidence. The Acting  Chairman  said that he would invite the witnesses to come again and give further evidence, but he did not invite them to come and give that evidence. Now he is moving for the disallowance of this regulation. 

The truth will always stand. Would  Senator Devitt  like me to read again what he said? Perhaps  Senator Murphy  was not here when I read it. I will read it again for his benefit.  Senator Devitt  said: 
Gentlemen, on behalf of the Committee- 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI will read it again whether  Senator Wheeldon  heard it before or not, because it will be on the record for the second time.  Senator Devitt,  the Acting  Chairman,  said: 
Gentlemen, on behalf of the Committee I express our very sincere thanks for the comprehensive way in which you have presented the detailed documentation to us. It will help us quite considerably in our further consideration of this question. Perhaps we should suspend further consideration of Statutory Rule 42 at this stage. 
There is an implication in the suspension of the rule at that stage, is there not? He went on: 
In due course the Secretary of the Committee will be in touch with you again and I hope we can have your services again for further clarification. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI will show the honourable senator. The trouble with him is that he is about 7 laps ahead of himself. I will show what has happened in the past. What happened on this occasion is quite consistent with what the Committee has always done. Had the 
Committee called the witnesses again as had been promised, no doubt it would have reached the same conclusion that it has reached with most other references. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONlt would have been borne home to the Committee that there is a time problem in this, lt may well have been that the Committee would have said: 'We are only trying to get the end result'. We could have given the Committee time in which to make further examination and possibly a compromise could have been reached to draft some new regulation that would have met some of the objections that the Committee made. But that was not done. 
If  Senator Davidson  acted on that assumption 1 suggest that he should not vote for the disallowance this afternoon, because he has given his support to a document on the wrong assumption. I would not want to vote for anything if I were under a wrong assumption. The legal officers of the Crown are quite clear that the legal view is that the old regulation becomes nonexistent. The Public Service Board has indicated to me as Leader of the Government in the Senate that if regulation 112 is to be retained in its present form it will consult with the Office of Parliamentary Counsel, which is a new organisation, on a form for a revised provision. That would have the effect of holding the situation. It would not be prejudicial to those public servants who may be caught up in the hiatus. It would give the Committee further time to look at this question which  Senator Davidson  has brought up. He gave his support to the disallowance on an assumption which legally is still questionable, putting it at its lowest level. If regulation 1 12 is retained that will give us time, and it will certainly give the Office of Parliamentary Counsel time, to look into the matter. I give an assurance - and I accept responsibility for it - that a revised provision will be immediately examined. 
The Public Service Board has indicated to me that if regulation  112  is retained in its present form, that is if it is not disallowed, it will consult with the Office of Parliamentary Counsel - that is the new office for the advisers in relation to regulations and Acts - on the form of a revised provision. In any event it is desirable to resolve this matter this afternoon. I would not like it to be talked out. It is proper that we should vote on it. I hope that the Senate in its judgment on this occasion will not vote for the disallowance, because if it does not and regulation 1 1 2 stands I have given an assurance, with authority, that the regulations will be . immediately looked at again. 
by leave - During question time  Senator Wilkinson  asked me whether I would make some observations in relation to radioactive fallout. Honourable senators will be aware that there are 2 committees which keep the Commonwealth Government fully informed on the situation in respect of radioactive fallout in Australia. The Atomic Weapons Test Safety Committee, known as AWTSC, which is serviced by the Department of Supply, conducts two complementary monitoring programmes on radioactive fallout. One has operated continuously since 1957 and is devoted to monitoring the levels of longlived isotopes in fallout, that is, strontium 90 and caesium 137. Particular attention is given to these elements as they are considered potentially the most hazardous of the radioactive materials released to the environment in nuclear tests. The second programme is directed mainly at the shorter-lived radio isotopes in fallout which may be of significance only in the few months immediately after nuclear tests. This short term programme is instituted for a particular test or series of tests from which fallout may reach Australia. 
The other committee is the National Radiation Advisory Committee, known as NRAC, which is serviced by the Prime Minister's Department and advises the Commonwealth on matters concerning the effects of ionising radiation, whatever its origin, on the Australian community. The results of the AWTSC's monitoring programmes are immediately made available to the NRAC. The 2 committees co-operate closely and meet frequently.It will be appreciated that in a comprehensive scientific monitoring programme of the type described it is necessary for all data to be collected, analysed and correlated before either of the 2 committees can issue any reports. In its most recently published report, that of March . 1969, the NRAC concluded that the fallout from the then most recent French tests in the Pacific, like that from earlier French tests, was of no significance as a hazard to the health of the Australian population. In respect of the latest French tests, the NRAC can see no reason to depart from its conclusion that the overall programme of French nuclear tests in the Pacific is unlikely to be of significance as a hazard to the health ofthe Australian population. 
The general picture on the levels of radioactive fallout in Australia can be summarised as follows. In the case of annual deposits from the atmosphere of the long-lived radio isotopes strontium 90 and caesium 137, there has been a steady decline from 1964 to 1968, which is the last year for which complete data is held. In 1964 deposits of these elements, although still not a dangerous level, reached a maximum as a result of the extensive test programmes of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics in 1961 and 1962 and the United States of America in 1962. The French tests in the Pacific, while making some contribution to the fallout of these elements in Australia, have not been sufficient to reverse the steady decline. Insofar as the shorter-lived radio isotopes are concerned, that which is potentially most hazardous is iodine 131. However, I stress that this material is not so important in an assessment of overall biological hazards as the long-lived materials I have already described. 

 Major milk supplies are monitored for iodine 131 when it may be present in fallout. A guide level for the presence of iodine 131 in milk has been adopted by many countries, including Australia, of 200 pecacuries per litre averaged over a year. Continuous contamination to that average level of iodine 131 would not contribute a significant threat to the health of the population. In Australia the annual mean of iodine 131 has remained well below this level. I, might add that due to its rapid radioactive decay it is usually present for only a few months after a nuclear weapons test. 
When there is an upward variation in pension rates traditionally this matter is raised in the Senate. As I look across the chamber I have in my mind certain honourable senators who have raised this matter. But it has always been the practice of the Government to fix a date for the payment of increased pensions and to attempt to get the legislative programme through by that date. 1 am happy to say that the Senate has always co-operated in getting the legislation through by the due date in order to enable the increases to be paid. In this instance, I believe, the date suggested for payment of increased pensions is Lst October. As long as I have been here, in similar circumstances - and I do not suggest that it should be done on this occasion - the Opposition has always put a case for retrospective payment of increased pensions. 1 do not believe that retrospectivity will be granted on this occasion, but I certainly will refer the honourable senator's question to the Treasurer. 
At question time  Senator Poyser  asked me a question about the aircraft industry in Australia. I suggested it would be more appropriate to make a ministerial statement giving some information. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

The most appropriate way of dealing with the honourable senator's question is to outline briefly the situation at each of the 3 major defence aircraft production establishments, that is, the Government Aircraft Factories at Fishermen's Bend and Avalon in Victoria, Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation Pty Ltd at Fishermen's Bend in Victoria, and Hawker-De Havilland Australia Pty Ltd at Bankstown and Lidcombe in New South Wales. At the present time the work load of the Government Aircraft Factories, Victoria, consists of Jindivik production, on which forward orders ensure continuity until 1973; Ikara production, on which there is a substantial forward workload; the manufacture of Macchi canopies; Mirage spares manufacture; Project 'N' development - the first prototype is due to fly in mid 1971; Turana development and miscellaneous production and servicing work. The Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation Pty Ltd is currently working on Macchi airframe and Viper engine production - the last Macchi is due for delivery in mid 1972; Mirage and Atar spares manufacture; servicing and modification of Avon, Atar and Viper engines; some Ikara work and some commercial work. 
Hawker-De Havilland Australia Pty Ltd is engaged on Macchi airframe and Viper engine production, miscellaneous spares manufacture, overhaul of various engines and aircraft, and some commercial work. The work loads for 1970-71 for these facilities are expected to be approximately 1 million man hours for the Government Aircraft Factories, 1,600,000 man hours for Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation Pty Ltd and 1,200,000 man hours for Hawker-De Havilland Australia Pty Ltd. Without new prospects these work loads could be expected to reduce substantially in 1971-72. The Mirage replacement would not have any impact on the Australian work load for some 4 years at least. The main prospects for an early new work load are the possibility of producing Macchi aircraft for New Zealand, co-production of light, observation helicopters, the manufacture of an anti-aircraft missile for the Army, Turana production, project 'N' production, and participation in overseas defence projects through off-set orders, coproduction and subcontracting. 
Honourable senators are aware that a great deal of effort is being expended in attempting to develop projects for the industry so as to maintain the work load. But as I have said in this place on a number of occasions, it is not an easy area that we are in and we are confronted with a problem which is not peculiar to Australia but is a current problem in the aircraft industry all over the world. However, every effort is being made to find a suitable work load for the aircraft industry in the companies to which I have referred. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - ls it desired to rearrange the business? 
Yes. I move: 
That order of the day No. 1 be postponed until after consideration of orders of the day Nos 2, 3 and 4. 
For the purpose of debate I suggest that orders of the day Nos 2, 3 and 4 be dealt with concurrently on the motion to take note of the papers. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
[2.15]  -  Mr President,  I ask leave of the Senate to move a motion and to debate the question of the sitting hours of the Senate. 
[4.10]  -  As we would have no chance of concluding by 4.30 our discussion on the next motion I wish to move, I do not think we should commence that discussion this afternoon. I move: 
That the Senate do now adjourn. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
May I have leave to make a very brief comment? 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
I have taken on board what  Senator Murphy  has said. He took an extreme case involving the premise that in this instance we would be rising, say, in 5 minutes time. He dealt with the effect of withdrawing a notice of motion on the last day, which would prevent any senator who was so minded from moving for disallowance.  Senator Murphy  has made the point that the 
Regulations and Ordinances Committee should be having a look al this issue and discussing it. At a suitable time I have no doubt the Committee will have some comments to offer on this matter and will report back to the Senate. 
by leave - It is proposed that the Senate will rise at 4.30 this afternoon. It is planned that we will deal with 2 short Bills listed on the notice paper. I hope then to ask for leave of the Senate to raise some matters relating to the conduct of the Senate, including days and hours of sitting. Possibly I will do that after luch, Other matters I have in mind are the length of speeches, urgency motions, and the incorporation in Hansard of answers to questions. We may even get to the stage of discussing procedures in relation to petitions. After we have dealt with the 2 Bills on the notice paper, that is, the Anglo-Australian Telescope Agreement Bill and the Book Bounty Bill which, I gather, will not be opposed by the Opposition parties, it is envisaged that this afternoon we will move on to discuss the conduct of our own affairs. 1 understand that the debate will take place on non-party lines and that a free vote will be taken. 
Motion (by  Senator Murphy)  agreed to: 
That Notices of Motion Nos 2, 3, 4 and 5, Business of the Senate, be stood over until the next day of sitting. 
Motion (by  Senator Rae)  agreed to: 
That Notice of Motion No. 6, Business of the Senate, be postponed until the next day of sitting. 
I lay on the table texts of the undermentioned treaties to which Australia has become a party by signature: 
Exchange of Notes constituting an Agreement between the Government of the Commonwealth of Australia and the Royal Lao Government, signed at Vientianne on 24th of March 1970, extending the Foreign Exchange Operations Fund Agreement entered into on 24th December 1963. 
Agreement between the Government of the Commonwealth of Australia and the Government of the Republic of South Africa relating to air services, signed at Pretoria on 22nd April 1970. 
Amendment to the Trade Agreement between the Commonwealth of Australia and New Zealand, signed at Canberra on 27th April 1970. 
Exchange of Notes constituting an Agreement between the Government of the Commonwealth of Australia and the Government of the United States on the launching of three Aerobee Rockets by National Aeronautics and Space Administration, signed at Canberra on 22nd May 1970. 
Arrangement concerning certain Dairy Products under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, signed by Australia on 12th February 1970. 
by leave - I have today circulated to all honourable senators a document entitled Senate Estimates Committees, Proposed Procedures'. Included in this document will be found a suggested timetable for the sittings of the Estimates committees and also a memorandum of the suggested procedure in the committees. It is hoped that the general debate on the Budget Papers will be concluded this week and I propose, at the conclusion of that debate, to move a formal motion for the reference of the Estimates to the 5 Estimates committees. Then, when the Senate resumes on 15th September after next week's adjournment period, the Estimates committees will be in a position to commence their consideration of the Estimates. 
The suggested timetable for the sittings of the Estimates committees is not put forward in any conclusive way, because it is appreciated that the sittings of the committees must fit in with the other work of the Senate. Nevertheless, it would greatly facilitate the orderly functioning of the committees if some such timetable could be agreed upon in principle and adhered to as closely as possible. By circulating these documents at this stage, honourable senators will have an opportunity to consider the proposed timetable and suggested procedures of the committees. Then, when motion is made later this week for the reference of the Estimates to the committees, there will be an opportunity for honourable senators to express any points of view and put forward any further suggestions if they so desire. 
by leave - I move: 
That on Thursday, 3rd September 1970, and in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, leave be granted to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works to meet during the sittings of the Senate on that day. 
The Committee has an urgent reference and it is desired that it should meet on Thursday. It has to take evidence on that day. Consistent with what is done in special cases such as that, I have moved accordingly. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
[5.20] - Last week I moved a motion that the Senate concurs in the resolution transmitted to the Senate by message No. 73 of the House of Representatives with reference to the appointment of a joint select committee to inquire into and report upon the defence forces retirement benefits legislation.  Senator Murphy  moved an amendment to the motion and I propose now to speak, to the amendment. In simple terms, both sides of the Senate concurred in the appointment of a joint select committee. My motion contained the proposal that on the committee there should be 3 senators, 1 nominated by the Leader of the Government in the Senate, 1 nominated by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate and 1 nominated by the Leader of the Australian Democratic Labor Party. In essence  Senator Murphy's  amendment proposes that whilst agreeing with the proposal for the establishment of the committee, the number should be altered to provide for 2 senators nominated by the Leader of the Government in the Senate, 2 nominated by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate and 1 nominated by the Leader of the Democratic Labor Party. The Government is not prepared to accept the amendment. 
I do not need to speak at any length on this matter. As the Senate has only half as many members as the House of Representatives it seems to the Government that its original proposal is basic and that to have a joint committee of the 2 Houses with the same number of members from each House would not be realistic. As a second point I should mention that at this time in the evolution of the Senate we are embarking on a committee system in which we will have Estimates committees. Eventually we will have 7 standing committees; we have 2 at the moment and by the beginning of the new year we will have 5 more. The proposal to increase the number of senators on this joint select committee would create an embarrassment for us. I mention that point in passing. But my real reason for opposing the amendment is that the committee would be out of balance if it were composed of 5 senators from this chamber and 5 members of another place. We believe that the original proposal of 5 members of the House of Representatives and 3 senators is more practical. We cannot support the amendment moved by  Senator Murphy. 
I give notices of motion for the next day of sitting. The notices are given as General Business in my capacity as a senator and not as a Minister of the Crown. The notices of motion read: 
That the Senate agrees in principle that the reply to a question on notice shall be given by delivering the same to the  Clerk.  A copy thereof shall be supplied to the senator who has asked the question and such question and reply shall be printed in Hansard. 
That the Senate agrees in principle that standing order No. 64 relating to urgency motion should provide that the whole discussion on the subject should not exceed 2 hours. 
That the Senate agrees in principle to such changes as are necessary to the relevant standing orders to provide that no senator shall speak for more than 30 minutes in any debate in the Senate, provided that where a right of reply is allowed in any debate in the Senate, a senator speaking in reply shall speak for not more than IS minutes. 
[4.21] - I am sure the Senate has no objection to  Senator Fitzgerald's  putting his view about this matter because, as the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  has said,  Senator Fitzgerald  has motions on the Notice Paper for the 

 Standing Committee on setting up of a select committee on the subject relating to this reference. But I want to remind the Senate of the circumstances relating to the setting up of standing committees. When the Senate decided to set up standing committees  Senator Murphy  gave notice of motion to establish 5 committees within the framework of the 2 standing committees that had in fact been established by resolution of the Senate. When the first motion of which notice had been give in this respect was brought on in the Senate, I spoke against the reference of the matter in question to a standing committee. At the time I indicated that the arguments I would bring forward were related not so much to the substance of that reference but to the procedures that were inherent in his proposal. Subsequent speakers on the Government side and certainly from the Australian Democratic Labor Party spoke in the same vein as I did. I said that the argument i had advanced in respect of the first notice of motion was equally applicable to the others. 
Now that we have come to one of the other notices of motion I do not want to canvass all the reasons I gave as to why the Government would not support the motion for a reference to a select committee. This afternoon  Senator Murphy  in handling his motion was commendably brief and 1 hope to be the same. The reason why the Government objects to this reference is that it believes it is not in the image of what the Senate proposed when it set up standing committees. The Government believes that references to standing committees - as distinct from select committees which in the Government's view conduct a far deeper, longer and broader review - were intended for 2 heads. The first one would be related to a Bill which would be before the Senate when it was believed there may be some aspect of that Bill which the Senate was not happy to go on with and take into Committee. It would refer that Bill by resolution under notice to the relevant standing committee to obtain elucidation of some aspect before the Bill reached the Committee stage and the third reading of the Bill. 
The second head on which the standing committees would function would be some immediate matter of particular consequence but which would not involve a long term examination in which the committee 

 Health and Welfare 405 was going to move from place to place necessarily and call witnesses from industry, and other fields of endeavour. But such references would be confined to topical and eminent subjects on which honourable senators in their judgments felt they needed almost immediately some background information. That was the understanding that we had in relation to the establishment of standing committees. There may be some grey area which remains vague and it may be that we will have to draw a line to show where we should start and finish in making references. But we did believe that select committees were to be left in that restricted field and that where a long term issue was involved it would be more appropriate for it to be bandied by a select committee which takes more time and involves itself in much more detail. 
At present we have a number of select committees. One of them, the Senate Select Committee on Off-shore Petroleum Resources, has been in existence for about 32 months. We have other committees which have been operating for 5 or 6 months, lt was never intended that standing committees should conduct those longterm surveys. Without touching, as  Senator Murphy  deliberately has chosen not to touch, upon the substance of this suggested reference, it is sufficient for me to say that the Government believes this matter is one which, without reflecting on its merits or demerits, it would be more appropriate to a select committee than to a standing committee. For those reasons the Government resists the motion. 
[4. 1 3] - f move: 
That at 8 p.m. today intervening General Business ' be postponed until after consideration of notices of motion Nos 8, 9 and 10. 
That will have the effect of bringing on tonight under General Business discussion of times of speaking etcetera in relation to which, by common consent, there is to be a free debate and a free vote by honourable senators. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
[8.1I] -I have 3 motions in my own name on the business paper. If honourable senators look at today's Senate Notice Paper at page 1220 they will see Notices of Motion Nos 8, 9 and 10. I propose to take them in the order in which they appear on the Notice Paper.I do not propose to deal with them in a cognate debate because various senators have different views about different motions. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI could do that but experience has taught me that somebody who is not here now will come in in 10 minutes time and say: What are we talking about and what are we not talking about?'I propose to deal with the first motion as it is on the Notice Paper and to speak to it. Then it will be open for discussion by honourable senators. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONWe vote on that and dispose of it. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONYes. I am not going to speak about it at any great length at all. I am not on my feet as the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I am not here putting forward Government policy. By agreement among all honourable senators what we say, do and vote on in relation to these 3 motions is a completely free, uninhibited expression of view. It may well be that we will find that not necessarily everybody from each Party is on the same side when the count is taken. Trusting that that is completely understood 1 move: 
That the Senate agrees in principle that the reply to a Question on Notice shall be given by delivering the same to the  Clerk.  A copy thereof shall be supplied to the  Senator who  has asked the question and such question and reply shall be printed in Hansard. 
What happens is this: An honourable senator asks a question. If it is asked on a Tuesday or a Thursday it is broadcast between 7 o'clock and 8 o'clock at night. If it is asked on a Wednesday it is broadcast at the time the honourable senator asks the question and it goes into Hansard. Full publicity is given to the question. In reply the Minister may say: 'Put it on the Notice Paper.' He may give a short answer and then say: 'Put it on the Notice Paper.' 

Yes. 
1 agree wilh that and I am sure you do,  Mr President. 
[9.37] - I am not going to add much to the debate. At least we have had an expression of view. On reflection 1 think it would be better to take a decision here. We have gone this far. We have debated this since 8 o'clock. Let us have a decision. I think it is desirable to put this to the test. I have a fair idea where the end result is going to be. I remember many years ago when I was in high school and volunteers were called for. Somebody said to me: 'Never volunteer.' After tonight I will never volunteer. 
That notice of motion No. 8, General Business, be referred to the Standing Orders Committee for consideration and report back to the Senate. 

 Senator Murphy has foreshadowed a further amendment. To keep the amendments in order I will take  Senator Bull's  amendment first. 
Committee is carried 1 would not be able to put my proposal. If it is defeated I will put mine. 
Amendment negatived. 
 Mr President,  I would like on behalf of the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  to inform the Senate of the following ministerial arrangements. The Minister for External Affairs,  Mr McMahon.  left Australia on 7th September to attend the high level meeting of the Development Assistance Committee of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, which is being he'.d in Tokyo on 14th and 15th September.  Mr McMahon  will then go to New York to attend the early stages of the United Nations General Assembly debate and he will later participate in the first Australian-Canadian consultative talks in Ottawa. During his absence, the Minister for National Development,  Mr Swartz,  is Acting Minister for External Affairs. 
The Treasurer,  Mr Bury,  left Australia on 12th September for Cyprus to attend the annual meeting of the Commonwealth Finance Ministers which is being held in Nicosia during this week.  Mr Bury  will also visit Copenhagen to attend the annual meetings of the Board of Governors of the International Monetary Fund and International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and Affiliates. The Treasurer is expected to return to Australia on 10th October and during his absence the Prime Minister is Acting Treasurer. 
The Minister for Shipping and Transport,  Mr Sinclair,  left Australia on 13th September for Fiji to lead the Australian delegation to the South Pacific Conference.  Mr Sinclair  is expected to return to Australia on 19th September. During his absence, the Minister for Civil Aviation,  Senator Cotton,  will act as Minister for Shipping and Transport. 
The Minister for Works,  Senator Wright,  left Australia on 12th September to visit the United States of America, at the invitation of the United States Travel Service.  Senator Wright  is expected to return to Australia on 20th September and during his absence the Minister for Customs and Excise,  Mr Chipp,  is Acting Minister for Works.  Senator Wright's  absence will also necessitate some changes in ministerial representation in the Senate.  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson. Minister for Supply, will represent the Acting Minister for Works, and the Ministers for Labour and National Service, Education and Science, External Territories and the AttorneyGeneral. 
by leave - Honourable senators will understand that in making this statement on behalf of the Minister for Trade and 
Industry  (Mr McEwen)  when I use the first person singular pronoun it refers to the Minister. 
I wish to inform the Senate that the Government intends to introduce amending legislation during the present session to permit it to pay a temporary additional bounty to local manufacturers currently producing bountiable tractors. This is an urgent short term measure, pending a review and report by the Tariff Board on the question of longer term assistance for the industry. Bounty assistance has been afforded the Australian tractor manufacturing industry since 1922. Assistance is currently given the production of agricultural tractors under the Agricultural Tractors Bounty Act 1966 which was introduced following a Tariff Board report in September 1966. 
The decision to introduce amending legislation followed an urgent review by the Government of the position of the Australian tractor industry. The Government received evidence from the 2 Australian manufacturers of tractors eligible for bounty, Chamberlain Industries Pty Ltd of Western Australia and International Harvester Co. of Victoria, which indicated that the industry was facing serious damage from import competition, and that this situation would continue unless urgent action was taken to assist the local industry. The investigations carried out by the Government indicated that there had been a substantial downturn in total sales of agricultural tractors in Australia, and that imports of tractors had significantly affected the local industry's share of this reduced market. Normally when an industry faces serious and damaging competition from imports it would be referred to the Special Advisory Authority for consideration of temporary protection, pending report by the Tariff Board. However, the Special Advisory Authority is not empowered to recommend on bounties which, as indicated earlier, have been the traditional method of assistance for this industry. 
The Government, in the light of the information before it, therefore proposes to provide short term additional assistance to the industry pending investigation and report by the Tariff Board. This will be done by payment of a temporary addi tional bounty on sales of tractors eligible for the existing bounty, equal to 100 per cent of the scale of bounty payments currently payable under the Agricultural Tractors Bounty Act 1966. The cost of this additional assistance is estimated at $ 1.25m to the end of the 1970-71 financial year. Investigations indicated that this was the level of assistance which was required by the Australian tractor manufacturing industry in current circumstances. The level of the additional temporary bounty will be reviewed by the Government prior to the 1971-72 Budget. 
The temporary additional bounty will be administered by the Minister for Customs and Excise, and will be payable on sales made of bountiable tractors on and from 1st July 1970. The additional assistance will be given only in respect of tractors manufactured at premises registered under the Agricultural Tractors Bounty Act 1966 as at 1st July 1970. Enabling legislation will be introduced in this session of Parliament, and a reference to the Tariff Board will be made shortly. It is proposed that the Act, when amended, be extended to 30th June 1972, subject to earlier termination by proclamation if appropriate. 
(5.0)  -  I think I should make it abundantly clear to honourable senators that in rising to speak to the amendment which was moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  I am not closing the debate. Because I am speaking to the amendment, I am not in a position to reply to some of the arguments which were raised by  Senator Bishop,  although I may deal with one aspect if time permits because reference is made to it in the amendment of the Leader of the Opposition. The Leader of the Opposition moved his amendment and then spoke to it. If one examines his remarks one sees that there is no relationship between them and the terms of his amendment.  His  speech was destructive. It did not make any positive contribution to the debate on the Budget. He failed to make any constructive suggestions as to the economic structure of the Budget. In fact, the Leader of the Opposition said nothing which would take the people of Australia anywhere in an economic sense. If his remarks were intended to be the authentic views of the alternative government then they hold grim prospects for the people of Australia. 

 Mr Acting Deputy President, I would suggest to you that right at the outset you should ask  Senator Georges,  who is attempting to interject, to keep out of the arena. I am entitled to speak for an hour, but I am going to try to confine my remarks to half an hour in consideration of other honourable senators. In a 27 minute burst from the Leader of the Opposition we heard only what the Australian Labor Party would oppose. We did not hear anything of a constructive nature nor did he apply his mind to justifying his opposition to the Budget proposals. I wish to make a few comments about what the Leader of the Opposition said in his remarks in justification of the terms of his amendment.  His  amendment refers to the failure of the Government to meet the needs to restructure stricken primary industry. In fact, not a single word was said in his speech about primary industry. The only thing I can find about primary industry is in the wording of the amendment. To talk about the need to restructure stricken primary industry and then to offer no constructive suggestion, as tha 
Leader of the Opposition has done, is an extraordinary way to approach a Budget debate. 
On the contrary, the Budget Speech deals in a significant and positive way with the problems of primary industry. For instance, to mention just a few, it is estimated that $215m will be expended on rural industries, which is $77m more than last year. A payment of $30.5m will be made in respect of exports from the 1968-69 wheat crop. Bounties on dairy products are estimated to cost $45m in 1970-71, which is $17.5m more than in  1969-70. Quite a significant reference is made in the Budget to the fact that those people who are dependent on wool for their income are to be assisted by a oneyear scheme of emergency relief to the order of $30m. Provision is also made in the Budget for Commonwealth expenditure of $2.9m in 1970-71 towards the costs of (handling and brokers' administration charges in relation to the price averaging plan. These are positive proposals. On the other hand,  Senator Murphy  in his amendment referred to primary industries but in his speech he does not make any reference to primary industries at all beyond saying that the Government has done nothing  about primary industry. I suggest to the (honourable senator that in fact the Government has recognised the problems of the industry and is making a constructive contribution towards solving the problem. 
The next example I want to deal with in the amendment is characteristic, if I may say so without disrespect, of . a hit-run effort. The honourable senator said that the Budget failed to meet the needs of assistance to schools. Under that head  Senator Murphy  used 70 words, as I counted them, most of which related not to the Australian scene but to the scene in Japan and the United States. Obviously the honourable senator was attempting to draw an analogy. Contrary to the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate the Budget deals quite significantly with education. Under the new arrangements at the Premiers conference level the States have been given considerably greater assistance in terms of allocation and, as a consequence, the States In their own sovereignty will be able to make significant additional contributions to the field of education. I. have in front of me a copy of the 'Australian' of 14th September. Although the Premier of New South Wales has not yet made his Budget speech a journalist has written a story. in which it is suggested that New South Wales is going to make a significant increase in its allocation for education this financial year. The heading states: 'Budget allots record sum on education.' Underneath this heading the report states: 
The new Commonwealth-State financial agreement reached in Canberra in fane will enable  Mr Askin  to spend much more on health and hospital services as well as on eduction. .  
The article then goes on to portray the significant increases which will be made in education as a result of the Commonwealth's special recognition at the Premiers conference level of the needs of the States. The Budget under this head deals with Commonwealth expenditure relating ~ to education for special purposes. Specific purpose payments to the States this year are expected to rise by 29 per cent from $148m to about $191m. I know we are living in a world where we are reaching astronomical figures but when one starts talking in terms of a 29 per cent increase in one financial year one is really talking in very high percentages. The Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  in the Budget speech states: 
. payments tor universities $78m; for the developing colleges of advanced education $35m; for special purpose unmatched grants for school facilities, technical colleges and teacher training colleges $48m ... 
The expenditure extends right through the education field. I suggest this contribution has to be looked at across the board in terms of education. One cannot take one figure out in isolation and say that in that field the increase has not been significant therefore nothing has been done in the educational field. The story of Commonwealth intervention in education is a dramatic story and it demonstrates that this Government, above all else in the field of education, has made mammoth contributions whereas a decade ago there was practically no Commonwealth subvention in the field of education other than through the normal channel of the Premiers conference and contributions to the States in that way. In relation to Commonwealth scholarships the Treasurer in the Budget speech stated:   . . this year there are 61,000 students holding these awards in tertiary, technical and secondary institutions. For 1971 the number of openentrance university scholarships will be increased by 1,000 to 8,500 ... In 1971, the number of post-graduate awards for research training will be increased by 50 to 700 and a new category of post-graduate awards for course work leading to masters degrees will be created; there will be 100 of these new awards in 1971. 
I want to make it clear that this year Commonwealth expenditure specifically related to education is expected to be in excess of $3 12m which will be an increase of $63m or approximately 25 per cent in its totality. Another point I want to refer to in the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition is in relation to Vietnam. About one-third of the contribution by the Leader of the Opposition was about Vietnam. Strangely enough if one reads the amendment there is no reference to Vietnam. This represents a reverse. Previously the Leader of the Opposition put subjects in his amendment and did not speak about them. In this case he has put Vietnam in his speech but he has not put it in his amendment. In this situation it is very difficult to. debate and follow the direction of the attack by the Leader of the Opposition. I make it abundantly clear that I do not, 1 know the Government does not and I am sure the overwhelming majority of Australians do not accept and indeed reject the implication - if it is an implication - contained in the honourable senator's speech. He "referred to: 'our association with this evil war against the Vietnamese people.' 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe honourable senator has shown great forbearance and I commend him for it. I give him top marks.  Senator Georges  has been most constrained in his natural inclination to get . into this. But I push on because I do not want to go over a certain time. I say loudly and clearly that we. in Australia - it is the policy of the Government - are in association with our allies to help the free , people of South Vietnam to preserve their freedom against the cruel and wicked invaders from North Vietnam who are being aided, .supported and for the most part directed by Communist China. . I accept and I am sure all on this side of the Parliament, at any rate, accept that the 
Communist purpose is to subjugate South Vietnam. I just ask this simple question: Does anybody really imagine that it would stop there? Does anybody really imagine that if this war were negotiated and everybody withdrew and left the South Vietnamese to themselves and they did not have the capacity finally to defend themselves that it would stop there? Surely our national security demands that we should have firm allies. It demands that we, along with those allies, have a contribution to make to preserve the ultimate peace of this Pacific region. I suggest that this is not done by letting Communist aggression overrun South Vietnam. Are the lessons of Korea and Malaya so quickly forgotten? Does the Australian Labor Party want to put Australia in a state of isolation? If that is their policy it' is certainly not the Gov.ernment's policy and it is not the policy which the people of Australia expect and recognise while this Government remains in power. 
The honourable senator's amendment also refers to social services.  Senator Bishop  spoke along the same lines as  Senator Murphy.  The Opposition seems to think that when one is talking about social services one is merely talking about the base rate old age pension. If the old age pension is increased 50c - as it was - and it is inadequate therefore the whole social service structure is inadequate. I suppose one could go on to argue in the form ' of logic used by the Opposition that if it had been increased by a dollar all would have been happy in relation to social services. But the fact of the matter is that the social service benefits and improvements which have been made have , to be. looked at in the light of the whole structure of the social service provision and what the Government has been able to do. If one goes back over the years and looks at the various things that have been done by way of improvement in social services - I have the figures here - the argument put forward by. the Opposition has no relationship to what has been done in respect of the tapered means test. It has no relationship to dependent children, to special .aid, to mothers and guardians allowances or to such things as are in this Budget in relation to the Handicapped Children (Assistance) Act which will provide a capital cost subsidy for accommodation. It has no relationship to the delivery of meals on wheels which is provided for in this Budget. It has no relation to the personal care subsidy scheme which also is provided for in the Budget. It is wrong and narrow in approach simply to make a judgment in relation to one head of social services. The history of the past 5 years, particularly of the Gorton Government, shows a continuing review of social services in the broad. Our welfare assistance has been directed to the areas where it is felt that there is an immediate or a very pressing need. It is wrong, as  Senator Murphy  and  Senator Bishop  have done, to concentrate on one aspect and to say that an increase of 50c in the base rate pension is not adequate and therefore the Government has failed in the field of social services. One has to look at the whole record, which is there for all to see, to recognise the great assistance that this Government has given in that field. 
In his amendment  Senator Murphy  referred to increased taxes and described them as regressive, inequitable and so on, but let me say in fairness to him that he also argued on those lines in his speech. He attacked the principle of indirect taxation and said that his Party was opposed to it. Let me say that we in Australia are trailing behind other countries in the application of the principle of indirect taxation, having regard to the fact that every government has to budget to raise revenue. As  Senator Cotton  said yesterday, you do not set out in a Budget to give handouts. A Budget is an economic instrument. It is the instrument by which you control the destiny and the fiscal policy of the Government for the ensuing 12 months. Governments are moving increasingly towards the application of the principle of indirect taxation. As I have said, we in Australia have tended to drop behind in that way. After all, indirect taxation has the virtue of personal choice whereas income tax. is compulsory. As I read the facts, countries like Sweden, Germany, Denmark, the United States of America, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom and France have shown a tendency, in the gathering of revenue, to move towards the principle of indirect taxation, the principle of the user paying the tax. 

 Senator Murphy spoke about inflation. This Budget is shaped deliberately to be anti-inflationary. It is shaped so that, In terms of the structure of the Budget, we will end the fiscal year with almost a line ball - a modest surplus. One Is entitled to ask this question: What is the alternative? ff one reads  Senator Murphy's  speech and makes an evaluation of his amendment, one comes to the conclusion that the Labor Party either would need a mammoth increase in taxation, direct or indirect, or it envisages as a principle a very high deficit Budget. That, if carried to its logical conclusion and used for any great length of time, is the surest way to create an inflationary tendency. The harder you go with a deficit Budget and the more money you pour into the community, the more you tend to let loose the reins on inflation. 
The Budget sets out to give income tax relief to the middle and lower income groups in the community. Here again I believe there has been complete misunderstanding on the part of the Opposition which has tried to denigrate the proposal; but that is politics, is it not? In truth not less than 4,950,000 taxpayers will receive a benefit from the Government's proposal. What is more, it is well to remember that in relation to those who will reap the benefit of the reduction in income tax less than 1 per cent of taxpayers have a taxable income of over $10,000 a year. 
There has been a tendency on the part of Labor senators to say in the debate that only the middle income group will benefit. It is interesting to find where the middle income group starts and finishes. I want everyone to realise that of the people in the community who pay income tax approximately 4,950,000 will get a benefit under these proposals. 
It is interesting to see that when we put the weight in we get the interjections. As I was saying, only 1 per cent of taxpayers have a taxable income of over $10,000 a year. 
Just wait for it. Let me give a few simple examples of the scope of the benefit. The average weekly male earning in New South 
Wales in the June quarter this year was $77. SO. I am the first to recognise that that would not be the taxable income, so we need to deduct such things as the allowances for children and for education. 

Please allow me to do this in my own way. Assuming that the nian earning $77. SO a week has a wife and 2 children and receives deductions for dependants, rates and taxes and the other things that are reasonably accepted as deductible, his deductions could quite easily total $500 or $600. On a taxable income of $3,170 such a man paid $5.10 in 1969-70 but for the year 1970-71 after we have passed the legislation relating to the new rates of taxation, he will pay $459.17, a reduction of $50.83. 
Let me take the case of a single man earning $77.80 a week, say $4,046 a year. Being single, he obviously would not have as many deductions as would a married man but let us allow him $146 a year for insurance, medical fees and so on.  His  tax will drop from $738 under the old scale to $664.71, a saving of $73.70. 1 take another simple example of a man with a taxable income of $5,200 a year, which is $100 a week net. That is not unknown. He does not have to be in the collar and tie class to earn that, does be? He will save $121.36 a year in income" tax. 
Because my time is running out, I want to move quickly to examine the Labor Party's arguments regarding living costs and wages. In this regard there is a constant lack of appreciation of the position. Contrary to what  Senator Murphy  said, I point out that in truth it can be demonstrated that the community is enjoying the rewards of improved living standards. The consumer price index increased by 23.7 per cent between 1959-60 and 1968-69. Over the same period the rise in average weekly earnings was $25 or 56.9 per cent. Between 1967-68 and 1968-69- that is narrowing it down to a year - the rise in the consumer price index was 2.6 per cent and the rise, in average weekly earnings was 7.2 per cent. Details of these series since 1.959-60 are shown in a table which, with the  concurrence  of  honourable senators, 1 incorporate in Hansard. 

<graphic href="045232197009160_32_3.jpg"></graphic>

I said that I wanted to speak only in response to the amendment and to speak for only about half an hour, if I could. I put it to the Senate that a Budget is not to be judged simply by turning over the pages - I actually saw honourable senators doing this on the night the Budget was presented - in order to see, out of human interest, what are the variations in social service benefits or repatriation benefits. The point 1 want to make is that a Budget is an instrument by which a country will either live and prosper or perish. If a government just says: 'We will make up our Budget of all the conceivable handouts known to man', it will not be very long before the country will go to the wall. A Budget has to be calculated to give help in the field of social services to the extent to which the economy can stand it and to the extent to which productivity will allow it. The whole structure of  a  country depends upon its capacity for productivity. 
But  members  of the Labor Party seem to fail to grasp that. They seem to think in isolation of what  a  particular item gives in terms of social services, for example. If a country proceeded on the basis of their thinking it in fact would destroy those it wanted to help because it would immediately start down the slippery slide of depreciating the value of what it gave. The greatest thing that can be given to the working man - in Australia we are overwhelmingly working people - is security* We have to give the working man security in terms of his employment  and  we  have  to give him national security. This Budget, above all else and if it does nothing else and contrary to the amendment which was just a destructive proposal, gives security to the people of Australia. It gives them security of employment. It gives them security as a nation. It gives them a prospect for the future. 
A few moments ago I referred to the fact that whilst we are living in an era of increasing costs we are also living in an era of increasing incomes. The increasing incomes are almost twice as much as the increasing costs. This does not come by chance; it comes by good government and by understanding that we must produce. We are a primary producing and manufacturing country. We must produce and we must be able to sell. Productivity is the keynote. As long as we have good productivity, good trade relations and external security, Australia's future is assured; and it can best be assured in the hands of this Government. 
Shortly I will move that the sittings of the Senate be suspended until 8 o'clock tonight, but before I do so there are a few matters that I think I should clean up because when the Senate resumes at 8 o'clock it will proceed to deal with General Business. The first matter relates to the order in which we will deal with the orders of the day under General Business at 8 o'clock. I understand it has been mutually agreed that we should deal with the order of the day which refers to the report of the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution. I move: 
That intervening business after 8 o'clock tonight be postponed until consideration of order of the day. General Business, No.. 9. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I move: 
That the sittings of the Senate be suspended until 8 p.m. 
My reason for doing so is to enable the 5 estimates committees of the Senate to meet and appoint their respective chairmen. 

Those estimates committees which have not already done so will meet and appoint their chairmen. Three of the committees, namely, estimates committees A, B and D, will then proceed to consider the Estimates. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONYes. 
(10.34)  -  In the first place, I want to express my regret - indeed I do - about the misunderstanding which occurred in this afternoon's proceedings of the com.mittes 

No. Sometimes  Senator Cavanagh  loses his sense of values. I sincerely express my regret to  Senator Poyser, Senator Cavanagh  and  Senator Keeffe  for the inconvenience and embarrassment which they suffered. As I understand the situation, the members of the committee to which those honourable senators have referred decided that they would deal with matters of procedure associated with the setting up of the committee. They resolved - as was expressed in the proposed guidelines for the functioning of the committees which were circulated - to deal with (he matters of procedure before moving into the normal process of hearing evidence. 

I have the transcript here of what I said this morning.  Senator Cavanagh  mentioned then that I could read what I had said in Hansard tomorrow. 1 suggest that he might do the same. I said that it was my understanding that the committees would be open to all honourable senators to attend. In fact, I want to say in passing that 1 was the first witness to be called before Estimates Committee A. Certainly there were a lot of people at the hearing and there were problems there, too. lt is interesting to note that questions were asked of me not only by the members of the committee but also by other senators who went along to the Committee in the same way as the 3 senators who have spoken in this debate. They directed questions to me in the normal way. I mention this only to point out that the systems in the committee before which I was the first witness did work. 1 think it was a magnificent performance in view of the fact that it was the first hearing of the committee. It is true that the room was overcrowded. There were a lot of people there who were associated with various departments. I think they came along to see how the committees were going to function. That problem will be overcome next time the committee meets. 

I was really cross-examined. The system worked. I did not envisage that today's situation would arise, although I said that probably we would be confronted with problems. All I say to the honourable senators who have said that they will not attend the committees, that they resign from them forthwith, is that they really disappoint me. They give up rather easily. I thought that they were men of stronger determination. As regards  Senator Keeffe's  statement that he will debate the Estimates in this chamber, if he looks at what I said this morning he will see that I said there will be no inhibition on anybody who wants to come into this chamber, after the committees have concluded their deliberations, and debate the Estimates de novo. I made that perfectly clear.  Senator Keeffe  does not need to get up and announce that he will debate the Estimates in this chamber. He can do that. There is no need for him to give up so easily and to resign from the committees. I am really disappointed in him. 

 Senator Cavanagh made his position quite clear this morning when he said that he did not want to be a member of the committees because he wanted to be free. But I atn rather disappointed in  Senator Keeffe  who gives up so easily. I did not think he was that type of a fellow. But that is a matter for  Senator Keeffe's  judgment, if he wants to do that. He did not need to say that he will come in here and debate the Estimates from the first page to the last page. I hope that he will reflect upon the matter and come back and say: Along with all the other senators, 1 am prepared to recognise that there are problems, but T will give it a go.' 
(8.58)- I move: 
That, unless otherwise ordered,  the  Senate, at its rising, adjourn till 10.30  a.m.  tomorrow. 
I hope that that situation will not eventuate.I anticipate that we will be able to dispose of the Repatriation Bill and of the accompanying Bill tonight. If we do I will move so that we do not have to sit tomorrow. I have to provide for the contingency of the Senate not passing the Bills, so I have moved accordingly. 
(4.28)  -  I think we have to cast our minds back to the actual motion which is one of dissent from a ruling which you,  Mr President,  gave. Since the moving of the motion of dissent there has been some canvassing of the background of the reply given by the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  to a question. As I understand the situation,  Senator Wright  was giving an answer to a question and the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  raised a point of order. You,  Sir, gave  a ruling on the point of order. Indeed, you gave an interpretation of what you believed should be the area in which expressions could be used. That disposed of that part of the answer up to that point of time.  Senator Murphy  again took a point of order in relation to what was said subsequently by  Senator Wright.  You ruled against that point of order. Like you and everybody else here, I listened carefully to what  Senator Wright  said. He read the statement made by the Leader of the Opposition in the other place  (Mr Whitlam).  It is in the Hansard of the other place. It was made by  Mr Whitlam.  He put it into Hansard.  Senator Wright  said that in his view it was seriously subversive to military discipline. That is my understanding of what you,  Mr President,  have ruled on. You have ruled that it is not in conflct with standing order 418. I believe that it is not in conflict with standing order 418. I believe that the sooner we come to a vote on the issue and the sooner we dispose of the matter the better. 
by leave - I have just received a copy of a statement made by the Prime Minister relating to the payment of payroll tax. I cannot circulate copies as I have only a copy of the Hansard report of the statement. Honourable senators will understand that when I use the. first person personal pronoun it refers to the Prime Minister. The statement reads: 
I received approximately 2 hours ago a copy of  Sir Henry  Bolte's Budget Speech and I have noted the statement in that speech that it is not the intention of the Victorian Government to seek an appropriation from the Victorian Parliament for the purpose of paying payroll tax to the Commonwealth.  Sir Henry  Bolte indicated that exclusion of provision for the payment of payroll tax to the Commonwealth would, mean a reduction of about$9m in the payments side of the Victorian Consolidated Fund for 1970-71 and, I interpolate, it would also of course mean a reduction of $9m in the amount of receipts into the Commonwealth revenue. Payroll tax has been imposed by the Commonwealth continuously since 1941. Therelevant provision of the Commonwealth law concerning payment of this tax by the States has since that time - 1 94 1 - remained unchanged. The relevant Commonwealth Act - the Payroll Tax Assessment Act 1941-1969- provides that an employer for payroll tax purposes includes the Crown in the right of a State. 
The payment of financial assistance grants by the Commonwealth to the States has, since introduction of the payroll tax in 1941, allowed for the payment of payroll tax by the States, and all the States have in fact paid payroll tax since 1941 in accordance with the provisions of the Commonwealth Act. If they had not paid payroll tax then their reimbursement grants would have been less. At the June 1970 Premiers Conference, when Commonwealth-State financial relations for the period of 5 years commencing with 1970-71 were discussed, I made plain to the Premiers that the Commonwealth proposals were on the basis that there were no significant changes in the financial relationships between the Commonwealth and the States during the 5-year period. I indicated in particular that under the proposed arrangement we would expect that the States and their authorities would continue to pay payroll tax. The actual words used at the Conference were: 
If we are to provide such a substantial increase in revenue assistance and in resources available to the States it should be on the basis that there are no significant changes in the financial relationships between the Commonwealth and the States during the period of the agreement. In particular, we would expect that the States and their authorities will continue to pay payroll tax and that the distribution of tax resources between the Commonwealth and the States will remain unchanged. 
Although the Premier of Victoria made plain that he did not regard his Government as having agreed to the financial arrangements that resulted from the Conference, there was no indication by him or any of the other Premiers that they proposed not to continue to pay payroll tax. On the other hand, as I have indicated, there was a clear and unequivocal intimation from the Commonwealth that the continuance of the payment of payroll tax was a key part of the offers made by the Commonwealth. The Commonwealth Budget for 1970-71 was accordingly formulated on the basis that payroll tax would continue to be paid by the States to the Commonwealth. This was allowed for in the Budget estimate of payroll tax collections and also in the provision for the payment of Commonwealth grants to the States. If Victoria or any other State or States were not to pay payroll tax there would thus be a direct and significant effect on the Commonwealth Budget. The Government is therefore unable to accept the position taken by the Victorian Government as stated in  Sir Henry  Bolte's Budget speech. My Government will, therefore, consider what course of action it should take in relation to  Sir Henry  Bolte's statement in order to see that the Commonwealth Budget is not impaired. I move: 
That the Senate take note of the statement. 
by leave - The Senate will be aware that to fulfil the requirements of the Constitution the next Senate election must be held before 30th June 1971. Accordingly, the Government has decided to invite His Excellency the Governor-General to communicate with the State Governors proposing that the Senate election be held on Saturday, 21st November 1970. When replies have been received from the States I shall inform the Senate of the full timetable proposed for the election. 
by leave - I notice  Senator Kennelly  is seeking to rise. With great respect to everyone, I say that f do not want to enter into a debate on the matter. Let me say, in response to the first question, that honourable senators will recall that in my statement I said that when replies had been received from the States following the invitation issued to  His Excellency  the GovernorGeneral to act on the matter, a full timetable proposed for the election would be prepared. Therefore, at the moment, it is not possible for me to do that. I am very alive to the need and I have it clearly in my sights that when we come back on the Tuesday after this break we will have to face up to our timetable and all matters relating to the time between then and when we rise for the election. I am aware of the problem. I will give it consideration and as soon as I am in a position to do so I will bring a statement into the Senate. 
by leave  -  I propose to make a statement on behalf of the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  relating to the receipts duty legislation. Honourable senators will understand that when I use the first person singular personal pronoun I shall be referring to the Prime Minister. 
Honourable members will recallthat last June legislation was introduced to impose a continuing Commonwealth receipts duty on business receipts. The Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  explained that this was being done at the request of the States, and for their benefit, the purpose being to ensure that the States did not lose revenue as a consequence of the High Court decisions which invalidated their own receipts duty legislation as it applied to certain types of receipt. The Treasurer also explained that the Commonwealth legislation would - again at the request of the States - apply retrospectively to 18th November 1969, the date on which the Commonwealth's agreement to introduce legislation for the benefit of the States was foreshadowed. Provision was made, however, for exemption from duty under the Commonwealth legislation, in respect of the period 18th November 1969 to a date to be proclaimed as the end of a transitional period if duty, whether or not validly imposed, was paid under State legislation. 
The proposed legislation was approved by this House but failed to secure the approval of the Senate. Immediately after the resumption of the House following next weeks recess, the legislation will be reintroduced in the House with inclusion of provisions under which the Commonwealth legislation will cease to apply to amounts received after 30th September 1970. 
The overall effect of the new Commonwealth legislation will be that business receipts during the period from 18th November 1969 to 30th September 1970 will be liable to duty under it at the rate of 0.1 per cent, but that this liability will not arise if the provisions of State laws in this period - whether valid or invalid - are complied with. One effect of this will be that, to the extent that receipts are specifically exempted or simply not dutiable under State law, they will not be dutiable under the Commonwealth law. Another effect will be that receipts which Queensland legislation has purported to make dutiable during this period will remain liable to duty at the lower rate of 0.02 per cent - provided, of course, Queensland duty is in fact paid on the receipts or has already been paid. 
I add that, knowing of the Government's stated intention to proceed with Commonwealth legislation to impose - at the States' request- a duty on business receipts, many businesses have continued to pay duty to the States even though the payment of an excise may have been involved. In 1969-70 the States actually collected 85 per cent or more of the total amount they had estimated they would receive. The essential purposes of the new Commonwealth legislation will be to validate the collections already received by the States and, in the case of businessesthat have refrained from paying receipts duty in respect of the period to be covered by the Commonwealth law. to require them to make such payments. The Government appreciates that the 1970-71 Budgets of the States have been framed on the assumption that the Commonwealth receipts duty legislation would have continuing operation and that the Stales would therefore receive the full benefit of the receipts duty revenue that would have been payable to them in 1970-71 if the Commonwealth legislation had continuing operation. The Government also appreciates that limiting the operation of the Commonwealth legislation to receipts up to 30th September 1970 will have a significant effect on State revenues for 1970-71 and that something will need to be done to protect the budgetary situation of the States. 
We propose that additional Commonwealth grants will be payable to the States in 1970-71 to make good the reasonable losses of State revenue resulting from the termination of the Commonwealth receipts duty legislation on 30th September 1970. As in the case of other arrangements for the payment of Commonwealth assistance grants to the States in 1970-71, our willingness to do this is on the basis that the arrangements resulting from the June 1970 Premiers Conference will apply in their entirety. For the purpose of ascertaining such reasonable losses, I am in touch with the Premiers with a view to arranging consultations between the Commonwealth and State governments as quickly as possible. We have in mind that at such consultations there will be discussed the question of the future of receipts duty in the non-excise area under State legislation against the background that the Commonwealth legislation will cease to apply to amounts received after 30th September 1970. 
(12.2) - I move: 
That the time for the estimates committees lo report to the Senate be extended and that the committees report unless otherwise ordered as soon as practicable. 
That gets us away from the existing resolution which was that the committees report on Tuesday week. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
by leave - When I informed the Senate on 1st October that the Government proposed that the next Senate election should be held on Saturday, 21st November 1970, I undertook to give full details of the timetable when replies had been received from the States. I am now able to say that all States are in agreement with the timetable, which is as follows: Issue of writs, 16th October 1970; close of nominations, 29th October 1970; polling day, 21st November 1970; date for return of writs, on or before 7th January 1971. 
I would like to make a comment on what  Senator Murphy  has just said. As late as last week I looked at the business paper myself and suggested to my staff that something should be done about the number of questions on the notice paper, one or two of which are within my own responsibility. I will certainly take this matter up and I know that other Ministers will also do this so that wecan get answers to as many questions as possible without delay. 
by leave  -  I move: 
That the sitting of the Senate be suspended until 10 p.m. to enable Estimate Committees A, B and C to meet. 
The purpose of the motion is to enable the Senate to meet again at 10 p.m. to deal with any matter that we need to deal with and also to ensure that there is no denial of any right to any honourable senator who may wish to speak during the adjournment debate at 10.30 p.m. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Sitting suspended from 4.11 to 10 p.m. 
SALES TAX BILLS (Nos 1 to 9) 1970 
Bills received from the House of Representatives. 
Motion (by  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson) proposed: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the questions with regard to the several stages for the passage through the Senate of all or several of the Sales Tax Bills Nos 1 to 9 being put in one motion, at each stage, and the consideration of all or several of such Bills together in the Committee of the Whole. 
(10.4) - I move: 
That the Bills be now read a  second  time. 
The purpose of these Bills is to increase the 25 per cent rate of sales tax to 27 per cent and so give effect to the sales tax increases announced by the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  in the Budget Speech. The 9 amending Bills are necessary because the sales tax is imposed by 9 separate Acts to meet the requirement of the Constitution that an Act imposing taxation shall deal with one subject of taxation only. That is the point about which  Senator Murphy  was concerned. The goods affected by the increase are those listed in the Second and Fifth Schedules to the Sales Tax (Exemptions and Classifications) Act. Among the principal classes of goods affected are motor cars such as sedans and station wagons which are specified in the Fifth Schedule. The increase will not apply to motor cycles, motor buses or other commercial type vehicles such as utilities, panel vans and trucks which are currently taxed at the general rate of 15 per cent. 
The Second Schedule embraces a fairly wide range of goods. The more important of these are radio and television receivers and record players; toilet and beauty preparations and shaving requisites; cameras, films and photographs; watches; jewellery and furs. A comprehensive statement listing the goods which are to be taxed at 27* per cent is being circulated for the information of honourable senators. The present rate of 2* per cent applicable to household furniture and appliances remains unaltered. So also does the general rate of 15 per cent which applies to a broad field of goods not specified in any of the sales tax schedules. The increase in rate is expected to yield additional revenue amounting to $29m in a full year. To avoid disruption of trading in goods affected by changes in sales tax rates, it has long been the practice for such changes to take effect from the day following their introduction into Parliament. Accordingly, these Bills have effect from 19th August 1970. I commend the Bills to honourable senators. 
(10.7)- I move: 
That the Bill be  now  read a  second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend the Sales Tax (Exemptions and Classifications) Act 1935-1967. Honourable senators will see from the explanatory memorandum that is being circulated that the Bill proposes amendments to the First Schedule to the Act which sets out the categories of goods that are exempt from sales tax. Two new exemptions which are proposed will exempt Australian-made motor vehicles for use by members of the armed forces of Canada and New Zealand stationed in Australia. The circumstances in which exemption will be allowable are to be prescribed by regulation, the intention being that they will parallel those in which exemption is currently available to United States and British servicemen. In conformity with Australia's obligations under the Status of Forces Agreement withthe United States, the Sales Tax (Exemptions and Classifications) Act was amended in 1963 to enable United States servicemen stationed in Australia to purchase Australianmade vehicles free of sales tax. A similar exemption was subsequently provided in favour of British servicemen. The amendment now proposed will extend the exemptions to vehicles for Canadian and New Zealand servicemen. Comparable concessions are enjoyed by Australian servicemen stationed in those countries. 
It is proposed that the specific exemption of goods for use by British Commonwealth Pacific Airlines Ltd - an airline no longer operating - and Qantas Airways Ltd be removed with effect from 20th August 1970. Other provisions of the sales tax law exempt such items of equipment as aircraft and aircraft parts, servicing equipment and tractors for towing aircraft. But in respect of goods not so exempted, it is considered that Qantas Airways Ltd should be in the same position as other airlines. Qantas already is liable to Commonwealth taxes other than sales tax. The Bill includes a provision to exempt goods for use, and not for sale, by the Anglo-Australian Telescope Board. The new exemption is supplementary to the Anglo-Australian Telescope Agreement Act 1970 which sets up the Anglo-Australian Telescope Board. This exemption is to commence on the date on which the Anglo-Australian Telescope Agreement Act 1970 will, by proclamation, come into operation. The remaining provisions are of a drafting nature designed to restore certain exemptions related to provisions in the Customs Act. The exemptions were inadvertently Tendered ineffective by amendments to the Customs Act that came into operation on 1st October 1969. It ls proposed that these sales tax amendments should be deemed to have been in operation since that date. T commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Murphy)  adjourned. 
(11.57) - I move: 
That unless otherwise ordered the Senate at its rising tomorrow adjourn until 3 p.m. Monday, 19th October.  1 included the words otherwise ordered' pending the progress that we can make. 
(8.1)  -  I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
With the concurrence of .honourable senators I incorporate in Hansard my second reading speech. 
 This Bill proposes amendments to the income tax law which will have the effect of reinstating income tax deductions for interest on borrowings convertible into share capital, if the borrowings meet specified tests. The income tax law relating to convertible notes was amended in 1960 to withdraw deductions for interest on borrowings convertible into share capital. This was done to protect the revenue against legal tax avoidance. Tn the majority of pre- 1960 issues, companies were using convertible notes simply as a means of reducing their tax payments. On the terms on which convertible issues were commonly being made in Australia before the deduction was withdrawn they amounted to no more than deferred equity issues. Tax deductible interest payments were, in effect, being substituted for non-deductible dividend payments. 
Last year the income tax law on convertible borrowings was reviewed by the Government with a view to restoring tax deductions for interest in certain circumstances. The objective was to revive the use of convertible securities in corporate financing, where that, class of security met the needs of borrowers and lenders and consequently enable companies to raise finance on favourable terms but without, at the same time, reopening the opportunities for exploiting the convertiblity technique purely for tax  saving  purposes. 
In making this review the Government had in mind that convertible borrowings that replace what would otherwise be straight fixed interest borrowings are not in any way objectionable from a revenue standpoint. We also took into account the fact, that this type of borrowing could be a particularly appropriate means of financing development and expansion of Australian resources. During periods of development or expansion a company may not be in a position to declare attractive dividends and, although it may have undeniable prospects, it is at a disadvantage in seeking to raise equity capital and must, therefore, rely upon debt finance. If by appropriate use of the convertible type of security, it can lower the cost of servicing capital until profits are at a level where attractive divi dends can be paid, it might be able to obtain its capital requirements more readily. Under this type of security, Australian investors would not be restricted to fixed interest investment but would have access to equity in the companies concerned. 
From an investor's standpoint, convertible borrowings couple the advantages of a fixed-interest borrowing, in terms of income and security, with the sweetener of being able to convert the borrowing into share capital if the company performs successfully. They can, therefore, be a particularly suitable means of investing in developing companies with good but, to some extent, uncertain prospects for future growth. This feature of them could well provide an opportunity for Australians to acquire equity holdings in overseas-owned ventures, for. example in the extractive industries. 
On completion of the Government's review of the matter last year, it was announced by the Prime Minister on 16th September 1969 that interest on convertible issues made after the law was amended would be deductible for income tax purposes if the terms of the borrowing satisfied a series of tests outlined in his statement. These tests for determining eligibility for the deduction of interest were designed with convertible borrowings raised in Australia, rather than convertible borrowings raised overseas, foremost in mind. Subsequently and particularly in view of the establishment of the Australian Industry Development Corporation - the Government reviewed these tests to ensure that they were also appropriate for overseas convertible borrowings. In order to cater appropriately for convertible borrowings raised overseas, it was found desirable to modify some features of the original plan. We also found it desirable, mainly as a consequence of the revised tests applicable to overseas borrowings, to make some minor changes to the tests as they related to Australian borrowings. 
I turn now to the basic conditions specified in the bill. All of these must be met by a convertible borrowing if interest on it is to be deductible for tax purpose's. The first test is that the option to take up shares which may be shares in the capital of the borrowing company or another company - must rest solely with the lender and not with the company. A normal characteristic of fixed interest finance is, of course, that a lender has the right to receive repayment in cash. This test recognises this feature. At the same time, it will serve to impede legal tax avoidance by companies through their adoption of arrangements calculated to give a deferred share issue the semblance and guise of a fixed interest borrowing. 
The shares that are the subject of this option may be fully paid shares of the company making the convertible issue or of an associated company, such as, for example, a subsidiary or parent company. It will be of no significance whether the shares into which the securities may be converted are issued to, and owned by. a Third Party, or are to be specially allotted to satisfy the exercise of the option to convert. 
Another basic test to be satisfied is that any period of time in which the lender is precluded by the terms of a borrowing from exercising an option to take up shares must not extend for longer than  2  years from the date on which the convertible securities are offered for subscription. The terms of an issue may thus stay the exercise of the option to convert during the first  2  years of the borrowing, but after that initial period the option must be exercisable up to the  12  month period preceding the date of maturity of the borrowing. I mention that the tax consequences will be the same if the option is exercisable at all times during the option period, or at times during that period no more than  12  months apart. In this, we have had in mind to strike a balance between the financial needs and administrative convenience of borrowing companies and the interests of lenders to them. 
Linked with the option provisions I have mentioned is a test that the last date for exercise of the option must in all cases be no later than  10  years after the date of offer of the convertible securities. This span of time is judged sufficient for investment by a company in a development or expansion project to become profitable enough to justify a share issue. 
A further basic condition - but only as to borrowings on the Australian market - is that the borrowing is to have a currency of not less than  7  years. This test is designed to ensure that companies, particularly foreign controlled companies, that issue convertibles on the Australian market, do not prematurely close off a borrowing, and thus the lender's option to acquire shares, before a project's development has reached the point where its future profitability is generally known to Australian investors. Overseas raisings in foreign currency will not, however be subject to this minimum borrowing period condition. The considerations that are felt to make the test appropriate for local convertible borrowings have no relevance to overseas borrowings. 
Of a corresponding nature is the further test that, for convertible notes issued in Australia, the terms and conditions of the borrowing must not vary, but must remain fixed as to interest rates and general conversion terms throughout the period of the borrowing. But for this test, terms and conditions of the borrowing could be manipulated so as to induce Australian lenders to exercise conversion rights earlier or later than might otherwise have been the case. The test is designed to make the lender's choice of whether and when to exercise his option to convert real and not merely illusory. 
This condition has, however, been thought not to be an appropriate one to impose without modification for overseas raisings in foreign currency. It is a feature of certain types of overseas borrowings that provision is made for interest rates payable on the borrowing to vary by reference to identifiable movements in particular international money markets. The Bill provides that changes in interest rates on a convertible borrowing under a provision of this nature will not have adverse taxation consequences in respect of overseas raisings in foreign currency. The Bill also provides that deductibility of interest on such an issue will not be affected if the terms of the borrowing contain features designed to make the conversion terms more attractive the earlier conversion takes place. From a revenue viewpoint, the sooner non-deductible dividends are substituted for deductible interest payments, the better - both the lender's and the borrower's Australian tax payments increase when this happens. 
The final basic condition is common to both local and overseas raisings. This test specifies that the price payable for shares that may be acquired by the lender on the exercise of his option to convert must not be less than either the nominal, that is, the par, value of the shares or 90 per cent of the market price of the same kind of fully paid shares at a prescribed valuation date, whichever is the greater. It is to be noted that this is a floor price and, subject only to the prescribed minimum, the price payable for shares on the exercise of the conversion option is a matter for the company making the convertible issue. 
The Bill sets out the. basis of valuation of shares for the purposes of the conversion price test both for shares quoted on Australian capital city stock exchange and those not so quoted. For quoted shares, the valuation period will ordinarily be the month that ends on the prescribed valuation date, that is, the date that is 6 weeks before the date of offer of the securities for subscription. If the shares were not traded in the month ending on the prescribed valuation date, but were traded in either of the 2 preceding months, the later of the months in which trading took place Will be the valuation period. The value of the shares will be determined as their weighted average market prices on all capital city stock exchanges in the valuation period. 
For unquoted shares, and for quoted shares which have not been traded, the Bill provides that the valuation for purposes of the conversion price test is to be made by a registered company auditor in accordance with criteria specified in the Bill. 
The amendments proposed by the Bill will apply to convertible securities to which subscriptions are made after the legislation receives assent, whether the convertible borrowing is an entirely new one or made to supplant an existing fixed interest-fixed term borrowing. 
Explanations of the technical provisions of the Bill are contained in a comprehensive explanatory memorandum being made available to honourable senators. The conditions proposed for restoring the income tax deduction for interest on convertible borrowings correspond to a large degree with the terms on which convertible securities have in recent times been issued on international markets. The Government feels that the plan resulting from its review of the income tax law as it applies to convertible borrowings will offer worthwhile assistance to new and developing companies and, at the same time, present a barrier . to unwarranted tax savings through companies issuing convertible securities in plain substitution for share issues. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Wilkinson)  adjourned. 
(8.2)  -  I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. With the concurrence of honourable senators I incorporate in Hansard my second reading speech. 
This Bill will declare me general rates of tax for the current financial year 1970-71. As honourable senators know, a Bill of this nature comes before the Senate each year. 
The general rates of tax payable by individuals for the current financial year, as proposed in this Bill, will result in tax reductions - substantial in the lower and middle income ranges - for most taxpayers. As mentioned by the Treasurer in his Budget Speech, the Government has been concerned at the way in which the present graduated rates scale has' operated in a period of rising incomes. One effect has been to shift a growing share of the weight of taxation on to personal income taxpayers. The proposed reduction in personal income tax is one of several measures announced by the Treasurer to alleviate this effect. Another cause for concern was that the increase in the burden of personal income tax was not equally heavy at all income levels. By their nature, the proposed reductions - greater on a percentage basis at the lower end of the scale, tapering off to nil at the higher end of the scale - are aimed at a more equitable distribution of the burden of personal income tax. 
The Bill proposes the retention of the present system, under which the tax payable is the sum of the amount calculated at the general rates and a 2.5 per cent levy. By comparison with the present rates scale, the proposed general rates scale provides reductions of some 10 per cent in tax payable on taxable incomes up to $10,000. On taxable income above $10,000 the percentage reductions in tax taper off, reaching 4.4 per cent at $20,000 and cutting out altogether at $32,000. Since the 2.5 per cent levy is based on the tax otherwise payable, the amount of this levy will be reduced by the same percentage as the reduction in tax at the general rates. 
The proposed reductions in tax payable under the general rates will, of course, also be fully reflected in the tax payable by primary producers to whom the averaging provisions apply and by taxpayers whose rate of tax is based on a notional income. 
The Bill also proposes to liberalise the age allowance provisions in 2 ways. Firstly, the level of taxable income which is completely exempt from income tax, is to be raised. Single aged persons - that is, residents of Australia aged 65 or more for men and 60 or . over for women - previously paid no tax if their taxable income did not exceed $1,300. For 1970-71 the exemption level will be $1,326. A married aged person did not pay tax last year unless the combined taxable income of husband and wife exceeded $2,262. This exemption level will now become $2,314. These increases are in line with the increase in maximum pension rates. 
The second benefit arises from adjustments to the 'shading-in' arrangements, which are designed to ease the change from complete exemption to tax at normal rates. Details of the proposed 'shading-in' rates for those to whom the single person provisions apply are set out in the Sixth Schedule to the Bill and for those to whom the married provisions apply, in the Seventh Schedule. The broad overall effect will be to reduce tax payable by aged persons for 1970-71 with taxable income in the 'shading-in' range by approximately 10 per cent or more as compared with the previous year. 
The proposed reductions in personal income taxation are estimated to have a value to the taxpayers concerned of $289m in a full financial year and $228m in 1970-71. They are reflected in revised scales of tax instalment deductions to be made by employers from salaries or wages paid to employees, with effect from 1st October this year. As a result, many taxpayers will already have received the benefit of greater take-home pay. The reduced rates will also be reflected in amounts of provisional tax payable in respect of the income year ending on 30th June 1971. The changes to the age allowance are estimated to have a value to aged taxpayers of $2m in 1970-71 and $3m in a full year. 
I turn now to the rates of tax payable by companies. The rates of primary tax payable by all companies for the 1970-71 financial year are to be increased by 2.5c in the dollar. In line with the practice that has been followed since the inception of the Commonwealth income tax in 1915, these rates will be imposed in respect of income of the preceding year. As companies are. not on a pay-as-you-earn basis, they pay tax in the year following the year in which the income is derived. Public companies will accordingly pay 42.5c in the dollar on the first $10,000 of taxable income for 1969-70 and 47.5c in the dollar on the balance. Private companies will pay 32.5c in the dollar on the first $10,000 and 42.5c in the dollar on the balance. The rates of tax payable by life assurance companies, co-operative companies and nonprofit companies will also increase by 2.5c in the dollar. The rate of additional tax payable by private companies, which have not distributed sufficient profits as dividends, will remain at 50 per cent. 
In line with the increase in the rates of tax payable by mutual life assurance companies and other life assurance companies in respect of mutual income, the rates of tax payable on the investment income of a superannuation fund that does not invest a sufficient proportion of its assets in public securities, but which would otherwise be exempt from tax, are being increased by 2.5c in the dollar. This change will have effect for the 1970-71 income year of funds affected. 
Apart from the features I have mentioned, the provisions of the Bill generally follow the pattern of previous legislation, and further explanations do not seem necessary at this stage. Technical features of the Bill are explained in the explanatory memorandum which is being circulated. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Wilkinson)  adjourned. 
(8.3) - I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
With the concurrence of honourable senatorsI incorporate in Hansard my second reading speech. 
The purpose of this Bill is to declare the rates of income tax for the financial year 1970-71 on income of certain superannuation funds, trust estates and members of partnerships. 
These are special rates for the purposes of certain anti-avoidance legislation enacted in 1964. Apart from minor changes connected with the increase in the exemption levels of the age allowance proposed by the Income Tax Bill 1970, the Bill follows the same pattern, and declares the same rates, as in recent years. 
A rate of 50 per cent is declared in respect of the income of  a  trust estate, other than a deceased estate, to which no beneficiary is presently entitled and which is not taxed as if it were the income of one individual. 
A similar rate of 50 per cent is declared for the taxable income of  a  superannuation fund that is not exempt from tax. This rate does not apply to the investment income of a superannuation fund that is subject to tax only because of the fund's failure to comply with the '30/20' rule concerning investments in public securities. The rates for the latter class or fund are declared in the Income Tax Bill 1970. 
In relation to income from  a  partnership over which a person lacks, or is deemed to lack, real and effective control and disposal, a rate of further tax sufficient to bring the aggregate rate on the income up to 50 per cent is declared by this Bill. This further tax will not be payable by aged persons whose taxable income does not exceed the new upper limits of the range of income within which the age allowance provides partial relief and which I explained in my speech upon the Income Tax Bill 1970. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Wilkinson)  adjourned. 
 in reply - Honourable senators are debating the Sales Tax Bills (Nos 1 to 9) 1970. One would not have thought so after listening to most of the speeches. With the exception of  Senator Greenwood's  and  Senator Byrne's,  who spoke to the issues of the matter, the rest of the speeches varied from Norfolk Island, to transactions on the stock exchange and every other conceivable subject except sales tax  Senator Keeffe  waxed oratorical on all sorts of imaginary subjects which had no relationship to the Bills at all. It is a fact that this is a sales tax Bill. Most of the speeches have been in the context of a Budget speech, f sent out to find whether  Senator Georges  had spoken during the Budget debate.  Senator Murphy  is not immune to this criticism. He made a second Budget speech. I feel bound to admit that he was provoked by some interjections initially from this side of the chamber. The proposal in this Bill is something within the framework of the Budget. I thought we would have been getting down to a matter of substance on the sales tax - but I suppose this is politics. 
During the debate there has been some trenchant criticism of sales tax, per se, by the Labor Party. As  Senator Greenwood  pointed out it is interesting to note that this tax was introduced by the Scullin Government in 1930. It is true that the rate has increased significantly since then. It is rather odd that we hear from members of the Opposition this strong criticism of sales tax as a means of raising revenue. To my recollection the Labor Party has never voted against a sales tax Bill when it has been brought forward at Budget time. Now it proposes to vote against this sales tax measure. It is almost as though they were crying crocodile tears. As  Senator Georges  has only been here 2 years I suppose be can be excused. Last year he did not vote against the measure. The honourable senator is in a climate in which he is trying to have it both ways. In our hearts we recognise that this is a form of raising revenue. It is used in the indirect sense. It is equally true that on this occasion additional revenue of $29m will be raised. This will continue to be a method of raising revenue. 
As I said when I spoke during the Budget debate, the tendency in the free world today is to move more into the indirect field in terms of revenue raising rather than in the direct sense. As I am looking at  Senator Georges  I remember that he made a great contribution about taxation on earnings over the $10,000 mark. Something like 4,950,000 people pay tax and only 1 per cent of that number have a taxable income of over $10,000. So oratorical remarks we have heard tonight really are not germane to the issue. We all understand these facts. It would not matter whether we were in Government or the Labor Party was in government; sales tax would be imposed. It is a form of raising revenue which is necessary for the administration of government. In fact on this occasion it provides for an increase in revenue of some $29m. 
I do not think I need perpetuate what has been going on all night or to get into a second Budget debate. Let us face it: This is a revenue raising tax - an essential tax for the purpose of raising revenue for Government expenditure. I suggest that the Opposition is making a great mistake on this occasion. As distinct from former occasions, this is simply a Budget item. The Opposition recognises this fact. However, because of some political manoeuvre, perhaps because of a special event to take place on 21st November, the Opposition has decided to make a great spirited effort this time in opposing this Bill and voting against this increase in sales tax. The Opposition has had since 1949 to vote against sales tax. It has not seen the light before and I do not think it is sincere on this occasion. 
Question put: 
That the Bills be now read a second time. 
(10.43)- First of all 1 would say to  Senator Keeffe  that his trouble is that he wants to see a bogy. Because he wants to see a bogy he is prepared to malign everybody who does not want to see the bogy with him. He maligns officers of the Public Service and myself. He takes away their character by inference and by the snide use of words. 

That is not a lie and the honourable senator has proved it by his own words. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - Order!  Senator Keeffe's  remark is offensive. The honourable senator will withdraw it. 


 Senator Keeffe sought some information. I obtained some information for him. That information did not suit him. Therefore he went into this diatribe to which we had to listen. Tomorrow I will have officers of my Department study what he said. I will ask them to disregard all the spurious matters. I will ask them to ascertain whether there are any matters of substance in what he said. If there are, I will provide an additional answer. 
Whilst I am on my feet, if I may, with your permission,  Mr Deputy President,  I wish to mention that at question time today I answered 2 questions asked by  Senator Murphy  about trade with Red China. In my reply I indicated that strategic goods would not be supplied because of a certain procedure. I refered to the United Nations. To the extent that I referred to the United Nations I was completely at fault. I had in mind of course the COCOM list which was issued by the Co-ordinating Committee of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation countries. Because of the pressure of question time, I said 'United Nations'. Actually where I was at fault was that I was confusing the issue with Rhodesia. The United Nations has applied sanctions in relation to Rhodesia. I confused COCOM with the United Nations. I wanted to correct that at the first opportunity. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
by leave - 1 do not doubt the propriety of the actions of the Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances in moving for the disallowance of a regulation. However, the making of a statement following the giving of notice of a motion which an honourable senator proposes to move is something which has concerned me for some time because in such statements reference is often made to the merits or demerits of the motion. This has happened not only in the case of notices of motion which have been given on behalf of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee but also on other occasions. It may be necessary for the Senate - perhaps the Standing Orders Committee - to examine whether, when notice of a motion is given, the honourable senator who gives the notice should remain strictly within the framework of the terms of the motion in doing so. 
I appreciate that the intention of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee on this occasion was to give honourable senators advance knowledge of what it intended to seek in order that their minds could be put to consideration of the matter. However, J. believe that it is a departure from the concept of giving notice of a motion if: it is followed by a statement, lt is true that the honourable senator sought leave to make a statement. However, it is often not known at the time leave is sought what is going to be said. Leave is usually granted as a matter of courtesy. I believe that the notice of motion should stand on ils own right. If an honourable senator so desires he can circulate outside of the Senate or table in the Senate the facts of his case for giving notice of a motion. The substance of the proposed motion would then be a matter for debate. Here we have a situation in which a case has been stated and there can be no response at the time the case is stated. 

 Senator DEVITT (Tasmania)- by leaveThe Committee had not any guidance from the Standing Orders as to what it ought to do and it thought, in the absence of any specific procedure, that the proper action to take would be to present the submission that I have made at the time of giving the notice of motion so that all honourable senators would have an opportunity of knowing the grounds of recommendation for disallowance. The Committee does not take lightly the disallowance of a regulation, lt realises that this is something which has to be considered very carefully. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI am talking about the procedure. I am not discussing the merits of the motion for disallowance. 
(11.32)- I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to extend the operation of the Gold-Mining Industry Assistance Act without amendment for a further 3 years from 1st July 1970. The Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  announced in his Press statement on 23rd June that it was the Government's intention to introduce legislation with this object. The Gold-Mining Industry Assistance Act was introduced in 1954 against a background of a fixed official price for gold, which still applies, and of rising costs of production. Its purpose was mainly to assist the Kalgoorlie community which has been heavily dependent on gold mining. Approximately $2Sm has been paid to gold producers by way of subsidy since the inception of the Act. This assistance has been' supplemented by a complete exemption from income tax on profits from gold mining. 
Although employment by gold producers in Kalgoorlie has fallen in recent years, there has been no lack of alternative employment opportunities and the total population of the town has increased, mainly because of nickel discoveries and the exploration activity they have generated. Representatives of the gold mining industry requested continuation of assistance at increased rates of subsidy. After careful consideration of these proposals, and of recent developments in employment and business activity in Kalgoorlie, the Government has decided that continued assistance is justified in order to allow the present gold mining activity in Kalgoorlie to continue to phase out gradually without disruption to the population and the economy of the area. The Government considers that these objectives would be met by continuation of assistance for a further 3 years without alteration of the maximum rates of subsidy - $8 an ounce for large producers. Payments of subsidy in 1970-71 are expected to total $3.4m. The increase of $1.5m over total payments in 1969-70 is largely because of a decline in premiums on free market sales. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Cant)  adjourned. 
(1.1.48)  -  There has been some speculation as to the amount of. revenue which may be involved as a result of this legislation. The Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Colton)  has said that he is seeking information in relation to this matter. Lest there should be any misconception about the implications of sales tax, it should be. borne in mind that aircraft, aircraft parts, servicing equipment and tractors for towing aircraft are exempt from sales tax and that aircraft fuels and lubricants also are exempt. So it is not as though a sales tax is to be applied completely across the board; it is to be applied in a very restrictive field. We heard reference last night to the amount that would be involved as a result of this' legislation, but the Minister has said that in his view the amount will be much less than the figure suggested. We are not yet aware of how much will be involved. But that is a matter which must be looked at in the context that Qantas Airways Ltd is a successful and profitable company, albeit a government owned company. There has been no suggestion that this proposal will have any real effect upon Qantas, its competitive capacity, its skill or its ability to operate successfully in the aircraft industry. 
(3.52)  -  f agree with the view that  Senator Murphy  has expressed in response to  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack's request. Certain elements influence this matter, particularly when a joint committee wishes to sit while the House is sitting. There is a grey area which I would hope to sort out in the next 24 hours. I think it is quite appropriate that  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack's Committee should sit this afternoon, as would bc the case with any other committee which has work to do, has a quorum, and is not involved with the Estimates Committees. Meanwhile, I will have discussions on a couple of aspects of the matter which may cut across what we generally agree upon today. 
 I do not believe that a resolution of the Senate is required. I think  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack and his Committee would be entitled to sit this afternoon if they so desired. 
(5.8) - I enter into this debate because of some statements made by  Senator Willesee.  He accuses us of some Machiavellian plan to gag the debate. The fact of the matter, as has been stated by  Senator Willesee  himself and certainly by  Senator Murphy,  is that this motion was put down in this place on Friday last. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONNotice was given on Thursday and it appeared on Friday. 

Thank you. 1 am making the speech. I answered the interjection. The fact of the matter is that this debate came to a crisis today because  Senator Drake-Brockman  asked for leave to continue his remarks at a later stage, and that leave was given.  Senator Willesee  talks about how long he has been here. He has been here a long time, and I think he would agree that there is a tradition in relation to these things, that is, that debates can be adjourned. When we are dealing with a Bill it is quite normal for the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  or his delegate to move that the debate be adjourned, and the motion is agreed to. In certain circumstances the debate is adjourned for a week to enable the Australian Labor Party to consider the matters in Caucus. 

That is in relation to any subject. This is a tradition. Yet the Opposition talks about a gag, a deliberate machiavellian plot to gag the debate. We have before us a motion to set up a committee. This resolution was put down before the Senate adjourned at the end of last week, and the matter came on today in accordance with the Standing Orders. 

That is right. That was done completely in accordance with the practice and procedures that arc provided for here and also in the mother of Parliaments where there is a reasonable intention that a debate will bc adjourned.  Senator Drake-Brockman  leads for the Government in the Senate in debates concerned with primary industry matters. He sought leave to continue his remarks at a later stage, and leave was granted. To suggest that this amounts to a gag would mean that every time  Senator 
Murphy moved for the adjournment of a debate 1 or somebody who sits behind me could say: 'Look, this is only an attempt to avoid a debate or an issue. Therefore we are going to put on a turn.' And what a discreditable turn we saw this afternoon. I just make the point that what happened today was in the tradition of the Parliament. 
Let us come to the second matter. I do not want to debate the subject matter of the motion. 1 have to be very careful here and to steer reasonably far away from it. This is a proposal to make a reference to a standing committee, which already has a reference on its plate pursuant to a resolution of this Senate. Whether we deal with this matter at 8 o'clock tonight or whether we deal with it at the next day of sitting is of no consequence.  Senator Murphy,  above all other people, knows that thai is so. Tonight we are to debate the provisions of the Income Tax Assessment Bill, and the debate will be broadcast. It concerns the proposal to give taxation rebates to 4.9 million people. This is a most embarrassing situation for the Labor Party. If we do not proceed with that debate at 8 o'clock we will have to go on with some other matter. It is of no consequence whether the matter now before us is debated tonight or tomorrow or next week. Of course, it will have to be next week at the latest. I suggest with great respect that if there is any plan to be devious, it would be on the part of the Labor Party in seeking to avoid a debate on our taxation measure. Contrary to what has happened here today, when  Senator Murphy  moves for the adjournment of a debate on a Bill or some other matter after making his speech - he does this by virtue of his office - I will grant him leave to do so. I will not put on a performance the like of which we have seen here today. 
by leave - As  1  have indicated already to  Senator Murphy  at another level I am perfectly happy to work out a programme. But in truth one cannot work out a programme if one does not know what the work load is. We are a House  of  review and because of this we bave to wait until messages come here. It is very difficult to sit down and say that we are going to allocate certain times. This morning we have messages on the table and there are still a number to come.  1  am rather hoping that before the end of the day we will have a fair understanding  of  the anticipated workload. At that point  of  time I think it will be proper to work out some sort  of  loose arrangement - I accept that it has to be a loose arrangement - which will attempt to time our work in the expectation and desire to conclude our business at the end of next week. I have a series of times drafted ready for when we can face up to this matter. My proposal will certainly make some variation in times of sitting so that we can gain an extra number of hours as we have done in the past. 
We have entered into arrangements previously to have certain sittings in good faith. But we are not the executive House. Our behaviour in terms of time is influenced by what happens in another place. Since we are the House of review we have to wait until we receive messages before we can review. That is the difficulty. Only at a later hour of the day will I be in some position to talk to the leaders of the parties and, in the context of that talk, to invite the Whips to try to work out some programme. When we have worked out that programme it will be reasonably secure for management. Provision has to be made for the rights of honourable senators opposite in relation to all matters which they may wish to raise. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONNo. It is absolutely essential that we sit on Monday. Honourable senators have spoken about having to sit all hours and  Senator Mulvihill  talked about an infamous occasion. If, by common consent, we are going to finish next week and we do not want to legislate by exhaustion into the hours of the morning it is absolutely essential that we sit on Monday. I have suggested 3 o'clock on Monday because I recognise honourable senators may have difficulty in returning here from their homes. I will be putting down a motion that on the subsequent days we start at 10 o'clock in the morning. But I will come to that. In response to  Senator Murphy  I say: Yes, we will work out a loose arrangement at a time when we know what our work load factor is. Having worked it out with a degree of co-operation we have a reasonable prospect of working to it. Meanwhile the motion provides that we commence next Monday at 3 p.m. 
For the information of honourable senators I present the text of a trade agreement, dated 21st July 1970, between the Government of the Commonwealth of Australia and the Government of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. A statement by the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen)  accompanies the trade agreement and I ask for leave to incorporate the statement in Hansard. 
(3.57)  -  I move: 
That, unless otherwise ordered, the days and times of meeting of the Senate this week be as follows: 

<graphic href="046232197010263_12_2.jpg"></graphic>

Thai, unless otherwise ordered, the sessional order relating to the adjournment of the Senate have effect at 11 p.m. each day. 
If there is to be a debate on this motion I do not mind standing it over until tomorrow, but I understand that the Government Whip has circulated copies of this to the Opposition and to the Democratic Labor Party and if we can dispose of it today I would be happy to do so. If there is to be any disputation about it I would be happy to stand it over until tomorrow for further discussion by the Parties. 
(10.37) - This Bill proposes to renew the subsidy to the gold mining industry for a period of 3 years from 1st July this year. It is completely wrong for  Senator Cant  to suggest that there could be any further delay in the passage of this Bill because the subsidy ceased on 1st July this year. Pending the passage of this legislation the subsidy has been met through the normal Treasury provisions. It is true, as  Senator Cant  says, that as this is a money Bill it cannot be amended in this place and there-, fore if the Opposition does not like the Bill it will have to vote against it. I would find it hard to believe that it would vote against the Bill because a subsidy will be paid at the rate of $8 per ounce for the next 3 years from 1st July this year. 
The argument used by  Senator Cant  is that because the subsidy is to be continued at the same rate it spells disaster for Kalgoorlie. The fact of the matter is, as is stated in the second reading speech, that there has been no lack of alternative employment opportunities and the total population of the town has increased. Therefore the argument that any continuation of the subsidy at the present level means disaster for Kalgoorlie is not proven. To the contrary, the activities in Kalgoorlie in other avenues of mining and the continuation of the gold mining industry are a rebuttal of the argument which the honourable senator put to the Senate this evening. It is true that North Kalgurli and, I think. Great Boulder mines do not have a great life expectancy. But there is no suggestion that Lake View and Star and the gold miners of Kalgoorlie have not gold to mine and gold to win for the life and beyond the life of the proposed subsidy. Therefore it seems to me to be quite wrong to imagine that because the representations to increase the subsidy have not been approved it means disaster for the gold mining industry which is still there. 

I give the meaning to the words that the words say. This Bill does provide for an opportunity for a phasing out, a slowing down if you like- 

To allow it to phase out but that does not mean it has to. It does not mean that it is forced to be phased out. If, for instance, it is economic to continue and the gold is still there to be won a commercial judgment will be made. Having regard to what is known, particularly in relation to Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie, the output could easily well go beyond the 3-year proposal. 
Some reference has been made to the question of review. Reference has been made by  Senator Cant  to the words uttered by a Minister in another place representing the Treasurer- There is no mystique about the words. In a letter to the Premier of Western Australia the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  said: 
The subsidy legislation will expire in less than 3 years- and that is the reference because it is dated back to 1st July -  and the situation will be reviewed by the Commonwealth before then. 
This is the norma] procedure in relation to subsidies or bounties. 
The Minister does say that and he says other words as well. 

The honourable senator is taking words out of context. He went on to say that if there were any change of circumstance which would justify some further consideration or some new consideration during the life of the subsidy that would have to be considered. All in all this is a subsidy which is to continue for a further 3 years. The subsidy has been in existence since 1954. lt is quite evident from the study and research that has been done that the population of 22.000 in Kalgoorlie is not likely to decrease. Indeed al) the portents are that it will increase and it will increase in the field of mining and there will be gainful opportunities for those people who live in the area. In those circumstances I would think - and I. think any reasonable person would think - that to continue the subsidy in the context in which it has been continued is a reasonable and  proper  thing to do. 

 Senator Cant himself said that in addition to the subsidy there was complete exemption from income tax on profits from gold mining. I understand that the taxation on company profits is now 47i per cent which is not an inconsiderable amount of tax rebate having regard to all the circumstances. The gold mining companies are in business to make a profit. I could not follow the basis of the argument about individual taxation because wherever one works if one has a taxable income one has to pay tax whether one is in Kalgoorlie, or in any other city or suburb of the Commonwealth. But here is a circumstance in which the bounty is being continued. It will be continued for a further period of 3 years on the same terms and conditions. The employment opportunities in Kalgoorlie are improving and no case has been made for an increase in the sub sidy. For that reason 1 would suggest that a speedy passage of this legislation would be completely and absolutely justified. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages with tut amendment or debate. 
(9.0)  -  I move- 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I ask for leave to incorporate in Hansard the second reading speech and accompanying documents which it is not possible to read. 
(11.2) - I move: 
That the Bm  bc now  read  a second time. 
With the concurrence of honourable senators, I incorporate my speech in Hansard. I have explained the background to this Bill in my second reading speech on the Australian Film Development Corporation Bill. By this Bill the Parliament will fix the salary for the Director of the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority. The salary of the Director will be $11,822 a year. This is the same as the salar)' for officers at Level I in the Second Division of the Public Service. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Willesee)  adjourned. 
(11.1)  -  I move: 
That the Bm be now read a second time. 
With the concurrence of honourable senators, I incorporate my speech in Hansard. 1 have explained the background to this Bill in my second reading speech on the Australian Film Development Corporation Bill. By this Bill the Parliament will fix a salary for the Assistant Directors of the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation at the rate of $15,592 a year, lt is not necessary at this stage to determine the salary for the Director of the Corporation. This is because the duties of the position of Director will for the time being be carried out by the person holding the office of 
Commissioner of the Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Authority. The Bill lays down that any salary payable to the Director will be as the Parliament provides. An appropriate further Bill will have to be introduced when the need arises to determine a salary for the Director. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Willesee)  adjourned. 
(1 1.0)  -  I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
With the concurrence of honourable senators, 1 incorporate my speech in Hansard. ] have explained the background to this Bill in my second reading speech on the Australian Film Development Corporation Bill. By this Bill the Parliament will fix the salaries for the Commissioner, and any Acting Commissioner, of the Export Payments Insurance Corporation. The salary of the Commissioner is fixed al $16,931 a year. The salary for the Acting Commissioner is the same - $16,931. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Willesee)  adjourned. 
(3.24)  -  We have just heard the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  make a contribution which is really the next day's hash of the previous day's meal in the other place. A proposal was submitted in the other place yesterday which was almost identical in terms to the one submitted here today. Certainly the debate there was a little wider. That proposal having been rubbished a little in the other place,  Senator Murphy  was very careful to narrow down the proposal he submitted here. I invite honourable senators to analyse what he said. This Parliament has debated the problem and has made a contribution to its solution in the form of trade practices legislation.  Senator Murphy's  speech was an assault on the States for not having passed complementary legislation. Having regard to the profession to which  Senator Murphy  belongs he would know that in a debate of this kind he first needs to prove his case in terms of his actual resolution. 
He talked in glib terms, smacked the table and made a lot of noise about price rigging and other harmful practices. But in fact not one single case did he bring before us. lt was melodrama. For a moment I almost thought he was a candidate for the next Senate election. Perhaps I am being a bit cynical in making that comment. I withdraw it because, after all, he is the Leader of the Opposition and he is entitled to make his case. The truth of the matter is that this is an example of a motion which was debated in another place. Now it comes up here the second time around. 1 invite anybody here and anybody who is listening in to analyse what was said.  Senator Murphy  presented an emotional case. He would know even better than I that because of constitutional difficulties there is a need for complementary legislation to be passed by the States. Most of the States have not been prepared to provide that legislation because of cases taken to court such as the Cascade Brewery case in Tasmania which was an appeal against the law.  Senator Murphy  blames this Government for some sinister delay. We are accused of being part of a machiavellian plot not to persist with this legislation. He therefore suggests that we are terrible people. 
Reference was made to the fact that we are members of the Liberal-Country Party coalition and it was said that the LiberalCountry Party coalitions in the States must come out of the same pot. lt is not unknown for the Australian Labor Party to have a couple of differences about coming out of the same pot. I refer to Victoria. It is a pretty shallow argument when the chicken comes home to roost in Victoria to talk about 'once a Liberal always a Liberal', whether it be in the Commonwealth or the State sphere. I think the principle goes a bit deeper in Victoria where 'once a Labor man' is obviously not a case of 'always a Labor man'. I think the Leader of the Opposition put forward a pretty thin argument. Since  Senator Murphy  did not give us any particularity about the unjustified price increases except by referring to price rigging and other harmful practices perhaps I should look at what he might have said. We have had some information about price increases and in more recent times questions have been asked about the increases in terms of the inflation problem. None of us would deny that there have been some inflationary tendencies and that this Government has taken action to steady the economy. The Labor Party does not agree with the procedures which were taken to steady the economy in the budgetary sense. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI ask the honourable senator not to anticipate me because I am about to demonstrate that point. I notice that the more honourable senators on the other side are hurt the more they start to yap. Courtesy demands that I should be heard, just as  Senator Murphy  was heard. The lynch pin for the motion was price increases. Leaving aside trade practices, the Government has taken legislative and Executive action to stem what it recognised as an inflationary trend. The first action it took was in relation to liquidity. Everybody knows - the Australian Labor Party knows as well as we do, but it is not political for its members to recognise it - that liquidity has a vital influence on an economy. The action taken in relation to the bank rate clearly was intended to slow down the liquidity and to cool down the economy to some extent because it was getting overheated. I do not have to state this to demonstrate that inflationary trends in Australia have tended to slacken. 
This motion would have had a lot more validity, if it had any at all, if it were not introduced in the atmosphere of a coming Senate election and if the Senate were not 3 or 4 days away from the time of lifting, perhaps - who knows - but 12 months ago. Statistics published recently by the Commonwealth Bureau of Census and Statistics disclosed a drop in the price spiral. I quote from the Bureau's report which was released in the Press on 20th October 1970, which is not so long ago. It was reported that the rate of increase in retail prices had slowed in the September quarter. The September rise for the 6 State capitals was 0.6 per cent against rises in the previous quarters of 1.3 per cent, 1 per cent and 0.8 per cent. The Sydney increase was 0.9 per cent against 1.4 per cent in the previous quarter and 1.6 per cent in the quarter previous to that. 
It shows that the rise has slowed by comparison to the rise in previous quarters. There can be no doubt that the economy has been stabilised, quite contrary to what  Senator Murphy  said. This has happened in a climate of full employment. We have achieved this result in a most difficult climate. The unemployment problem is world wide. The number of Australians unemployed is less than 1 per cent of our work force. Australia is a primary producing country and the population moves because of seasonal employment. Australia, a primary producing country, has that enviable employment record, whereas other countries in the free world have unemployment figures as high as 4 per cent and 5 per cent and even higher. The rate of increase in the price of commodities in those countries is much higher than the rate of increase in the price of commodities in Australia. One does not walk away from the problem. We recognise that it is a problem and the Government has not defaulted in relation to these issues. The Budget, which the Australian Labor Party has opposed so vigorously and is continuing to oppose, was calculated to have a steadying influence on the economy. There has been no validity in some of the arguments that have been put. Incorporated in the Budget was a tremendous taxation concession of about $240m for this year or about $280m in a full year. That concession was to be given to no less than 5 million people. What did the Labor Party do? It moved to have the relevant Bill withdrawn. The effect of having the Bill withdrawn would have been to defeat it. 
The honourable senator cannot walk away from his responsibilities in this place. The 
Opposition voted against the Bill, if it bad succeeded, the Bill would have been defeated. 

The Opposition voted against the second reading of the Bill. If 1 am wrong in that statement, I will withdraw it. The Opposition moved an amendment that the Bill be withdrawn. If that amendment had been carried, the Bill would have disappeared. Honourable senators opposite should not kid themselves that the amendment meant anything else. The Budget was calculated to have a steadying influence on the economy. The Opposition has moved amendments to almost every consequential Bill. The amendments, if carried, would have had the effect of stopping the Bills or of referring them to committees. In some instances, they cast judgments against the proposals. 
I do not believe that a case has been made by  Senator Murphy.  He would have been far better off if he had made a straight out attack on the Trade Practices Act.  Senator Murphy  would have a fairly good understanding of the legal implications of that Act. He would know that our federal system made the application of the legislation very difficult. Nobody would deny that the Act has been challenged in the courts. I think it was only in very recent times that a decision was given in the Tasmanian case. About 80 per cent or 90 per cent of  Senator Murphy's  case was a criticism of the States for not passing complementary legislation. That is a decision for the States. To tie to that handle a criticism that the Government has done nothing to curb inflation is to deny and not to recognise what has been done by the Budget, by Executive action in relation to interest rates and a whole scries of proposals, by the very careful examination of expenditure and by the direction of assistance particularly to rural industries. All these matters have been calculated to steady any inflationary trends. 
I think that Opposition senators, in their hearts, recognise that action has been taken. I think they recognise the problem. I believe that they accept that the Commonwealth has done a far better job than has any other country to solve this world wide problem. If that statement hurts them, I am sorry, but it is a fact of life. Not only this country but the whole world has to face the problem of falling prices for primary products. We are a young country still. We take over 120,000 migrants a year. We find full and gainful employment for our people. Our employment rate is better than that of any other country. That is the achievement which we have to consider. Added to that, we have been able to contain and hold the price factor. As I said in my speech on the Budget, whilst it is true that the consumer price index has risen, it is also true that average weekly incomes have risen by a far greater percentage. I shall not quote my speech at length because honourable senators have heard it before. I appreciate that some honourable senators do not agree with what I had to say. Nevertheless, 1 shall refer to my speech to establish a point. [ had incorporated in Hansard a table showing the consumer price index and average weekly earnings in various years. I refer to page 615 of the Senate Hansard of Wednesday, 1. 6th September 1970. The consumer price index was 106 in 1968-69, which represented a percentage increase on the previous year of 2.6. The average weekly earnings in the same year were $68.90, which represented a percentage increase on the previous year of 7.2. Let us examine the figures for the next year. In 1969-70 the consumer price index was 109.4, which represented a percentage increase on the previous year of 3.2. The average weekly earnings were $75, which represented a percentage increase on the previous year of 8.9. 1 have the statistics in front of me. I challenge honourable senators opposite to nominate a year and I will give the figures for it. We all recognise that there has been an increase in the cost of living. The fact of the matter is that in 1969-70 the average weekly earnings increased by 8.9 per cent but the consumer price index increased by only 3.2 per cent. 
The honourable senator would be aware that profit ratios vary. I suppose it would be a different matter if there was price control. 1 have been asked a lot of questions on price control. In his contribution to the debate  Senator Murphy  did not suggest price control would be the answer, although some of his colleagues in the Senate have referred to it before. I suspect that before this debate goes much further it will be raised again. All I would say is that price control is not the answer to the problem. It has been demonstrated throughout the world that price control is not the answer to the problem. 
A few moments ago  Senator Murphy  made some reference to the actions of Labor governments. It is significant that the Labor governments which have been in office in the States in recent years have not suggested price control as the solution to the problem. Being blood brothers, these Labor governments would have had the same philosophy as  Senator Murphy.  The fact of the matter is that price control has not been introduced because it has been demonstrated that if it is to be effective it is necessary to have absolute price control over not only commodities but also wages and everything else. The classic or ideal time to impose price control was during the war years when the country was in a state of national emergency and the Commonwealth Government had far greater powers without legal and constitutional barriers to overcome. However, it would not work even under those conditions. A good many of us were not in Australia during the war years; we were somewhere else, but those who were here - our friends, parents and loved ones - have told us of the farce which went on in relation to price control. Those of us who came back after the war will recall the farce in the early post-war years. Everything one wanted was under the counter or behind the curtain. 
Price control is not the answer. The answer is along the lines of the actions of the Government. The Government is striving for productivity, which is the answer to the problem. Increased wages and, indeed, reduced hours would be quite acceptable if matched by increased productivity, but if YOU do not have increased productivity they spell disaster. This is where the Government parts from the Opposition. The Opposition does not have the capacity to understand that you have to be able to produce. If wages are increased without a corresponding increase in productivity inflation will occur. A reduction of 5 hours in the working week, which the Australian Labor Party is pledged to support, without increased productivity and everything which goes with it, would be the greatest contribution possible to galloping inflation. 

 Senator Murphy's case was built around criticism of the application of the Trade Practices Act. Almost the whole of his speech was based on the fact that the States have not passed complementary legislation and, as a result, they have tended to stultify the application of the provisions of this Act. I do not think  Senator Murphy  has told the complete story. An Act of Parliament which deals with certain aspects of trade has been passed and is in force. I think honourable senators will agree with me that those who are responsible for administering the Trade Practices Act have demonstrated that the existence of the Act has had a salutary effect on some - it would be silly to suggest all - restrictive trade practices, f believe that collusive tendering will be almost a thing of the past as a result of this Act. I know that collusive tendering has occurred. We have seen examples of it. I conclude by saying that the case which has been put up by  Senator Murphy  is. not valid. 
(8.23)  -  I intercede very briefly to make a couple of observations. The first observation deals with a statement that I made earlier this year. I repeat it because  Senator Cavanagh  adverted to an unfortunate incident that happened on the first occasion that the Estimates Committees sat. In one committee there was some misunderstanding. As the Leader of the Government in the Senate and because I had some responsibility, although it was not the committee with which I was involved, I expressed regrets to  Senator Cavanagh  for what happened. I would have thought that that was where the matter should have ended. As I said before and as I say again, anybody who attempts to do something different or any organisation that embarks on a new concept or plan inevitably has problems at the outset. It would be a strange world if we had perfection from the start. The 
Chairmen of the Committees have said that the Committees worked well. 1 believe that everybody worked well. It is regrettable that some senators did not attend meetings of the Committees. I think that, if they had, they would have been able to make a very real contribution to our studies. It would have been of value not only to them but collectively to all of us. Perhaps next time we deal with Estimates Committees at this level they will attend. 
The final matter to which 1 wish to refer - and I think it is significant - is that normally when we deal with the Estimates as a Committee of the Whole we take between 42 and 46 hours. Already, before the Estimates are dealt with by the Committee of the Whole., the Estimates Committees have sat for 74i hours. In that time a tremendous amount of probing has been done and a tremendous amount of valuable information has been gleaned. As a result I think all of us will be better for it and able to do a better job. If the 74$ hours that has been taken on the Estimates is added to the time that will be spent by the Committee of the Whole, that will give a fair idea of the amount of work that senators are doing, as is our responsibility, in an examination of the Estimates. I think we can be very proud of the work that has been done so far by the Estimates Committees. 
by leave - The statement 1 am about to make was made by the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen)  in the House of Representatives. Honourable senators will understand that when I use the first person personal pronoun it refers to the Minister for Trade and Industry. The statement  h  as follows: Last night the Chancellor of the Exchequer announced the intention of the British Government to introduce a system of levies on the imports of a number of agricultural commodities. I received advance notice of this late on Monday. The products concerned are beef and veal, mutton and lamb, cereals and milk powders, condensed milk and cream. These products now all enter the United Kingdom free of duty as a right under our trade agreement with Britain. The trade agreement is terminable by 6 months notice by either side. 
The British say that the main objective in imposing a levy system on imports is to reduce the claims on public expenditure caused by their present subsidy system for supporting their agricultural industry, lt is clear to me that this is a deliberate move to adapt their arrangements in view of their prospective membership of the European Economic Community when they would be adopting the Common Agricultural Policy of the EEC. Indeed the British have said that this is one of the reasons for the introduction of the system of levies. 
I need not remind the House of my views on the variable levy system of CAP as a disruptive element in international trade. The British have asked us to join with them in talks on the commodities of interest to Australia. I have arranged for a Deputy Secretary of the Department of Trade and Industry, suitably supported, to go to London immediately to attend these talks. 
The British Government will introduce the new measures when its discussions with overseas suppliers have been completed. In any case the objective is to bring them into operation at least by 1st April 1971. The British proposals have very important implications for our future trade and trading relations; so I will briefly describe them as I understand them. 
The British Government proposes to impose variable levies on imports of fresh, frozen and chilled beef and veal. In the case of mutton and lamb, it is the British intention to impose a specific rate of duty. The final impact of these new levies on trade will, of course, not be known until the details of the British proposals have been worked out and are in operation. 
In the case of cereals, initially it is proposed that the present minimum import prices will be raised as soon as possible by some 25 per cent. Under the present arrangements, any individual country which supplies wheat below the specified minimum prices attracts a levy. However, it is also now proposed by the British that on 1st July next their cereals system will be brought into line with the variable levy mechanism of the EEC Common Agricultural Policy. This will mean that all wheat landed in Britain after that date will attract a levy based on the lowest price cm offer for sale in that market irrespective of country of origin. In Other words, our wheat could attract a levy as a result of the marketing policies of countries such as the eastern Europeans or other minor producers who come into the market only periodically to dispose of surplus production. 
In the case of the powdered and condensed milks and creams, the British intend to set up minimum import prices supported by variable levies. Our present trade in these products is small but the British proposal represents a further restriction on the already difficult dairy product market. 
There is one thing which stands out starkly when looking at the British proposals. This is that for the first time the Australian products concerned will be faced with real barriers to trade in this traditional market outlet. The British action will cut across the trade agreement that Australia has with Britain. This agreement is the very basis of the trade relations between us. Under this agreement, first negotiated in 1932 and reviewed in 1957. the British Government undertakes to give free entry to imports from Australia for these and most other products. As soon as a duty - be it fixed, as will be the case of mutton and lamb, or variable, as will be the case for the other products - is struck against imports from Australia this will be a breach of this undertaking for free entry. 
The Australian Government will be carefully studying the implications of the British proposals as we now understand them and as they are elaborated during the forthcoming talks in London. We will, of course, be taking a hard look at the balance of benefits under our trade agreement with Britain. We will assess at the appropriate time what adjustment to Australia's obligations under the agreement is required to restore the balance of advantage. 
(10.46) - I move: 
That the  Bill be now read  a  second time. 
The purpose of this Bil! is to appropriate the amounts required for expenditure in 1970-71 from the Consolidated Revenue Fund other than those amounts provided by special appropriations and the Appropriation Bill (No. 2) 1970-71. The amounts sought for each department are shown in detail in the Second Schedule to the Bill, the sum of these amounts being $2,587,171,000. This Bill seeks an appropriation of $1,474,169,000, the balance of 1,113,002,000 having already been granted under the Supply Act (No. 1) 1970-71. 
The expenditure proposals of the Government were outlined in the Budget speech and the details included in the Schedule to this Bill have already been examined under the procedure whereby the Senate has taken note of the amounts included in the document 'Particulars of Proposed Expenditure for the Service of the Year ending 30th lune 1971' and referred them to the estimates committees for examination and report. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator O'Byrne)  adjourned. 
(10.47) - I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to provide for expenditure from the Consolidated Revenue Fund in 1970-71 on: 
the construction of public works and buildings; 
the acquisition of sites and buildings; 
items of plant and equipment which are clearly definable as capital expenditure; 
grants to the States under section 96 of the Constitution; 
new policies not authorised by special legislation; and 
advances and loans. 
Details of the amounts sought by each department are shown in the Second Schedule to the Bill, the sum of these amounts being $701,470,000. An appropriation of $479,713,000 is sought in this Bill, the balance of $221,757,000 having already been granted under the Supply Act (No. 2) 1970-71. The main points regarding the proposed expenditure were dealt with in the Budget Speech. The Schedule to the Bill is the same as that contained in the document 'Particulars of Proposed Provision for Certain Expenditure in respect of the year ending 30 June 1971' which has already been examined in some detail by the Senate estimates committees. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator O'Byrne)  adjourned. 
(10.58)- I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This measure together with the Export Payments Insurance Corporation Bill (No. 2), the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation Bill (No. 2) and the Stevedoring Industry (Temporary Provisions) Bill (No. 2) all relate to similar matters. I suggest that we might take each Bill separately to the adjournment stage and then debate them as one measure. I do not think we can reach this stage tonight but if the Senate is prepared to sit a few minutes longer we will be able to get to the adjournment stage on each Bill. With the concurrence of honourable senators I incorporate my second reading speech in Hansard. 
The purpose of this Bill is to provide for the fixing of remuneration for members of the Australian Film Development Corporation. Honourable senators will recall that during the autumn sittings of the Parliament 7 Bills were amended by this House or in another place. The purpose of the amendments was to provide that salaries or remuneration for the relevant holders of statutory offices would be 'as the Parliament provides' rather than by determination of the Governor-General. For 3 of these Bills, it was possible to meet the requirement that Parliament rather than the Government determine the salary by inclusion of provision in the Schedule to the Appropriation Bill, which has recently been before this House. I mention, for example, the remuneration of members of the Metric Conversion Board. However, a provision of this kind was not appropriate for 4 of the Acts amended during passage last May and June. This is because the 4 bodies created by the Acts meet their administrative expenses, including salaries, from funds which under the terms of the legislation are under their own control and are not provided directly or annually from the Consolidated Revenue Fund. 
Accordingly, it would not be practicable to fix and appropriate the relevant salaries or remuneration in the Schedule to the annual Appropriation Acts. The Bill now under consideration - the Australian Film Development Corporation Bill - provides that section 8 of the Act is to be amended so as to specify the rates of remuneration for members of the Corporation. This means that the Parliament itself, rather than the Government, is determining the rate for members of the Corporation. The new provision will apply to all payments - payments, that is, of sitting fees - to members of the Corporation, thereby making it unnecessary to promulgate the regulations which were to have provided the remuneration until 1st January next year. 
The fees which it is the sole purpose of this Bill to authorise are, for the  Chairman  of the Film Development Corporation, $40 for a meeting of 3 hours or more and $25 if the meeting lasts less than 3 hours. Other members of the Corporation are to be paid $35 for a meeting of 3 hours or more, $20 if it takes under 3 hours. I add that I propose to introduce immediately following this Bill 3 further Bills which have the same object. In these cases also, the amendments made by the Parliament during May and June are such that the salaries required can only be paid after 1st January next if the Parliament has in some way provided for the payment. The 3 further Bills are the Export Payments Insurance Corporation Bill (No. 2) 1970, the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation Bill (No. 2) 1970, and the Stevedoring Industry (Temporary Provisions) Bill (No. 2) 1970. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Willesee)  adjourned. 
by leave - I am not closing the debate. Honourable senators can speak after I have finished if they want to, although I do not think there will be any purpose in thendoing so. What I have done is in the tradition of what is always done at this time. It gives flexibility to the Leader of the Government because of what may emerge later on.  Senator Kennelly  has probably been in the Senate longer than most honourable senators. But to hear him speak a few minutes ago one would have thought he had never been in Parliament in his life. He knows that this is a procedure to give flexibility. The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  has said that the Australian Labor Party is not ready to proceed with the Bill. Therefore I ask  Senator DrakeBrockman  to amend his motion so that the debate will be resumed on the next day of sitting. 
Motion (by  Senator DrakeBrockman)by  leave - agreed to: 
That the resumed debate be made an order of the day for the next day of sitting. 
(10.38) - in reply - I thank the Senate for the speedy passage of these measures. I think the most practical thing to do now is to put them to the vote.I understand the Opposition will oppose the second readings of this cognate legislation. 
Question put: 
Thatthe  Bills be now read a secondtime. 
(12.3)  -  I move: 
That the Bil) be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to give effect to the new arrangements settled at the Premiers Conference in June for the payment of financial assistance grants to the States over the 5 years commencing with 1970-71. These arrangements are to replace those that have operated since 1965 and were given effect to in the States Grants Act 1965 as amended. As the financial assistance grants finance about one-half of the current Budget outlays of the States, they are a very important factor in determining the standard of services provided by State governments. They are also, of course, an important element in the Commonwealth Budget, where they account for about one-sixth of total Commonwealth outlay. 
Under the arrangements which operated from 1965 the grants formula provided for the grants to increase each year in proportion to increases in the population of each State and in average wages, these being the two main factors responsible for increases in recurrent outlays of State Budgets. In addition, the grants increased in accordance with a betterment factor of 1.2 per cent, this element being designed to help the States improve the standard of their services. 
The effect of this formula was to increase the grants at a rather faster rate than the gross national product and this was undoubtedly one of the main factors behind the increasing proportion of national resources that has been devoted to the provision of government services in the State sector. Outlays by the State sector as a whole increased from just over 14 per cent of the gross national product in 1959-60 to 16 per cent of GNP last year and, contrary to the impression given in some quarters, this enabled a significant improvement in standards of State services over the period. 
To keep up with community demands for improved services the States have had, at the same time, to increase the severity of their own taxes and charges. Against this background the States argued that, with fairly limited tax fields, they have found it increasingly difficult to maintain the rate of growth of weir expenditures. Their own solution to this situation, advanced in a joint statement made prior to the February 1970 Premiers Conference, was to suggest that they bc given access to income tax broadly along the lines of the system operating in Canada. 
The Government did not accept this approach. Allowing the States access to income taxation would make the Commonwealth's task of managing the economy more difficult, and a scheme along the Canadian lines could result in different rates of income tax applying in the various States. This would mean the end of uniform income taxation, which we believe has great advantages for the community and is the system preferred by the Australian public. Further, as income tax collections fluctuate markedly from time to time, adoption of the States' proposals could have created difficult budgetary problems for them in some years. In addition, the fact that the per capita yield of income tax varies significantly between the States would have made it difficult to work out equalisation grants satisfactory to the less populous States. 
The Commonwealth did accept, however, that there was a need for a significant increase in Commonwealth revenue assistance to the States. This is to be achieved in 2 main ways - by increasing the financial assistance grants and by reducing the burden on the States of debt charges. The reduction in the burden of debt charges is provided for in 2 separate Bills that will be introduced shortly, but I would like to emphasise that the combined effect of the new measures should be to increase the rate of growth of total Commonwealth general revenue assistance to the States by an average of between 21 to 3 per cent per annum more than if the old arrangements had continued. Since, as I have mentioned, the grants under the old formula had themselves been' growing at a faster rate than the Gross National Product, this represents a very significant improvement. 
The total amount of Commonwealth assistance that will accrue to the States under these new arrangements cannot be estimated precisely as it will depend on a number of unknown factors such as future movements in- average wages, in population and in interest rates. However, if average wages and population were to increase at approximately the same average rate as in the 5 years ending in 1969-70, and on certain other assumptions, the States would, under these new arrangements, receive an estimated $70m more financial assistance in 1970-71, and about $800m more over the 5 years as a whole, than would have been the case if the previous arrangements had continued unaltered. 
The increase in the financial assistance grants provided for in the present Bill is being achieved in several ways. First, while the grants formula applying under the previous arrangements will continue to be used to determine the formula grants payable to each State, in 1970-71, there will be payable in 1970^71 a further amount of $40m distributed between the States in the same proportion as the formula grants. Secondly, for purposes of determining the formula grants for 1971-72 and subsequent years, the additional amount of $40m paid in 1970-71 is. to be included in the formula grants base and. the formula itself will be improved by increasing the betterment factor from 1.2. per cent to 1.8 per cent. Thirdly, in addition to the revenue grants to be distributed between all the States, further grants of a general revenue nature are to be paid to particular States. 
For Queensland, there is to be a continuation over the coming 5 years of the $2m annual addition that was made to the base on which the State's formula grant was calculated over the 5 years of the previous arrangements. The Government takes the view that, in spite of the considerable improvement that, has been effected in Queensland's share of the grants over the last 5 years, the share of the grants now being received by that State still compares adversely with those of the other. States and needs to be further increased. Over the coming 5 years as a whole the increases should yield nearly 40m for 
Queensland on top of the State's share of the normal formula grants. 
Western Australia will also receive grants in addition to its formula grant and in lieu of the amount of $15.5m paid in both 1968-69 and 1969-70. These additional grants will start at $ 12.5m in 1970-71 and will be reduced by $3m per annum in each of the subsequent 4 years. This comparative reduction is proposed because of the significant improvement that has been occurring in Western Australia's relative financial capacity. The Government takes the view that, if Western Australia were to continue to receive the same share of the total assistance grants as previously that would be unfair to the other States and could result in a distortion in the allocation of revenue funds between the States. However, in recognition of the rapid rate of population growth and economic development in the State, the Commonwealth has undertaken to support in the Loan Council increases in Western Australia's share of capital funds available from the borrowing programmes to offset the comparative reductions in the revenue grants. 
The Bill also provides for the payment of a grant of $2 per capita to New South Wales and Victoria in each of the next 5 years. Those 2 States have pointed out that the absolute gap between their per capita grants and those of the smaller States has been becoming larger year by year. These per capita grants are not to be included in the base used to determine the formula grants payable to New South Wales and Victoria. It was made clear at the Premiers' Conference in June that, in the event that any of the 4 less populous States considered that the additional per capita grants for New South Wales and Victoria would adversely affect their ability to provide services of a standard comparable with those in New South Wales and Victoria, it would be open to them - that is the States referred to - to make an application to the Grants Commission for a grant in addition to their share of the financial assistance grants. This may be contrasted with the previous grants arrangements under which all States that had not been applying for special grants were expected to refrain from doing so. 
Honourable senators will be aware that, since the Premiers' Conference, South Australia has made an application for a special grant and that the Government has accepted the Grants Commission's recommendation for the payment of an advance of $5m to the State in 1970-71. A Bill to authorise the payment of special grants to both South Australia and Tasmania in 1970- 71 will be introduced at a later hour. 1 might interpose here that the question of the distribution of the general revenue grants between the States is one of considerable complexity, lt was for this reason that it was suggested by the Commonwealth at the Premiers' Conference that, in addition to its responsibility for recommending annual special grants to claimant States, the Grants Commission might also have the task of investigating and recommending on the distribution of the general revenue grants between all the States for purposes of the quinquennial reviews of the arrangements. We are still consulting with the States on this suggestion. 
Following a request by the Premier of Tasmania since the Premiers' Conference, the Government has decided to reduce by $l0m the special grant recommended by the Grants Commission for payment to that State in 1970-71 and to add the same amount to its financial assistance grant. The Bill therefore provides for the payment to Tasmania of an additional financial assistance grant of $10m in 1970-71 and for the incorporation of this amount in the base to be used to calculate the State's financial assistance grant for 1971- 72 and subsequent years. This arrangement will not affect the total general revenue grants paid to Tasmania either in 1970-71 or later years. That total will continue to be determined, in effect, by the special grant approved each year on the recommendation of the Grants Commission. 
As under previous arrangements, an important feature of the new arrangements is that the financial assistance grants are provided on the basis that there are no significant changes in the financial relationships between the Commonwealth and the States during the period of the arrangements. In particular, the Commonwealth expects that the States and their authorities will continue to pay payroll tax and that the distribution of tax resources between the Commonwealth and the States will remain unchanged. Any significant change in these relationships would permit a review of the arrangements with a view to adjustment of the grants. Provision for this is made in clause 11. In this context I wish to make particular mention of the responsibility of the State governments for their local authorities. The Commonwealth Government is well aware of the pressure being exerted by the community for an expansion in local government services, just as it is aware of the increasing demands for expansion in other areas of State Government responsibility. These demands for continued improvements in all areas of State Government responsibility were an important factor in influencing the Commonwealth Government to improve the revenue grants arrangements in the manner proposed and, given the calls that we ourselves are facing, the Commonwealth Government must continue to look to State governments to assess the needs of their local authorities in the light of the expenditure responsibilities of those authorities and the revenue resources available to them. 
I feel confident that the new financial assistance arrangements constitute a significant improvement in CommonwealthState financial relationships and that they should help the States to continue to improve the standards of services they provide. Of course, an even faster rate of improvement in standards would be desirable. But the supply of real resources is limited and, if we are to provide proper scope for the growth of the private sector of the economy, the achievement of higher standards in government services must necessarily bc a gradual progression. Honourable senators will doubtless be interested in the total assistance to be provided to each State under the new arrangements and, with the concurrence of honourable senators, I incorporate in Hansard a table setting out estimates that have been compiled on the assumptions mentioned earlier. The table is designed mainly to show the additional assistance to each State by comparison with the assistance that would be provided if the previous arrangements continued unaltered. 

<graphic href="046232197010296_28_0.jpg"></graphic>

I emphasise that, while the estimates of this additional assistance should prove to be close to the mark, the figures of total assistance are dependent on the assumptions stated and should not be regarded as precise estimates or forecasts of the total amount of Commonwealth revenue assistance to be proved under the new arrangements. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Cant)  adjourned. 
(12.17)- I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. The purpose of this Bill is to give effect to the undertaking by the Commonwealth at the June Premiers' Conference that, as part of the new financial assistance arrangements designed to provide increased revenue assistance to the States, the Commonwealth would take over responsibility for the debt charges on portion of existing State Government debt. The background to the new arrangements, and their overall effect, have already been explained in my speech introducing the States Grants Bill 1970. The background to the present measure, and to the States Grants (Capital Assistance) Bill which I will introduce shortly, is the compaints which State governments have made in recent years concerning the effect of their growing indebtedness in requiring increasing outlays from their budgets on interest and sinking fund charges. In particular, they have pointed out that perhaps one half of their capital expenditure is on works that are generally of a non-revenue producing nature. As a consequence, the debt charges on such expenditure have to be financed, in effect, from general revenues. While the financing of debt charges naturally results in less funds being available to the Slates for expenditure in other fields, debt charges have been one of the slower growing items of State budget expenditure. There is no evidence to indicate that they have brought about a deterioration in the financial position of the States, as has been suggested in some quarters. The general revenue grants paid by the Commonwealth to the States, out of which the States have been free to meet debt charges on nonrevenue producing capital expenditure, have been growing at a faster rate than these debt charges. However, in the light of the States' complaints about the burden of debt charges, the Government felt that it would be appropriate to provide some of the increased revenue assistance to the States under the new financial assistance arrangements in the form of assistance with debt charges. 
This Bill provides for grants to the States in respect of the interest and sinking fund charges on a parcel of State debt amounting to $l,000m, details of which are set out in the first and second schedules. The grants will be one-fifth of the interest and sinking fund charges on this debt in 1970-71- equal to $1 1.5m- twofifths in 1971-72, and so on. In this way the Commonwealth will, by 1974-75. be providing an annual grant of $57.5m to meet the total debt charges on the parcel of $ 1,000m of State debt. It is proposed that the debt concerned will be formally transferred to the Commonwealth in June 1975. I should mention that the securities in the parcel of debt carry an average interest rate of 5.5 per cent. This is significantly higher than the average rate of 5 per cent on all State Government securities on issue at 30th June 1970. The total grant payable each year will be distributed between the States in the same proportion as the total outstanding debt of each State under the financial agreement as at 30th June 1970. The amount payable to each State in 1970-71 under this arrangement is as follows: 

<graphic href="046232197010296_29_2.jpg"></graphic>

I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Cant)  adjourned. 
(12.22)- I move: 
Thai the Bill be now read a  second time. 
This Bill provides for the payment in 1970-71 of a grant of $200m to help the States in financing capital works from which debt charges are not normally recovered, such as schools, police buildings and the like. As in the case of the States Grants (Debt Charges Assistance) Bill, this measure is one element in the new financial assistance arrangements to increase the revenue assistance available to the States. By way of background to this particular measure I should mention that, throughout the post-war period, borrowings by the Commonwealth in Australia and overseas have fallen well short of the amounts required to finance the total capital expenditures of the Commonwealth and State governments. In this situation the Commonwealth has recognised that, if it had taken a significant proportion of public sector loan raisings, with the division of tax resources that has prevailed the States would have had limited scope to finance capital expenditure from revenue resources. In these circumstances, the greater part of loan raisings has gone to the State sector. However, in all but 2 years since 1951-52 new money raisings have been insufficient even to finance the borrowings approved by the Australian Loan Council for the works and housing programmes of the State governments. Rather than see a shortfall in these programmes, the Commonwealth has agreed to make up the difference through special loans issued on terms and conditions based on those offered in public loans raised during the year. In recent years the funds subscribed by the Commonwealth to these special loans have been derived from general revenue sources. 
The interest and sinking fund charges on special loans have featured as an important element in the States' complaints about the burden of debt charges and. as one way of helping to ease this burden, the Government decided that it would be prepared to make available part of the works and housing programmes of the States in the form of capital grants. The grants will mean that the States will have to meet less debt charges from their revenues than would otherwise be the case. In this way revenue funds will be freed for expenditure by the States in other directions. The provision of the capital grants will not, of course, result in any increase in the total capital funds available to State governments from the Loan Council borrowing programmes. It will mean, however, that the States will have available substantial capital funds, on which no debt charges will be payable, to help meet expenditure in non-revenue producing fields. 
The Bill provides for a capital grant of $200m in 1970-71 to be distributed between the States in the same proportion as the total 1970-71 works and housing programme, excluding a special loan  allocation  of $3m for Western Australia. Because of the timing of interest and sinking fund payments on loans raised during the year, there will be only a marginal saving of debt charges as a result of the 1970-71 grant. However, in 1971-72 the full year's saving in debt charges from the 1970-71 grant is estimated at approximately $14m. Further, as the Commonwealth has undertaken to increase the capital grant in future years in proportion to the increase in the total works and housing programme, the annual saving in debt charges will increase year by year and, over the 5 years of the new financial assistance arrangements, the resultant saving to the States would be nearly $150m on the assumption that current interest rates continued. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Cant)  adjourned. 
(1 2.27) -I move: 
That  the Bill  be now read a  second time. 
The main purpose of this Bill is to authorise the payment in 1970-71 of special grants of $5m to South Australia and$13.68m to Tasmania. These payments are in accordance with the recommendations by the Commonwealth Grants Commission contained in its thirty-seventh report, which has already been tabled. The Bill also seeks authority for payment of advances to the 2 States in the early months of 1971-72 pending receipt of the Commission's recommendations for . that year and the enactment of new legislation. 
Special grants are paid to financially weaker States, the purpose being to compensate them for such factors as lower capacity to raise revenue from their own resources and higher costsin providing government services of a standard similar to those in the financially stronger States. When special grants were first paid they constituted the only regular form of general revenue assistance paid to the financially weaker States for this purpose. The main way in which special compensatory assistance is now provided is through the higher per head financial assistance grants paid to the 4 less populous States. The financial assistance grants are, of course, the main general revenue grants to the States. The special grants, therefore, may be regarded as supplementing the financial assistance grants, and having the special characteristic of being independently and expertly assessed by the Grants Commission. 
Up to 1959, South Australia. Western Australia and Tasmania received annual special grants on the recommendation of the Grants Commission. South Australia withdrew from the special grants system as from 1959-60 and Western Australia as from 1968-69, but Tasmania has continued to apply each year. South Australia re-applied for a special grant early this financial year. The background to that application was set out in the second reading speech introducing the States 
Grants Bill 1970. The method used by the Grants Commission, briefly put, is to calculate grants which will bring the claimant States' budgetary positions up to those of the States taken as standard, after allowing for differences between the States concerned in financial practice and in efforts to. raise revenue and control expenditure. This involves a detailed comparison of the standard and claimant States' budgetary revenues and expenditures. From 1959-60 the standard States have been New South Wales and Victoria. The Commission, in recent reports, had contemplated changing to a standard based on the experience of all the nonclaimant States as from 1970-71. However, in this year's report, the Commission states that: 
In the circumstances of the new financial assistance arrangements the Commission is inclined to the view that a two-State standard may be the more logical and convenient to use, and in recommending the advance grant for 1970-71 it has had this in mind. However, it considers that it should not make a final decision on the matter at this stage, and it will give further consideration to the budget standard during the course of the hearings later this year and in 1971. 
The particular aspect of the new arrangements the Commission had in mind was the Commonwealth's decision to make additional grants of $2 per head to New South Wales and Victoria and. at the same time, to allow the other States to apply for special grants. Under the previous arrangements, all States that had not been applying for special grants were expected to continue to refrain from doing so. The Commission has not announced any other major changes in principle or method in this year's report, but the report does reflect the continuing effort by the Commission to refine the bases of its calculations. The recommendations by the Grants Commission for payment of special grants consist of 2 parts. One part is based on an estimate of the claimant State's financial need in the current financial year, and is treated as an advance payment subject to adjustment 2 years later when the Commission has compared in detail the Budget results and standards of effort and of services provided in that year for both the claimant State and the States which it takes as standard. The other part represents the final adjustment to the advance payment made 2 years earlier and is known as the completion payment. 
For 1971, the Grants Commission has recommended a total special grant to Tasmania of $23,680,000, made up of an advance payment of $22,000,000 for 1970- 71 and a final adjusting payment of $1,680,000 in respect of 1968-69. The basis of these recommendations is set out in the Commission's report. As explained in the second reading speech introducing the States Grants Bill 1970, the Government decided, following a request by the Premier of Tasmania, to reduce by $10m the special grant recommended by the Grants Commission for payment to that State in 1970-71 and to add the same amount to its financial assistance grant, thereby incorporating it in the base to be used to calculate the State's financial assistance grant for 1971-72 and subsequent years. This arrangement will not affect the total general revenue grants paid to Tasmania either in 1970-71 or later years. That total will continue to be determined, in effect, by the special grant approved each year on the recommendation of the Grants Commission. Under this arrangement, Tasmania's special grant for 1970-71 is thus reduced from the amount of $23,680,000 recommended by the Commission to $13,680,000. With the concurrence of the Senate, I shall incorporate in Hansard a table which compares the amounts recommended for payment to Tasmania in 1970-71 with those paid in 1968-69 and 1969-70. 

<graphic href="046232197010296_31_3.jpg"></graphic>

These payments represent adjustments to the advance payments made two years earlier. 
The amount recommended by the Commission was $22,000,000, reduced to $12,000,000 under arrangements explained above. 
South Australia's application for a special grant was supported, as is the usual practice, by a detailed submission. This was discussed at special hearings of the Commission in August. The basis of that submission was that, since 1959, the State's relative financial position had deteriorated while its share of the general revenue grants had, for a number of reasons, declined. The State submitted that, as a result, it was now unable to provide services of the same standard as the richer States. The Commission was. of course, able to make only preliminary investigations into South Australia's application and the recommended advance grant of $5,000,000 to South Australia, along with the advance of $12,000,000 to Tasmania will be subject to adjustment in 1972-73 after a detailed examination of the 2 States' relative financial positions over the next 2 years. Those adjustments could be either positive or negative. 
In the second reading speech on the States Grants Bill 1970 it was mentioned that the Government was consulting with the States on the suggestion made by the Prime Minister at the June Premiers Conference that, in addition to its responsibility for recommending annual special grants to claimant States, the Grants Commission might also have the task of investigating and recommending on the distribution of the. general revenue grants between -all States for purposes of the quinquennial reviews of the arrangements. The question of the appropriate distribution of general revenue grants between the States is one that is both important and difficult. The Government is pleased to acknowledge the considerable contribution which the Grants Commission continues to make. 
The recommendations of the Grants Commission have been adopted by Parliament each year since the Commission's inception and the Government considers that they should again be accepted on this occasion. Accordingly, I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Cant)  adjourned. 
(11.2)- I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill seeks the approval of Parliament to the guarantee by the Commonwealth of a $US4.5m ($A4m) borrowing by the administration of the Territory of Papua and New Guinea from the International Bank for reconstruction and development. The proceeds of the loan, together with the proceeds of a credit of similar amount from the International Development Association, will assist in the financing of a major highways project in the highlands of New Guinea. 
Following a recommendation by an International Bank mission in 1967, a survey of the transport requirements of the territory, financed by the United Nations, was carried out in 1968 by an international firm of consultants. The highways project is based on the recommendations of these consultants. It involves the realignment and construction of the South Wahgi Highway from Kundiawa to Mount Hagen and of the Southern Highlands Highway from Mount Hagen to Mendi. The detailed engineering for a new road from Madang to Kundiawa, to provide a second access from the coast to the highlands, is also included in the project. Normally, borrowings by the Territory Administration automatically carry a Commonwealth guarantee by virtue of the operation of section 75a of the Papua and New Guinea Act 1949-1968. However, with loans from the International Bank, a formal guarantee agreement is required from the Commonwealth and this must be authorised by specific legislation. The guarantee agreement for this loan, which is shown as the first schedule to the Bill, follows the form of a guarantee agreement previously approved by Parliament in connection with a telecommunications loan made by the International Bank to the Territory 2 years ago. 
The loan agreement, which is shown as the Second Schedule to the Bill, has been approved by the Territory House of Assembly. The loan carries an interest rate of 7 per cent and has a life of 24 years, with repayments commencing after 4 years. A committee fee of per cent per annum is also payable on undrawn balances while the loan is being drawn down. Tenders have been called and are presently being considered. It is expected that work on the project will commence early next year. The Bill provides for Parliamentary approval of the guarantee agreement. It makes consequential provision to ensure the effectiveness of undertakings in the guarantee and loan agreements regarding freedom of payments from Australian taxation or restrictions imposed by Australian law. It also includes an appropriation of moneys required for the Commonwealth to make any payments under the guarantee. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Keeffe)  adjourned. 
(2.15)  -  I move, if it is necessary for me to do so: 
That this debate be proceeded with to enable  Senator Murphy  to conclude his speech. 
I propose at the conclusion of  Senator Murphy's  speech to move the adjournment of the debate. At the moment 1 do not want to take advantage of the standing order which would bring Government business on immediately. I think that  Senator Murphy  should be able to complete his speech before I move the adjournment of the debate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
(10.54)  -  All I can say to satisfy the honourable senator's curiosity is that the provision is prepared and included in the Estimates by the Treasury and that all expenditure is brought to account by that Department. That is the only information I have and the only information I can give. 
On 20th October 1970  Senator Cavanagh  asked the following question: 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Treasurer. As a lead to State Parliaments, will the Government introduce proper employees' compensation legislation giving just awards to the dependents of a workman killed or injured in an industrial accident to ensure that the dependants do not suffer financially as a result of the death or the loss of earning capacity of the breadwinner and to ensure that dependants are not made dependant on charity when a catastrophe occurs? 
The Treasurer has provided the following answer: 
The Commonwealth Employees' Compensation legislation already provides awards that are considered to be appropriate and which compare favourably with those provided under State legislation. The amending legislation currently before Parliament would further extend the benefits and facilitate the administration of payments under the scheme. 
The Commonwealth legislation embodies an important principle, which does not appear in the legislation of all the States, namely, that acceptance by dependants of an award of compensation does not preclude the dependants from pursuing damages action in respect of the death of an employee, but a refund, in whole or in part, of the compensation awarded is required if the damages action is successful. In other words, the Commonwealth legislation ensures the right of a dependant to seek damages but provides that a double benefit is not paid. 
(12.30) -I wish to move a motion that sitting times this week be the same as last week with the exception that we commence on Wednesday at 10 a.m. instead of at 2.15 p.m. as we did last Wednesday. I move: 
That, unless otherwise ordered, the days and times of meeting of the Senate this week be as follows: 

<graphic href="046232197011022_25_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="046232197011022_25_1.jpg"></graphic>

That, unless otherwise ordered, the sessional order relating to the adjournment of the Senate have effect at11 p.m. each day. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
(12.32)-I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill seeks parliamentary approval to borrowings by the Commonwealth of up to $US125m for the purchase of defence equipment in the United States of America. Under the Loan (Defence) Act 1966, the Commonwealth arranged borrowings of $US450m to assist in the purchase of defence equipment in the United States. Those borrowings were almost completely committed by orders placed up to the end of December 1969. Under the Loan (Defence) Act 1970, the Commonwealth arranged borrowings of $US89m to finance orders for general defence equipment placed with United States suppliers for the remainder of 1969-70. Orders approximately equal to the amount of that credit had been placed in the United States by about the end of June, and negotiations have commenced for a further credit to cover orders placed during 1970-71. The present Bill will provide the necessary authority to enter into an agreement for this further credit. The loans arranged under the 1966 and 1970 Acts were all with the Export-Import Bank of the United States. They were used for the purchase of general defence equipment and, in the case of loans arranged under the 1966 Act, for some payments of the F111 aircraft. 
The Loan (Defence) Act 1968 provided for the borrowing by the Commonwealth of an amount of $US75m to assist in financing the purchase of F111 aircraft. No drawings have yet been made against that loan. The Export-Import bank of the United States has agreed to provide the loan funds to be raised under this legislation. Although the full terms and conditions of the credit have yet to be settled, repayment will be made over 7 years and it will carry an interest rate of 7.375 per cent - the current rate for loans of this type made by the bank. The Bill has been drafted to provide authority for the Commonwealth to accept the usual provisions of ExportImport Bank loan agreements. It is similar in all respects, except for the amount and the title, to the Loan (Defence) Act (No. 1) 1970. Since the borrowing is for defence purposes the approval of the Loan Council is not required. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Bishop)  adjourned. 
(10.3) - I ask for leave to move a motion for the reconsideration of the vote on the estimates for the Department of Housing. ] do this with some reticence but the circumstances of the situation earlier this evening are these: A division was taken. A Government senator was absent by misadventure. He was in fact in the Parliamentary Library. He was carrying out his work as a member of a parliamentary committee. He was in a room. It has been established that bc was in an area where no bells rang. He was completely oblivious to the fact that there was a division. Therefore, 1 am asking for leave to move a motion for a reconsideration of the vole on the estimates of the Department of Housing which, if leave is granted, will enable me to move that the vote on the Department of Housing be reconsidered. 
I am very sorry that this has happened. It is an embarrassment to me. It is an embarrassment to all honourable senators. As we discussed this matter here yesterday, I do not believe that we get results by misadventure; I believe that we get them by deliberate act. In the discussions we had yesterday, it was agreed mutually that when things like this happen by misadventure, the real voice of the Committee of the Senate needs to be recorded and not the result of something which is recorded through odd circumstances. In this case, an honourable senator was doing parliamentary duty in the Library. He was in a situation where, when the bells rang, he did not hear them. It was not his fault that he did not hear them because no provision exists in the room that he occupied for division bells to be heard. 
The fact of the matter is thai another senator -  Senator Gair  - was at the door of the chamber trying to get in. I understand that he could not get in. But I am not resting on that alone: I am resting also on the fact that a Government senator unfortunately was not here also. 
(10.32) - J am informed that the Parliamentary Officers Regulations were recently changed. This resulted from negotiations that took place with the Public Service Board. The Parliamentary Officers Regulations now provide for a working week of 42 hours during a session and 324 hours during a recess. If a parliamentary officer works either in the session or in the recess over and above those hours then, of course, he attracts penalty rates. I understand that if an officer works  M  hours over these figures he attracts a penalty rate at time and a half. This has been set down in the new arrangement that has been entered into. F am also informed that there has always been an arrangement on the hours that are worked during a session and during a recess. As T. have said, a new arrangement has just, been negotiated. 

 Senator Poyser made reference to an all nighter (to use an expression we all know) in the other place last week. The staff who worked during the all nighter would, of course, have attracted penalty rates at time and a half for the work they did. Sometimes Parliament sits for very long hours. We ourselves make the decisions in that respect. For instance - and I promise the Senate will not be doing this night - if we were to go beyond 11 o'clock tonight and sat into the morning this would be a decision of the Senate and the staff of the Parliament would be required to give us service - and of course they would do so. The staff would attract overtime rates for this work. The sitting hours are part of the mechanics of the Parliament having an autumn session and a Budget session. 
(11.7) - I would like to get a more complete answer for  Senator Fitzgerald  to the cases he has stated. 1 will see that  that is  done. 1 have a very brief note to which I shall refer in passing. The Department  has  part time typists with the approval of the Public Service Board. These  are married  women with school children, and during school holidays these ladies are given leave without pay to care for their children. That is one aspect. Together with normal absenteeism through sick and recreation leave and other staff shortages, the total shortfall of staff is almost half the typing strength in school holidays. As the Department was faced with visits by 3 overseas missions which arrived at very short notice and was also faced with the preparation of the International Grains Arrangement meeting it was essential to obtain typing resources quickly. The senator has gone beyond this reference and I think he is entitled to have a considered reply rather than a reply on the run by mc in the Estimates debate. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 
Department of External Affairs 
Proposed expenditure 581,276,600. 
(11.10) - I am unable  to  supply specific information  at this  moment. In  the  circumstances I think I should obtain the information  for  the honourable senator. I would hope to  do this today. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 
Department of the Treasury 
Proposed expenditure SS3,O6S,000. 
(12.17) - Perhaps it would be logical to deal first with the last matter that has been raised.  Senator Cavanagh  has asked about defence aid to South Vietnam which amounts to $3,304,000. Australia has agreed to undertake a comprehensive programme of civil, military and defence support aid to South Vietnam extending over a 3-year period. This is the answer to the first point which the honourable senator raised. 

Yes, because this is the first year. This  vole  has been created under the control of the Department of Defence to take charges relating to, firstly, the provision of personnel for military advisory training and civil action and similar schemes carried out by the Australian forces in Vietnam: secondly, accommodation and equipment for the Nui Dat training centre; and thirdly, military and supplementary military aid to South Vietnamese forces. The estimate of $3,304,000 provides, firstly, for personnel costs, $1,496,000: secondly, the Nui Dat training centre,$199,000; and thirdly, military and other equipment, $1,609,000. 
I think  Senator Cavanagh  drew a comparison between the estimated expenditure for defence aid for South Vietnam, which is a new line estimate, and the estimated expenditure for defence aid for Malaysia and Singapore. Defence aid which is given to Malaysia and Singapore is at the end of a cycle, whereas aid given to Vietnam is at. the start of a new cycle. In the series of approvals a total of $45,128,000 has been made available to provide a programme of defence aid to Malaysia and Singapore for the period up to 31st December 1970. This expenditure, of course, is the ultimate in that programme. This is the general reason for the difference between the 2 estimates.  Senator Cavanagh  also referred to the recruiting campaign.I think he made the point that a proportion of salaries paid under this estimate went to the staff of the Commonwealth Loans Organisation. This item provides for the payment of 1 71/2 per cent of the salaries of the staff of the Commonwealth Loans Organisation partly employed in recruiting duties. The increase in planned expenditure is required to meet the cost of salary determinations brought down during the 1969-70 financial year. 
The motion which has been moved by  Senator Bishop  is a vehicle to reduce the Defence Services appropriation by $10. We all understand that in the parliamentary sense this motion expresses a criticism of the Department of Defence in relation to the question of pay and the conditions of service.I believe that we should vote on this question and dispose of it in one way or the other. I would say, however, in  response to the case put by  Senator Bishop,  that a committee of inquiry has been set up which will examine the question of the pay and conditions of Service personnel. This committee will be chaired by  Mr Justice  Kerr. The committee will also comprise Lieutenant-General  Sir John  Wilton, who until recently was Chief of the General Staff,  Mr S.  Landau, who is the Secretary of the Department of the Navy,  Mr E.  G. Deverall, who is a Commissioner of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, and  Mr H.  T. Rogers, the personnel manager of Australian Paper Manufacturers Ltd who has been included to provide representation from outside of the Services, for obvious reasons. I am informed that the committee is to have its first meeting this week. 
Contrary to what  Senator Bishop  said - he made this comment in passing - I think I should make the point that this is not to be an open inquiry; it is to be a closed inquiry for very good reason. 
I think the honourable senator put it the other way round. However, this inquiry is to be closed for the very good reason that we want Service personnel to be completely uninhibited in expressing the views that they want to express about their pay and allowances. In fact, we want to encourage Service personnel if they feel so moved, to go along and expres their views. The fact that an inquiry on this matter is about to commence is an acknowledgment by the Government that there is a need for examination. Therefore, in the circumstances I believe that a vote to reduce the estimate by $10 is not timely and I would say that the logical thine to do would be to put this matter to a vote. It is true that in (he field of the Defence Forces Retirements Benefits Scheme which relates in some directions to the conditions of Service personnel an all party parliamentary committee of both Houses has been set up. Therefore, the Government is aware of the need for an examination of this matter. Having this in mind, 1 think it is logical that we now vote on the matter. 
Question put: 
That the request  (Senator Bishop's)  he agreed to 
(1.37  a.m.) - in reply - I rise to close the debate. I will not respond to all that was said. Some of it was personal, and I suppose that is understandable in the circumstances and whence it came. What  Senator Greenwood  said is true. Once one becomes a leader of a party one has to accept responsibility. One responsibility is to attempt to get legislation through. I make it abundantly clear that I have no sense of guilt, contrary to what  Senator Murphy  tried to pass off. I handed him earlier a copy of Hansard. I was most careful with my words when we were dealing not only with hours but with days of sitting.  Senator Murphy  said: 'Let us have a scheme whereby we lay down certain times. Let us have a plan and a programme*. I said: Yes, that is an excellent idea, when we get the work from the other place'. But before the ink was dry on Hansard next morning  Senator Murphy  moved an urgency motion the debate on which lasted for  3  hours. That rubbished any proposal for a plan. So much for this pious business about working out a timetable. Then the next thing we had - I did not oppose it - was  Senator Cavanagh  speaking for a lengthy time on a first reading of the Appropriation Bill. So much for this proposal for a plan. 
What did  1  say? Hansard records me as saying:   if the situation arose that I believed that the procedures of government- 
This was not about days or times -  were being stalled and obviously delayed by what I chose to term a filibuster, I would apply the gag if I had the numbers and was capable of having it carried. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI made that statement. 1 had the Government parties and the Democratic Labor Party behind me in the proposals that I put. I came to the conclusion much earlier than when I actually applied the gag that the Opposition was adopting delaying tactics in the Committee. That was my judgment. I still hold that judgment. I delayed applying the gag because the Opposition had circulated a series of amendments. I was not inclined to apply the gag until the Opposition had had a chance to move the circulated amendments. 
The honourable senator has spoken. If he likes, he may use the forms of the Senate to speak again. If he wants to impugn my character, I will put my character against his any day. It is as simple as that. Words are easy to use. I have lived a long time. I can still look the world in the eye. J have no worries about what the honourable senator might say. He cannot reflect on my character. Having said that, I repeat that I told the Senate that if I came to the conclusion that a definite attempt was being made to stall the system of government - I did not talk about times or days - I would, if I thought it appropriate to get the legislation through, apply the gag if I had the numbers. I had the numbers and I applied the gag. Tomorrow we have to debate some Bills. I propose to guillotine the debates on certain Bills. Where the Opposition has indicated that it has amendments to the Bills, we will try to put some time limit on them so that honourable senators opposite will have an opportunity to deal with those amendments. I am hoping that we can deal with the matters of this session tomorrow. 
 Senator Cavanagh  is speaking for the Leader of the Opposition and says there is to be no co-operation. If that is to be  a  fact of life, we will have to deal with it. 
Honourable senators opposite do not give me any credit for co-operation anyway, so why should I reply? I think the inference is that once I reply to an interjection that makes it valid and that if I do not reply the interjection is justified. That is a process of reasoning which I do not understand. However, it is very early in the morning to be talking like this. I have never suggested that I have not got cooperation from  Senator Murphy.  I have. We have tried to co-operate.  Senator Murphy  has a responsibility to those who sit behind him, and I have a responsibility to those who sit behind me. To those who sit on the backbenches I say that to reconcile all those responsibilities is not always an easy task. My conscience is clear. I made it abundantly clear, as recorded in Hansard, how I felt I may be wrong in my judgment, but I believe that there was a definite attempt to delay the passage of the Appropriation Bill. Believing that, I exercised my right as Leader of the Government to get the business of the Government through. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Senate adjourned at  1.43  a.m. (Wednesday) 
I move: 
That after consideration of Government Business, Order of the Day No. 1, intervening business be postponed until after consideration of Orders of the Day Nos. 5, 17, 18 and 22. 
The purpose of moving this motion is to deal with those Bills for which there are circulated amendments by the Opposition. This has been arranged in collaboration with the Deputy Leader of the Opposition. After we deal with the Appropriation Bill (No. 2)  we will then deal with these Bills which have amendments and this will, we think, enable amore reasonable procedure for the remainder of the day. At this time I am proposing that we deal with the Appropriation Bill (No. 2) in the normal way but as expeditiously aspossible. I do not think there is any secret of my desire and the Government's desire that we should conclude the business today before the Senate adjourns. I ask that honourable senators, despite hard words that may have been said, concentrate on the items in the Bill that they want to deal with. It is now only 10.15 and I just want to say that we will deal with the Appropriation Bill (No. 2) in the usual way and I hope that we can dispose of it very quickly. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Motion (by  Senator Willesee)  agreed to: 
That Business of the Senate, Notice of Motion No. 1, standing in the name of  Senator Murphy  be postponed until the next day of sitting. 
SenatorMulvihill - I ask leave to make a statement. 
(10.21) -  Senator Cavanagh  has dealt with 4 departments. If he would pause now I could reply to the first one and we could keep it flowing in that way. The honourable senator asked about items under Parliament. He said that he was aware that the $20,400 was for a display exhibition area at Parliament House. He was not so much concerned with that, because he has read the transcript of what occurred in another place and in the Estimates Committee; he was more concerned with the question of the extensions to Parliament House and what was happening in relation to that matter. There are two things that I need to say to the honourable senator. The first thing is that there is an item under Division 925, subdivision 1, for an estimate of $85,000 which may attract some information. 
As to the other matter about which the honourable senator spoke, I am sure that we are all interested in the extensions to Parliament House. The only information available to me is that they are still under consideration. For that reason they do not appear in the estimates of the Parliament in the Appropriation Bill (No. 2). If other Ministers are not ready to comment on the Department of Customs and Excise, the Department of the Interior and the Department of Immigration, then we can come back to that later on. 
(4.7) - In reply - The Opposition has indicated that it will oppose the second reading of this Bill which seeks parliamentary approval for borrowings by the Commonwealth of up to $US125m for the purchase of defence equipment in the United States of America.  Senator Bishop  has dealt with a whole variety of matters. First of all, his opposition to the Bill, as I understood him, was on the basis: Why borrow overseas? Why not use our own internal reserves? I think that the answer to that is fairly clear cut. The essential point which needs to be borne in mind in this issue is that Australia is a substantial net importer of capital, and to the extent that we can import capital we make more capital of our own generation in Australia available for our own use in Australia. Whilst 90 per cent of domestic savings finance in recent years has been used for domestic capital purposes, to the extent that we can borrow successfully overseas SUS 125m with which to purchase the equipment which we will require - and that is another issue to which I will come in a moment - we enhance our own capital position by that amount. 
I do not intend to develop a major argument and, in fairness to  Senator Bishop,  neither did he. He dealt with a very wide subject which we have debated in this chamber fairly often. In the past he has asked questions and 1 have given answers on this matter. He referred to the loan situation. The Government's argument is that since we have determined to purchase defence equipment overseas, if we can borrow at a reasonable rate of interest and if we can borrow on advantageous terms, then to the extent that we do borrow overseas for our requirements we improve our own domestic capital position. Let us face it: Australia is still a capital hungry nation. We in Australia cannot generate from our own resources or our own earning capacity the type of loan money that we need for the multiplicity of purposes which a young, developing, thriving and thrusting country requires. That is why at Budget time we all have a look at our overseas reserves and see the movement in them. 

 Senator Bishop then referred to the interest rate of the loan. The rate for defence loans is determined by the cost of money to the United States Government at the time the loan is negotiated. Although the rate of 7i per cent is higher than the rates for previous loans, it is considered, on the advice of Australia's best advisers, that it is considerably lower than the general level of interest rates overseas. One cannot go into the question of interest rates without receiving the benefit of some good advice. The international loan market and the interest rates which are charged by the financiers in the world are matters on which the Government, as well as anybody else, needs the best possible advice. The advice which has been given to the Government is that the rate of the present loan is considerably lower than the general level of interest rates overseas. 
I think that the main part of  Senator Bishop's  argument was related to the fact that, firstly, Australia should manufacture its own defence requirements and, secondly, that where we do go overseas to purchase defence equipment or, for that matter, civil equipment, we should at all times seek to get a flow back of offset orders. This is a very difficult task. It is true, as  Senator Bishop  said, that tremendous impetus was given to this matter during the period when  Sir Allen  Fairhall was Minister for Defence and when  Sir Henry  Bland was head of the Department of Defence. To a lesser extent, I and the head of my Department have been involved in this matter. In fact, the head of my Department only recently returned from a visit to the United States and to Europe, and one of his prime functions in the United States was to seek a flow back of offset orders. 
But industry itself has a big responsibility in this matter. Before Australia is able to obtain offset orders the Australian manufacturer has to gear himself to the American scene in terms of his capacity to tender. It is not a question of charity. Before he can obtain offset orders he has to submit a reasonable and competitive tender. The Australian manufacturer is small when compared with the colossus of American industry. First of all, the Australian manufacturer is confronted with interpretative problems. He needs to have know-how before he can tender on the American or British scene. It is not easy. A tremendous amount of work has been done on this matter. I have had documents cross my table in recent times which indicate the size of the problem. The Australian manufacturer has to have the capacity before he can tender. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI will come to the aircraft industry in a moment. I am pointing out that the problem of obtaining offset orders is not capable of quick solution. As I said in this chamber some time ago - I think in response to a question by  Senator Bishop  - we are in the early days of obtaining offset orders. It is true that in more recent times we obtained an order of approximately $500,000. This was a joy to my heart and to my Department because it was evidence of movement in this field. Often we hear people talking about this question of offset orders. Opportunities are coming up for us to obtain offset orders. But we will not have an open ticket for these orders. Australian industry, with all the aid that it can receive from the Department of Trade and Industry, the Department of Supply and the Service departments, still will have to make a real contribution itself before it can obtain offset orders. We have to help to educate Australian industry to get it into the position where it is able to obtain offset orders. This process is continuing. 
The case that was stated by  Senator Bishop  for more offset orders is a real one and my response to it is that the Government is very aware of it and within its capacity is trying very hard to get some advantage for Australia. The question of the Australian aircraft industry has been raised. 1 have made the point so often here that we have a real capacity in the aircraft industry. We have something like 3,500 people employed in the aircraft industry at the Government Aircraft Factories, the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation and De Havilland Aircraft Pty Ltd in Sydney, and it is a big part of my task as the Minister for Supply to try to see to it that they remain a viable force in this industry. We have a real capacity. We are building a prototype Project N at the moment. We built the Mirage and Macchi under licence. So we have a real capacity, but we have not yet the capacity to build a Phantom, an Fill or a sophisticated type of civil aircraft such as the DC9. We are in a competitive world and a ion, way from the centre of gravity in terms of those people who want aircraft. 
One does not build an aircraft unless one has something in the order book. It is sheer economic madness to say that we will build an aircraft and spend SI 5m, $20m or $30m and then discover when we have built it that it is a first class aircraft but we have no market for it. Our own local requirement is too modest - of the order of 10, 20 or so aircraft - and to build an aircraft one needs an order to start with of something like a minimum of 50 or 100 aircraft. That is part of our problem. Getting away from the aircraft industry, although there is a problem there - I am trying to be brief as  Senator Bishop  was brief - as far as our defence equipment is concerned our needs may be very small for some type of equipment and it would just be sheer folly for us to say: Right, we need this particular type of equipment so we will manufacture it in Australia.' I am constantly talking to honourable senators who have served a lifetime in industry and who know the tooling up and the blue prints that are required, the time factor and the learning curve, which all have to be taken into account. If we are buying some sophisticated piece of equipment which we will use only in a minimal sense but nevertheless must have, we have to make a judgment as to whether or not, although we want work to be done here, we can really afford to be manufacturing such equipment. We have to decide whether, because of the cost associated with tooling up, the learning curve and so on we can afford to manufacture here some piece of equipment for which the need, although real, is only marginal. 
A judgment has to be made here. Sometimes the wrong judgments are made and sometimes judgments are made which are in the grey area - but they have to be made. As far as the Service departments are concerned, and as far as the Department of Supply is concerned, of which I have the responsibility as Minister for the time being - I hope for quite a long time yet - we are conscious at all times of the need for Australia to have a capacity, and within our economic realism we look for that capacity in Australia. As I say, we built the Mirage and the Macchi and other equipment. In some cases we could have bought the equipment off the shelf, possibly at a lower cost, but because it was in Australia's interest to have a capacity we manufactured them in Australia. As far as the costs of the Mirage and Macchi are concerned, I think they were quite reasonable but we did have to go and buy the licences and that cost money. All I can say is that I am sorry the Opposition is opposing the Bill. I believe that it is essential in the interests of Australia's security that this Bill be passed. 
Question put: 
That the  Bill  be now read a second time. 
I inform the Senate that, following the resignation of Rt  Hon. Sir John  McEwen,  Hon.  J. D. Anthony has been appointed  Deputy  Prime Minister and Minister for Trade and Industry,  Hon.  Ian Sinclair has been appointed Minister for Primary Industry,  Hon.  P. J. Nixon has been appointed Minister for Shipping and Transport and  Hon.  R. J. D. Hunt has been appointed Minister for the Interior. 1 will continue to represent the Minister for Trade and Industry in the Senate;  Senator Drake-Brockman  will continue to represent the Minister for Primary Industry; and  Senator Cotton  will continue to represent the Minister for Shipping and Transport and the Minister for the Interior. 
Since the Senate last met the name of the Department of External Affairs has been changed to the Department of 
Foreign Affairs, and Rt Hon. William McMahon was sworn to as Minister for Foreign Affairs on 6th November 1970. 
(8.2)  -  I moye: 
That consideration of the report be made an order of the day for the next day of sitting. 
The effect of this will be to enable us to have an opportunity to read the report and then to bring the matter on for discussion. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
 Mr President,  you have announced the death of  Senator James  Patrick Ormonde, but it is proper now that I as Leader of the Government in the Senate give honourable senators an opportunity to record our condolences.  Senator Ormonde,  who died in Sydney on 30th November last at the age of 65 years, was appointed to the Senate to represent New South Wales by the Governor-General on 30th July 1958. He took the place of the late  Senator W.  P. Ashley. He was elected in the general election of 1957 to fill a periodical vacancy, taking his place on 1st July 1959. He was again elected in the Senate election of 1 964, for the normal term. 

 Senator Ormonde was a member of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works from 28th February 1962 to 16th May 1963. He was also a member of the Printing Committee from 7th March 1962 (o 31st October 1966. He was a member of the Executive Committee of the Australian Group of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association from 1964. and a member of the Commonwealth parliamentary visit to London in 1966. He was a member of the House Committee from 8th March 1967. 
Jim Ormonde, as we all knew him. was a former coal miner, journalist and public relations officer. He brought with him to the Senate a wealth of human understanding. He was a simple, forthright and direct man who was dedicated to furthering the ideals he held to be true, and dedicated to his convictions in relation to his Party. Jim Ormonde was a practising Christian, not only in the sense of being deeply involved with his church, but also in his dealings with his' fellow human beings. He had a brother who was a priest. In the district where I live and where Jim Ormonde lived, he was a foundation member of the beautiful little Catholic Church of St Therese. He. his wife and family, were regular attenders at that church. 

 Senator Ormonde in his way was humble, gentle and kind. I ani sure we all believe that he loved people. He did not allow his political convictions, strong though they were, to interfere with his relationships with human beings. He liked people. Friendly and kind, he enjoyed a story. He liked to smile. I always regarded him in this chamber as the spontaneous senator. Ff he was moved by anything that was said he would seek the] call from the Presiding Officer to express his views. He will be sadly missed by as ail. 1 do not think I need to say more than that we respect his memory. I move: 
That the Senate expresses its deep regret al the death of  Senator James  Patrick Ormonde, senator for the State of New South Wales, places on record ils appreciation of his long and meritorious public service and tenders ils sincere sympathy to his widow and family in their bereavement. 
James Patrick Ormonde was born in Kirkcaldy. Scotland. After his arrival in Australia he was educated at the Marist Brothers College, Maitland, and then worked in the coal mines. Later he trained as a journalist and worked on the old Labor Daily'. He had a distinguished career in journalism. He was editor of the Weekly Standard' in the 1940s, worked as a feature writer on the 'Sydney Morning Herald" and later became public relations officer for the Joint Coal Board. Many of us remember the joke that Jim liked to tell against himself in the field of journalism. He frequently told the story that at a Labor branch meeting one night he was dealing with the history of Labor newspapers in New South Wales and said: 'I know something about them because I worked on all of them'. He recalled that someone interjected and said: 'Was there any other reason why they went broke?' Jim loved to tell this story against himself. 
Jim Ormonde was appointed to the Senale in 1958 to fill a vacancy which, as  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson said, was caused by the death of his great friend and predecessor.  Senator Bill  Ashley. Later in the same year he was elected to the Senate in his own right. In 1964 he topped the ALP Senate ticket and became the first Australian politician ever to win more than a million first preference votes. He held a number of important posts within the Labor Party. He was an executive officer of the  ALP  for more than 20 years, holding the position of New South Wales VicePresident in 1954 and 1958. In 1962 he was appointed to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and the Printing Committee. He was also an executive of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association and Secretary of the Australian Labor Party's Automation Committee. 

 Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson referred to the spontaneous way in which Jim Ormonde used to ask questions. I felt that  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson waited for Jim to ask a question because he had a way of bringing in the topical headlines of the day. In the days when unity tickets were given much publicity he would refer to a unity ticket between a member of the Liberal Party and the Australian Country Party or the Australian Lab.or Party. These topical references resulted. 1 suppose, from his training in journalism. But in all his comments there was never a barb but always much good clean humour. I think we were fortunate in having a journalist to bring the news of the day before us. I think it must be said that his days in the Senate, valuable as they were to the Party, were perhaps the least turbulent of his life. He was an early supporter of the Lang Labor Party, standing as its candidate for the New South Wales seat of Waverley in the 1930s. He was defeated by the official Heffron Australian Labor Party candidate. Later he opposed Lang during the State split. 
Jim Ormonde always held strong anti-war views until his death. He was one of the first Labor men to associate himself with Australian peace groups and worked for peace, despite criticism that came, particularly in those days, because of the misunderstanding of what the people in those groups were doing.  Senator Murphy  has asked me to say that he feels a great personal loss at the death of his comrade from New South Wales,  Senator Jim  Ormonde. I think that expression of  Senator Murphy's  can be backed by all of us. lt is a personal loss and a political loss and (he Australian Labor movement extends its sympathy to Jim Ormonde's widow and family. 
 Mr President,  I have to inform the Senate that a former Governor-General, Field-Marshal Viscount Slim. K.G.. G.C.B., G.C.M.G., G.C.V.O., G.B.E.. D.S.O,. M.C., died in London on 14tt December 1970 after a long illness. He was born on 6th August 1891 and spent most of his youth in Birmingham where he began his working life as a junior clerk in a Birmingham city office. Then he became a gang foreman and after that an elementary school teacher. At the outbreak of the First World War he joined the Royal Warwickshire Regiment and after a short spell in the ranks was given a commission. By August 19.15 he had seen action at Gallipoli where he was wounded, France and Mesopotamia where he was wounded again and awarded the Military Cross. Although he was then discharged as permanently unfit he rejoined the Army within a year and saw action in France and in Baghdad. After the war be went to India and spent the next 20 years in the Indian Army. 
When the Second World War broke out he was a brigade commander in the 5th Indian Division in the Sudan. He also served in Eritrea, Iraq and Syria and when Burma was falling he was sent to command the First Burma Corps. He was given command of the famous 14th Army which finally cleared the Japanese from the Indian frontier and eventually right out of the sub-continent. He wrote 2 notable books about the war in Burma - 'Defeat into Victory' and 'Courage'. In 1947 he left the Army to become a full time member of the British Railways Executive. In 1948 he was asked to return to the Army as Chief of the Imperial General Staff and was promoted to Field-Marshal. 
In 1952 he was appointed GovernorGeneral of Australia in succession to  Sir William  McKell. He remained GovernorGeneral until January I960, a term of office longer than any except that of Lord Gowrie. He was a highly respected and popular Governor-General in Australia who in lime of war had been a down to earth, courageous professional soldier who had risen through the ranks. He travelled eagerly to all parts of Australia and both he and Lady Slim, though she had a great deal of illness, obviously relished their tasks. On retiring from his post as GovernorGeneral  Sir William  Slim was created Viscount Slim. In 1963 he was appointed  Deputy  Constable and Lieutenant Governor of Windsor Castle. He remained in that post until June last year. 
On behalf of the Australian Government and people and speaking on behalf of honourable senators on the Government side, including members of the Australian Country Party, I extend our sympathy to his widow and family. I take this opportunity to inform the Senate that a memorial service for the late Lord Slim will be held at St John's Church, Reid, Australian Capital Territory, at noon on Wednesday, 24 February. 1 move: 
That the Senate expresses its deep regret at the death on 14 December 1970 of Field-Marshal Viscount Slim,  K.G.,  G.C.B., G.C.M.G.. G.C.V.O., G.B.E.. D.S.O., M.C.. a former Governor-General of the Commonwealth of Australia from 1953 to I960, and lenders ils profound sympathy io Viscountess Slim and family in their bereavement. 
by leave - Earlier this evening I indicated that the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  would be making a statement in the other place. I now have a copy of the statement made by the Prime Minister, lt is very brief. When I use the first person personal pronoun it refers to the Prime Minister. 
I  recently spoke  to  the nation  on  the state  of the  economy and on the likely  inflationary  effects of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission's award  of a  6 per cent increase in wages and salaries.  I  said then that in order  to  decide what action should be taken now, Cabinet had sought to discover the areas in which demand seemed to be growing most strongly. One of those areas is the public sector - spending by governments - and we believe one of the first lines  of  attack on rising costs and prices should be  to  restrict what is being spent in that area. 
When our Budget was introduced last August it was estimated that total Commonwealth expenditure would be $7. 883m. I should say here, I think, that although called Commonwealth expenditure, this amount included $2, 708m for reimbursement grants and other payments to the States. Indeed, such payments made up  more than one-third of the Commonwealth Budget. The total increase was 11.2 per cent more than the year before. But since that Budget was formulated the Government has been faced with significant additional expenditure. The national wage case decision and other wage determinations are estimated to add directly, in the rest of this financial year, S88m to the Commonwealth's own wage and salary bill in 1970- 71. In addition, those wage determinations, because they nave led to an increase in average wages greater than what was expected, will require the Commonwealth to pay an additional $20m to the States under the formula between the Commonwealth and the States. In addition, we will need to pay some $58m to the States in this financial year to recompense them for the loss of the receipts duty tax on which they had budgeted. Mainly as a result of these outlays, payments to the States are now expected to exceed the Budget estimates by some $83m, and emergency payments associated with recent Moods will doubtless increase the outlays required. 
Other additional demands on our resources since the Budget was brought down include the provision of $12m as a capital advance to the Australian Wool Commission, and we believe some $6m will be required this financial year for rural debt reconstruction and farm adjustment. 
For which I have been given leave. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Laucke - Order! Leave has been granted. 

I do not have any copies. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONAs soon as I get them I will make them available. I cannot do any better than that. We must also expect increases in costs of the material used by the Government. So all in all, it is estimated by the Treasury that the net increase in expenditure since the Budget was prepared will amount to approximately $242m, if departments were provided with the sums they have asked for. This is the background against which we have decided that we should make reductions in what would otherwise have been spent. 
Having made a complete and detailed survey of Commonwealth expenditures, we propose to reduce the amounts which departments have sought by some $75m in the remaining months of this financial year. These reductions are' made across the whole range of Commonwealth departments, but they do not involve any reductions in our payments to the States. Our object has been to effect reductions in the Commonwealth expenditures for its own purposes. We have not sought to achieve this at the expense of the States. A dissection of the reduction of $75m as between the main categories of Commonwealth expenditure is provided in a table which, with the concurrence of honourable members, I incorporate in Hansard. 

<graphic href="047232197102160_39_13.jpg"></graphic>

Further details of the various reductions will be provided as necessary by individual Ministers. Thew reductions are spread right across the board, but it will be observed thai the areas where the more substantial savings have been made are defence, capital works and capital advances. and departmental running expenses. We were particularly anxious to effect economies in administrative expenditure, including the overtime and salary expenditures of Commonwealth departments. At the same time we have endeavoured to avoid reducing expenditures on essential development activities. In more general terms, we have sought to reduce the contribution of Commonwealth expenditures to total demand and to curb the Commonwealth's demands on the labour market. 
Thus the reductions in departmental expenditures will involve restraint on Public Service employment. The Public Service Board reported to me that a routine statistical projection made prior to my instructions indicated an increase in 1970-71, in full-time employment under the Public Service Act, of 4.6 per cent on the numbers employed as at 30th June 1970.In 1969- 70 the comparable increase was 4.8 per cent, whilst the increase in total civilian and defence forces employment in the community was 4 per cent. The Board advised me that my instructions for restraint on establishment increases could benefit the health and soundness of administration in the Commonwealth Service, and it suggested that a limitation should be placed on the increase in Service employment. 
The Public Service Board has now reported to me that in its discussions with departments, it has stressed the Government's policy of restraint but has not endeavoured to impose arbitrary cuts in employment. The Board's recommendation, which has been accepted, was that departmental increases in employment, which will be kept to the minimum, should not exceed at 30th June 1971 an overall increase in the Service of 3.4 per cent as compared with numbers employed under the Public Service Act on 30th June 1970. This is a reduction of about 25 per cent on the projected increase in employment disclosed in the Board's earlier survey. Put another way, the Board's original projection was that the Service would grow by 10.534 in 1970-71. This growth has been cut by 2,735. 
The Commonwealth has, I believe, moved quickly and firmly in the area available to it. It is necessary to do so. For, as we see it, the best interests of the community require that inflation shall be overcome, and one of the first steps to this end must be action to restrain our own expenditures. 
(11.48)  - It  is true, as  Senator Fitzgerald  has said, that there have been major disasters in parts of New South Wales due to recent floods and despite what he may have said in passing  - I  know it was not really-germane to what he wanted to say - there has been very real understanding and assistance given by the Commonwealth in helping in this matter in conjunction with the New South Wales Government. As has been said, the Prime Minister issued a Press statement on 8th or 9th February in relation to the type of assistance that has been extended to New South Wales in connection with this disaster. There are 3 ways in which the Commonwealth has assisted or offered assistance with regard to these floods. Firstly, 1 am pleased to say that the defence forces have made a considerable contribution towards rescue and other emergency operations. Secondly, we have agreed to join with the State on a 'si for SI basis in providing funds for the relief of personal hardship and distress in the affected areas. Thirdly, we have agreed to meet all expenditure for 1970-71 on natural disaster relief measures in New South Wales in excess of S5m. This last arrangement will have the effect that the substantial part of the expenditure on the restoration of public assets damaged by these floods, and of the expenditure on carry on loans to farmers in appropriate cases, will be met by the Commonwealth. 
1 am merely giving to the Senate the information that has been given to me. I shall repeat it. We have agreed to meet all expenditure for 1970-71 on natural disaster relief measures in New South Wales in  excess of$5m. That is the wording of my brief. Its terms are categorical.  Senator Fitzgerald  has stated the problem.I know that he has a personal concern in the sense that he has been into the area on 2 occasions. We are aware of the magnitude of the floods in this area. The Commonwealth has shown its awareness and its responsibility by providing to the States the assistance I have outlined. Nevertheless, I will accept the statement made by  Senator Fitzgerald  and will have it referred to the appropriate department. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
 I move: 
That the Senate at its rising this day adjourn until Tuesday next at 3 p.m. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI wanted to let honourable senators know that we propose when we rise today not to reassemble until Tuesday at 3 p.m. Because an urgency motion is to be debated which suggests resumption at 2.55 p.m. on Tuesday next, perhaps the simple way would be to withdraw my motion, having made the point. We would resume automatically at 3 p.m. or 2.55 p.m. on Tuesday. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  Are you withdrawing the motion? 
Yes. 
Motion - by leave - withdrawn. 
(8.22)  -  I am sure everybody would agree that it is not appropriate - it would never happen in normal circumstances - for me to get myself involved in recounting in the Senate discussions that the leaders have, or what we call discussions at the leader level. Everybody appreciates that the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy),  the Leader of the Australian Democratic Labor Party  (Senator Gair)  and I, in our mutual interests and in carrying out our mutual responsibilities, have discussions as to the procedures and management of this place. Normally they are sacred discussions and ones that would not be reflected in any debate here. But I am sure  Senator Murphy  will not think, and I hope the Senate will not think, that 1 have broken the sacred ruling if I refer to the fact that  Senator Murphy  and 1 did have discussions this morning, because I believe that they are germane to this situation. 
It is true, as  Senator Murphy  has indicated, that I expressed the view that we should follow on with this motion, which was a notice of motion in his name. Let me say in fairness to him that it is equally true that I indicated that I was anxious to have it disposed of. The reason that I gave in our discussion was that we were in this cycle of sitting for 2 weeks and having I week off and I wanted to keep as close as possible to the work load coming from the other place because I did not believe that wc should get ourselves involved in a Friday or Monday sitting unless it was absolutely necessary. For that reason I was pressing the point. I think it would be fair to say that the Leader of the Opposition agreed with me and that he saw the validity of what I was saying. 
So it came about that, although I had to leave the Senate chamber to go to the other end of the building for Cabinet discussions, I arranged with  Senator Dame  Annabelle Rankin that that would be the work procedure and that we would push on with the notice of motion after certain second reading speeches had been made. I understand that under my guidelines for the management of this place, in fact.  Senator Dame  Annabelle Rankin moved a motion to bring on the notice of motion in 

 Senator Murphy's name. We then had the situation that the 2-hour rule applied. So I gave  Senator Dame  Annabelle Rankin an instruction, with which she agreed, to move to have that rule in the Standing Orders suspended so that the debate could proceed. That is the situation that emerged. I am informed that at about the time  Senator Poyser  led for the Opposition - either at some time during his speech or certainly immediately after it -  Senator Byrne  indicated to the Government Whip that he proposed to move an amendment. Apparently he foreshadowed the substance of the amendment. I was most anxious tonight to let  Senator Byrne  speak before I spoke and give the reasons for his amendment. 
There was one other matter that I discussed with  Senator Murphy.  I think 1 must bring it out, too, because it is important in relation to this issue. I indicated to him and subsequently to  Senator Gair  - it was not until during the dinner suspension in the case of  Senator Gair,  because I missed speaking to him earlier - that I thought that on Thursday evening we should discuss the President's report because in my view that was not Government business so much as the Senate's business. I suggested that it would be logical to debate that after 8 o'clock on Thursday night.  Senator Murphy  promised me that he would take that proposal to the members of his party. I in turn indicated that I would take it to the members of my party, and I have done so. I say this despite my normal judgment that we leaders should not reveal what we discuss. In fairness to the Leader of the Opposition I wanted to put this on the record. 
Let me come now to the matter of substance. This motion has been on the notice paper since 20th August last year. It had priority on the notice paper during the last session. But, for reasons which I do not canvass at all, it was not brought on. 

I wanted Government business to be disposed of- 

To the extent that Government business was disposed of, there was a high degree of co-operation from the Opposition in relation to it. The fact that earlier today I expressed the view that it was desirable to get on with this motion does not, in my view, inhibit in any way the right of any honourable senator to stand up and move an amendment. When an amendment is moved we have to accept it at its face value and as it is proposed, examine it and make a decision. Otherwise it would be pointless to move an amendment. I think everybody recognises that an amendment that comes from the floor has to be looked at, and looked at at its face value. 
I believe that  Senator Byrne,  speaking since 8 o'clock, in fact has stated a case. As I understand the position,  Senator Dame  Annabelle Rankin, in leading for the Government on the motion in  Senator Murphy's  name, indicated that we would oppose a proposal for the setting up of such a committee. By an odd circumstance, we find ourselves in a situation in which  Senator Byrne  is saying: 'We are not prepared to vote against the motion in  Senator Murphy's  name at the moment, but we are prepared to wait, and we think it is logical to wait, until the Senate decides whether in fact it will have a Standing Committee on Social Environment and then decide whether this would be a suitable matter for it to examine'. In my opinion it is a simple problem that we have to resolve. 

Yes. If we can dispose of the President's report on Thursday night, as I see it, under the Standing Orders  Senator Murphy  would have priority and could come in on the first day we sit after that- 
It would still be on the notice paper; whereas if we have a vote on it tonight members of the Government parties will vote against the motion. I do not know what the members of the Democratic Labor Party will do. That is a matter for them to decide. If the matter is deferred, the motion will still be on the notice paper. It may well be that a decision will then have to be taken by the members of the Democratic Labor Party. But we feel that  Senator Byrne  has made a case for deferment and itis the view of the Government that the matter should be deferred until after we dispose of the President's report. I propose that we dispose of that next Thursday night. 
I present the following paper: 
Statement for the year 1969-70 of Heads  of  Expenditure and the amounts charged thereto pursuant to section 36a of Audit Act 1901-1969 (Advance to the Treasurer). 
by leave - Honourable senators will be aware that the drama involving a young Australian on Heard Island over the past week or so has ended happily. Last Wednesday 1 reported to the Senate that  Mr Ian  Holmes of Melbourne, an ANARE member of a French expedition to Heard Island, had broken a leg on the Gotley Glacier on Saturday, 13th February. He had to remain there while the nearest ship carrying helicopters, the Danish ship 'Nella Dan', which is under contract to the Australian Government, was able to reach Heard Island from the Australian base at Mawson in the Antarctic. 
The rescue operation began at 2 p.m. local time on Sunday using 2 helicopters, one of which lowered  Dr Grahame  Budd, who had been with  Mr Holmes  when the accident occurred, onto the glacier.  Mr Holmes  was strapped in a stretcher and lifted to a landing site some 300 yards away and then transferred to the ship. A landing party from the ship was returned by the other helicopter. The whole operation took 1 hour and 20 minutes.  Mr Holmes'  physical condition appeared excellent, in fact no worse than that of a man who had broken his leg in difficult surroundings, and his morale was very high. The 'Nella Dan' is now proceeding to Mawson, where she will unload equipment and supplies and pick up expeditioners for return to Melbourne. ] am quite sure that the course of action taken to rescue  Mr Holmes  was the only one possible in the circumstances. The whole exercise has emphasised that although the greatest care is taken in planning and preparing for our expeditions in the Antarctic, accidents sometimes do happen. I am pleased that this rescue operation went so smoothly and was carried out in the shortest possible time. Particularly I would like to point out how quickly and positively everyone concerned reacted in the situation. Signatory nations to the Antarctic treaty responded almost immediately to our initial inquiries concerning the whereabouts of other ships in the area. Unfortunately none was closer than the Nella Dan'. 1 am most grateful to Captain Neilsen of the 'Nella Dan' for the support of his officers and men throughout this episode. 
Finally, I would like to praise the staff of the Antarctic Division for their skill and resourcefulness, and to thank the Bureau of Meteorology for its help during this emergency in the Antarctic. 
(4.19)- I move: 
That the Bill be  now  read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to validate certain payments made to members of the three Services during the period 1st April 1961 to 4th February 1966. and to civilians employed under the Naval Defence Act during the period 1st April 1961 to 18th June 1969. This validation action is necessary because it has been established that there were certain formal defects in the financial instruction under which the payments were made. The period in respect of which this action is required commences on 1st April 1961 because all payments made prior to thai date were validated by the Defence Pay Act 1961. 
The financial regulations of all the Services empower the Minister of the Service Board to make determinations authorising the payment of certain allowances, etc.. to members of the forces. However, until the regulations of each Service were amended on 23rd September 1963. there was no power to authorise retrospective payments under such determinations.- it is therefore necessary to validate those payments authorised between 1st April 1961 and 23rd September 1963. which involved any kind of retrospective payments. Honourable senators will appreciate. I am sure, that it would be impossible without causing injustice to individual members to ensure that no retrospective payments were authorised under such determinations and, as I have already stated, the regulations have now been amended authorising the making of determinations involving retrospective payment limited to a period of 2 years. 
Payments made to members of all Services in respect of which retrospectivity would be authorised ' include: Overseas outfit allowances; overseas allowances for short term duty; overseas transit allowances; overseas living out allowances; child allowances; school expenses; overseas rental allowances, and representation and entertainment allowances. Certain determinations made under Service (Financial regulations were defective for other reasons and the situation in this regard varies with each Service. 
In the case of the . Department of the Army, the Financial (Military) Regulations were replaced on 15th March 1961 by a new set of regulations, the Military Financial Regulations. Unfortunately the new regulations did not contain  a  provision to enable payments to be continued to be made under the authority of determinations made under the repealed regulations. After the contention of the AuditorGeneral that, with the repeal of the old regulations, all determinations should be remade even if no changes were made had been upheld by the Attorney-General's Department, the Department of the Army completed the formidable task of revising and remaking determinations on 4th February 1966. The period during which there are payments which need validation as far as the Department of the Army is concerned is 1st April 1961 to 4th February 1966.  Major items  in respect of which payments were continued under determinations made under the old regulations include: Scale of clothing and necessaries, replacement of initial issues: scales of issue - rations, and scales of issues - fuel, light, stores. 
With regard to the Department of the Navy it was found that certain determinations made by the Naval Board under the Naval Financial Regulations did not meet the formal requirements stated by the Attorney-General's Department to be necessary because they had not been made formally by the Naval Board in session. The last of the formal determinations was made by the Naval ' Board on 12th September 1963. In the case of the Department of Air, all determinations tinder the Air Force Regulations were remade by the Air Board on 23rd September 1963 to remove any doubts regarding the validity of the determinations in force before that date. However, as I have stated earlier, there is a need to cover payments involving retrospectivity in respect of both the Department of the Navy and the Department of Air. The period during which there are payments which need to be validated is 1st April 1961 to 23rd September 1963 for both the Navy and the Air Force. 
The payments made to members of the Navy or to members of the Air Force under defective determinations include payments in respect of: Good conduct badge pay; hard-lying money; rent for service residences: issue of uniform kit; mileage allowances; short term duty travelling allowance, and removal of furniture and effects. The Naval Defence Act authorised the employment of civilians and provided that the terms and conditions of employment shall be prescribed in the regulations. The Act was amended in 1968 to enable the Naval Board to determine the terms and conditions of employment of these employees, and the necessary determinations authorising payments to these employees were completed on 19th June 1969. As certain payments had been made which were not prescribed in the regulations, the opportunity has therefore been taken in this Bill to validate the payments made to the civilian employees during the period 1st April 1961 to 18th June 1969. All payments made since that date have been made in pursuance of determinations made by the Naval Board. The payments made to civil employees under the Naval Defence Act included payments for: Fares and allowances incurred in overseas visits; travelling allowances on temporary transfer; allowances paid to staff on trials of ship afloat; meal allowances, and special rates for disabilities, etc. 
The total amounts involved have been estimated to be: Department of the Navy, $18,913,600; Department of the Army, 827,270,100; Department of Air, $4,800,000. The payments involved were made in good faith and were in accordance with approvals given by the Treasurer or other competent authority. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator O'Byrne)  adjourned. 
by leave -In 1969 the Department of 
Foreign Affairs decided to supply 5 DC3 aircraft as foreign aid, 2 to Nepal, and 3 to Laos. Consequently in March 1969 the Department of Foreign Affairs requested the Department of Supply for advice as to availability of DC3 aircraft in Australia. The Royal Australian Air Force declared surplus six DC3 aircraft over the period August to November 1969. Following negotiations between the Departments of Foreign Affairs and Supply 5 of these aircraft were bought for a total of $60,000. Two were purchased on 2 1st November 1969 and 3 on 15th April 1970. The aircraft were in military configuration and it was intended to convert them to the civilian configuration required and to do work necessary to bring the aircraft up to a standard wherethey could be issued with a certificate of airworthiness for civilian aircraft. As at December 1970 the estimated cost of this commission and renovation was estimated to be $425,000. 
In December 1970 Jetair Australia Ltd advertised itsfleet for sale in the Sydney Press. The Department of Foreign Affairs was interested since it was known that three passenger aircraft and one freight aircraft had been converted and brought to the state of having a civilian certificate of airworthiness within the past 18 months and had had comparatively little use. It was apparent that its aircraft would till the need of Nepal and Laos better and more cheaply than the RAAF aircraft the Department of Foreign Affairs already had. and the Department of Foreign Affairs ascertained that the Khmer Republic - the new name for Cambodia - would be glad of the RAAF aircraft in military configuration. The Department of Foreign Affairs therefore arranged for the aircraft to be inspected by an official of that Department accompanied by officers of the Aircraft, Guided Weapons and Electronics Supply Division of the Department of Supply. This inspection showedthat the aircraft were in fair to first class condition. They also possessed a civilian certificate of airworthiness. 
It was apparent that the 6 Jetair aircraft would meet the requirement to supply civilian aircraft to Nepal and Laos and meet that requirement quickly. It was also apparent that if this were done the RAAF aircraft already held could be supplied in a military configuration to the Khmer Republic and would not need $425,000 to be spent to purchase, renovate and deliver them but rather $235,000. 
Discussion between officials of the Department of Foreign Affairs and Jetair then took place. Jetair sought a price of $60,000 for each aircraft but as discussions developed it was apparent that if a buyer were prepared to take the whole fleet Jetair would sell for substantially less per aircraft. Serious consideration was then given to what would be a fair price for this fleet of Jetair aircraft. In arriving at a price, factors such as availability of aircraft from other sources, the mechanical conditions of aircraft, present internal configurations, status of certificates of airworthiness, delivery deadlines - Nepal, Laos and the Khmer Republic having all stressed urgent delivery - were all considered. The end result was that all things being equal, the aircraft of the Jetair fleet would meet the requirements of the receiving countries and the Department of Foreign Affairs better than any other alternative. 
A written offer was made by the Department of Foreign Affairs to Jetair on 6th January 1971. This was accepted by Jetair. When the Department of Supply was asked to proceed with preparing the formal contracts it made inquiries to ascertain whether other suitable aircraft were available. The inquiries revealed that other suitable aircraft were not available and the  Chairman  of the Contracts Board therefore issued a certificate that it was impractical and inexpedient to call tenders. 
The Department of Supply also reported that having regard to the condition of the aircraft, and working out a price by the method used by Trans Australia Airlines to place a value on similar aircraft, the price to be paid, that is $275,000 which included a small quantity of spare parts, was reasonable. The aircraft were bought for this price. 
To complete the project it will also be necessary to spend an estimated $4,000 per aircraft for minor repairs and $10,000 per aircraft for delivery costs. 
(12.33)-I move: 
That  the Bill be now  read a  second lime. 
The amendment of the income tax law proposed by this Bill will give effect to the Government's decision to suspend the taxation investment allowance on manufacturing plant and equipment. The decision to suspend the allowance was announced by the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  on 3rd February 1971. The investment allowance consists of a special income tax deduction equal lo 20 per cent of capital expenditure on new plant and equipment used in manufacturing and is additional to ihe normal deductions allowable for depreciation. It thus results in total deductions for income tax purposes of 120 per cent of the capital cost of elegible plant and equipment over its scheduled life. 
When the investment allowance was introduced in 1962, employment was declining, economic activity had slowed and there was uncertainty as to the outlook for the balance of payments. The allowance was one of a series of measures designed to stimulate demand and restore confidence in the future growth of the economy and was particularly directed to encouraging expenditures on equipment and re-equipment of manufacturing industries which were then at a low ebb. The economic conditions which led to the introduction of the investment allowance do not exist today and the Government has considered whether, in the current economic climate, this special incentive for investment in manufacturing plant and equipment should continue to be available. We have reached the conclusion that the allowance should be suspended. 
Private investment in non-farm plant and equipment is rising at an annual rate in excess of 20 per cent and. at a time like this when one of our pressing economic needs is the restraint of inflation, the Government does not feel justified in continuing the investment allowance on manufacturing plant and equipment. The suspension of this concession is one of the measures we are proposing to deal wilh the current situation. I emphasise, however, that the suspension in no way affects the investment allowance available under separate provisions of the income lax law that were enacted in 1963 for plant and equipment used in primary production. 
The suspension of the manufacturing allowance, as proposed by the Bill, will mean that the special deduction will cease to apply in respect of expenditure incurred after 3rd February 1971 unless it is made under a contract entered into by that clay with the supplier of goods or services. Accordingly the suspension will not affect entitlements lo deduction for any eligible expenditure that was incurred on or before 3rd February 1971. Nor will it apply to disallow deductions for expenditure that is incurred after that day in acquiring or installing plant if the expenditure is made under a contract entered into by that day with the supplier or installer of the plant or equipment. While that is the effect of the Bill, a number of submissions have been made by industry that the investment allowance should continue to be available under transitional arrangements covering a variety of other circumstances. These representations, which cover a complex field, are receiving careful consideration. If the Government wishes to adopt any of the proposals that have been made, it will ask the Parliament to give eRect to its decisions by further amending legislation. A memorandum explaining technical aspects of the Bill is being circulated to honourable senators. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Wilkinson)  adjourned. 
(8.6) - On  16th  February the  President  tabled a report as he was obliged to do pursuant to a motion which was carried during the previous session. That report will be under discussion tonight. I will be moving a motion consequent upon the tabling of the report, but before stating the motion and speaking to it there arc a number of points I would like to make. 
First of all, I want the Senate to regard me as the vehicle for a debate. It is almost impossible to conduct an orderly debate unless there is some motion as a starting point. Therefore, 1 have accepted the responsibility, not in the sense of Leader of the Government but in the sense of Leader of the Senate to move a motion containing a series of propositions. I want honourable senators on both sides of the chamber to accept that in doing so I do not regard myself as doing anything in the name of the Government, becauseI am not. I expect and hope that we will have a debate in which all honourable senators will speak on the subject as they see it and, if a vote is taken will vote as they see fit. It may well be that the debate will not be concluded tonight because the motion for the adjournment is to be put at 10.30 p.m. That will be a decision for the Senate. I do not want to create a position in which the Senate is forced to take a vote before it is ready. I have circulated the motionI propose to move. 
Do not get ahead of me. please. I am trying to state the position in an orderly fashion, as I see it. What I am saying is that if by . 10.30 p.m. we have not resolved the question it will go on the notice paper and I will see to it that the debate will be resumed at the first available opportunity. The motion that I propose to move postulates that we will do something almost immediately. After I have moved the motion I will speak to it. I hope that it is understood that the ensuing debate should not be along party lines but will be on a basis which is in the best interests of the work of the Senate and in the best interests of the nation. I move: 
That, with reference to the report by the  President  upon Committees of the Australian Senate - 
In relation to the Estimates Committees - 
The Senate adopts the recommendation that not more than two Committees should sit simultaneously; 
Meetings of the Committees should be held, when possible, in the Senate Chamber and Senate Committee Room L. 17; and 
The Appropriation Bills Nos (3) and (4) of 1970-71 should be referred to the Committees in the same manner as Appropriation Bills (Nos (0 and (2) of 1970-71. 
In relation to the Legislative and General Purpose Standing Committees - 
The Senate, believing that there should be a clear recognition of the different roles to be performed by Standing Committees and Select Committees, and affirming the need for the continuing role of each, resolves - 
That the Standing Committee system be varied, in the manner set out in the following paragraphs; 
That each Standing Committee consist of six Senators, three to be appointed by the Leader of the Government in the Senate, two by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate, and one by the Leader of the Australian Democratic Labor Party or by any minority group or groups or Independent or Independents, in the manner referred to in paragraphs (4) and (5) of the Resolution of the Senate dated 19th August 1970; 
That the quorum of a Standing Committee be four; 
That the Committees lo be next fully established be - 
the Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts; and 
the Standing Committee on Social Environment; 
That, unless otherwise ordered, matters referred to Standing Committees should relate to subjects which can bc dealt with expeditiously; and 
That the Senate authorises the televising of public hearings of Standing and Select Committees, at the discretion of each such Commitee. 
I remind the Senate that, on 11th June 1970, the Senate agreed to the appointment of 7 standing committees. So, we have in fact appointed 7 standing committees. These 7 standing committees are: 
The Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence; 
The Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs; 
The Standing Committee on Health and Welfare; 
The Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations (this shall include finance of States, Statutory authorities and Local Government); 
The Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts; (0 The Standing Committee on Social Environment (this shall include Housing, Transport, Communications and the provision of other facilities); and 
The Standing Committee on Primary and Secondary Industry and Trade. 
Honourable senators should understand that the Senate has agreed to the resolution appointing those 7 standing committees. This was done on 1 1th June 1970. 
On 19th August 1970, after a period of hiatus on which I do not need to dwell because of its history anyway, the Senate proceeded to a further resolution containing 12 points. I do not propose to reiterate all 12 points because, apart from the first one, I think that the procedures aire almost mechanical. The first point in the resolution was: 
The actual establishment of the total number of Committees, including the appointment of senators to the various Committees, shall be done over a period of not less than 12 months- 
A number of people have looked at this provision and drawn the conclusion - my guess is that they would be excused for doing so - that all of the committees had to be appointed within 12 months. In fact, it does not mean that, I am assured by the lawyers. What that provision means is that we have a commitment to appoint all of the committees but we cannot appoint all of them within the 12 months period. So the dateline, as I see it, would bc 1 9th August 1971 which means that of the 5 committees remaining to be appointed we could appoint 4 and would have to leave one swinging. I hope that I have explained that point. 
When 1 moved this motion which subsequently was carried, I made the observation that 1 thought there was a presumption that following the presentation of the report of the  President  - it was arbitrary upon him to bring down that report - it might well be that at that time we would appoint the other committees. But, in truth, the President's report is not expressed in categorical language. It is a good report and I think it covers the situation factually. Under the heading 'Conclusion' the  President  states in paragraph 82: 
Like other legislatures, the Senate will not find that definite solutions come quickly. The best Committee system is the one which comes from experiment, from trial and error. Knowing this, the Senate should go forward resolutely, experimenting in 1971 with not more than 2 Estimates Committees sitting simultaneously1-- 
This is given expression in the motion that I have moved: 
 Ifthat bethe will ofthe Senate; possibly using the Chamber and a PartyRoom for Estimates Committee meetings; and, as the Senate may decide- 
This  is  the point I want to  emphasise: 
. progressively bringing into operation  the  seven Legislative and General Purpose Standing Committees already agreed upon. 
I have made the point that we have agreed already upon the appointment of those committees. The only point at issue is whether and how they come into actual application. They will come into actuality by the appointment of senators to those committees. With that background, I now propose to go back to my motion and to take it seriatim. 
The first that I recommend and move is that the Senate adopts the recommendation - I think that is a fair word to use, although the  President  conches his remarks in gentle terms - that not more than 2 committees should sit simultaneously. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI am talkingto my motion now. 
If we are to be precise,I will take- 
1 point out thatI am recommending in my motion- 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONMy motion is that not more than 2 Estimates Committees should be in session simultaneously. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONYes, that is right. Complaints were made by some honourable senators who said: We are not members of any of the Estimates Committees appointed, but we do reserve our right to move from committee to committee. We may be interested in certain aspects of a matter being considered by a committee and we want to be able to move from Estimates Committee. A to Estimates Committees, perhaps, would be a mittee D, as the case may be.' They said further: 'If three or four Estimates Committees are running simultaneously, this would negate our rights as senators to participate in the proceedings of those committees'. 
A number of views have been presented on this point. Government members have expressed views on whether this is a good thing. That brings me to this point: Do not think that, as far as Government members are concerned, the motion that I have moved is holy writ because we have some Government members who think that 3 Estimates Committees, perhaps, would be a better number than 2 Estimates Committees to have sitting simultaneously. These views will emerge during the course of the debate. My motion is the vehicle by which the debate will be initiated. 
I turn to the second point in my motion. This reads: 
Meetings of the Committees should be held when possible, in the Senate Chamber and Senate Committee Room L.17. 
Consideration was given to whether, in addition to the Senate chamber, one of the party rooms which are bigger than L.17 might not have been used in preference to L.17. But the view has been expressed - and I think that it is fundamental - that Party rooms are sacred to senators and should not be encroached upon for the purpose of Government business. If this proposal were adopted, the rights of senators who were not involved in the particular committee which sat in a Party room would be negated so we have decided on L.17. 
The next point in my motion deals with the Appropriation Bills Nos (3) and (4) of 1970-71. These provide appropriations to cover additional expenditure made necessary by changed circumstance since Appropriation Bills Nos (1) and (2) were passed by the Parliament. The same procedures will apply to the consideration of these Bills as applied to the consideration of the Estimates last year. A message will come from the other place. The Bills will be presented. A concurrent debate will take place. The Bills will pass the secondreading stage and will go to the Estimates Committees. Those Committees will report to the Senate. My motion on this point recommends that we should follow in miniature because of the time factor involved the same procedures as were followed last year with the Estimates Committees. That concludes my remarks concerning the Estimates Committees which are a fairly basic matter. 1 come next to the Legislative and General Purpose Standing Committees. In my motion, I state: 
The Senate, believing that there should be a clear recognition of the different roles to be performed by Standing Committees and Select Committees, and affirming the need for the continuing role of each, resolves- 
That the Standing Committee system be varied, in the manner set out in the following paragraphs; 
That each Standing Committee consist of six Senators, three to be appointed by the Leader of the Government in the Senate, two by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate, and one by the Leader of the Australian Democratic Labor Party or by any minority group or groups or Independent or Independents - 
Let me dwell on that part of my motion for a moment. The Senate has a membership of 60. The Government must find traditionally from its numbers 5 Ministers who will be responsible for their own portfolios and who will represent the Ministers in the other place. The Government provides also the Presiding Officer - that is. the  President  - and the  Chairman  of Committees. It is a fact of life that in the new Parliamentwhich will operate from July when the new Senators take their seats, the Government will have 26 senators, the Opposition will have 26 senators, the Democratic Labor Party will have 5 senators and, as the position stands at the moment there will be 3 independent senators. I invite the Senate to consider this matter from the Government's point of view. If we have 26 senators and we leave out the 5 Ministers, who cannot be members of a committee, and leave out also the presiding officer and the  Chairman  of Committees, we are left with 19 senators who could sit on committees. Allowing for sickness and for leave of absence the number could be even less, so we are faced with a problem. 
Yes. The official Opposition has almost the same problem, although arithmetically it is not quite so difficult. It must be remembered also that in addition to the committees I have mentioned there are the statutory committees such as the Public Accounts Committee and the Public Works Committee which are joint committees and it is necessary to find personnel for them. With the proposal that we shall have 8 members on our 2 standing committees we have reached the point where it is very difficult adequately to man them because of senators' commitments with other committees. I have had some figures taken out in respect of senators in the Government parties serving on committees and I find that one honourable senator is serving on 7 committees. This work is almost extra curricula to his function in the Senate in Plenary session. Among the other senators, some are serving on 5 committees, some on 4 and some on 3. No doubt the figures for Opposition senators would be comparable. 
So what we are saying is that instead of having 8 senators, which has proved to be difficult for us all, without prejudice to the work of the committees we could reduce the number of members of each to 6 senators. With the committees composed of 8 senators, the Government has had a membership of 4 senators, the Opposition 3 senators and there has been an independent member, but the casting vote has been with the Government which has provided the  Chairman.  I have tried to capture the same principle by saying that in reducing the number to 6 there should be 3 Government members, 2 members from the official Opposition and one from the Democratic Labor Party or an independent, and that a Government member shall be the  chairman  and shall have a casting vote, I have suggested also that the quorum of a standing committee should be 4 senators. The question whether the quorum should be 4 or 3 is no doubt something that could be debated. That is a matter to which we can give further consideration. 
Provision was not made for that originally, but if a person retired from a committee he would have to be replaced. That is a point that I should like to bring out. At present I am trying to give the broad picture. I recognise that adjustments have to be made to the detail and that what I have proposed is not a complete formula. However. 1 have suggested a pattern which I hope the Senate will adopt. 
I have referred already to the quorum. As I said earlier, we began our system of legislative and general purpose standing committees by appointing 2 committees, one in relation io health and welfare and the other in respect of primary and secondary industry and trade. We had quite an argument in this place about the committee system proceeding to actuality and about whether wc should be cautious and introduce the system gradually. In the event we settled for the establishment of 2 committees and those 2 are working vigorously at present. The  President  said in his report:   . . and as the Senate may decide, progressively bringing into operation seven General Purpose Standing Committees already agreed upon. 
In the spirit of what the  President  said, 1 have suggested that at this stage we should establish 2 more committees, which will bring us to 4 of the 7 which we are committed by resolution to create. In suggesting this I have chosen the Standing Committee on Education Science and the Arts and the Standing Committee on Social Environment. We could debate whether we should establish those 2 committees or some other 2 committees, or perhaps 3 others, but my suggestion of the 2 committees that 1 have mentioned provides a starting point for the debate. They are the 2 that I think could come into operation almost immediately. 
Paragraph (e) of my motion does nol emanate so much from the Presidents report as from my thinking and discussion on the matter. We have always had some argument - albeit proper argument - as to the nice distinction that one needs to draw between a select committee and a standing committee. Anyone who went back through the debates that we have had on the committee system would be entitled to come lo the conclusion that in concept we have always regarded these new standing committees as something which could stem from a debate, from some piece of legislation that has been considered by the Senate, some regulation which has been discussed or even a petition which has been presented, where, because of the volume of work that we have to handle as it comes from the other place, it is not convenient or expedient to have a long debate by the whole Senate. In those circumstances it might be thought that we should be able to send the subject matter to one of the new standing committees with a request that it investigate the matter and report to the Senate on what it thinks about it. 
I believe that that was the original concept of the standing committees, lt was not intended that they should usurp the function of the select committees which are far more long standing and which take much more time in their considerations. In the event it has not worked out that way. Already we have had some references to the standing committees. I understand that the Standing Committee on Health and Welfare at present has a reference which it was given almost as soon as it was created and I have been informed by the  Chairman  of that Committee that it may well be that the reference will not be resolved before the end of this financial year. In addition that Committee has other references yet- to be considered. We have seen motions on the business paper for the reference of matters to that Standing Committee, but to be able to do an effective job the Committee could be involved in work for a year or more taking evidence in various places and making judgments on its findings. For this reason I have introduced what could almost be described as 'a little homily' by suggesting that we should get our lines of thinking right and appreciate the function of the standing committees which we are about to create. We should understand also the function of select committees, which have a far more permanent role and take a longer time to deal with references. I leave that thought with honourable senators for what it is worth, so that they may consider it and refer to it in the debate if they choose. 
The President's report contains a reference to an authorisation to televise committee proceedings. As I understand the  situation there is already the authority for the Press to be present at proceedings of a committee when the meeting is open to the public. Whilst one or two of us may have grave doubts about the efficacy of television and the effect it might have on personalities or the manner in which proceedings are held - some people react better to cameras than others - 1 do not think we should allow our personal views to impinge upon the logic which says that if the will of the committee is to open its proceedings to the Press, why single out the Press to the exclusion of television? It does not necessarily follow that a television station would give a full-scale coverage of the proceedings. It may well be that the television company wants to come in and take a snippet of a committee in session without recording voices. There is a whole series of variations that could be involved in televising the proceedings. In making this suggestion to authorise the televising of public hearings I was adopting the spirit of  Mr President's  recommendation with the idea of letting the matter come before the committee so that it could make a judgment on the matter. I feel that I have spoken long enough to lay a basis for a reasonable debate. I recapitulate by saying that what I have moved is not arbitrary. Honourable senators on either side of the chamber should not feel inhibited in expressing their views on the matter. 
Finally we collectively thank you,  Mr President,  for tabling your report. I think this document will take its place in the history of the procedures of this chamber of the National Parliament, and it may well be that stemming from the report and subsequent motions to which we might agree we will be able - I am sure we will - to produce in the Senate a system of management which will be in the best interests of the welfare of the people of Australia. 
(9.48) - I thank  Senator O'Byrne,  who spoke on behalf of the Opposition, for the speedy passage of this legislation. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
by leave - I move the following amendment to the motion on the notice paper relating to Estimates Committees: 
Leave out paragraph (c) relating to the Estimates Committees and insert in lieu thereof the following paragraph: 
The additional Estimates, as contained in the Papers presenting the Particulars of Proposed Provision for Additional Expenditure, should be referred to the Committees in the same manner as the annual Estimates.' 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
 Mr President,  as honourable senators will know, there has been a change in the leadership of the Parliamentary Liberal Party since the Senate sat yesterday. In the light of this change, the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton),  will be in touch with  His Excellency  the Governor-General to tender his resignation as Prime Minister and to offer him certain advice as to whom he should give the commission to form a new government. In the meantime, I suggest that the Senate should adjourn until next Monday. 
(10.12) - I agree with the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  that it is desirable (o deal with the matters seriatim. However, 1 have some reservations about some of his proposals. I do not propose to canvass them at length. I would prefer to have the 2 proposals as I have put them, rather than  Senator Little's  proposed amendment on the one hand, or  Senator Murphy's  proposed amendment on the other hand. We can deal with them as they come along. We will know our minds when we come to the vote. With the leave of the Senate I am proposing to add words to the existing paragraph (f). I move: 
At the end of paragraph (f) add the words 'and under such rules as the Senate may adopt.' 
I am told that there are questions of privilege and matters which need to be dealt with subsequently. I do not wish to muddy the waters by trying to deal with those matters while we have this motion before us. In other words, we need some rules in relation to the televising or broadcasting of proceedings; otherwise the companies would not conform. They need protection, and equally the Senate must have protection. But that is another matter. 1 do not think that the philosophy is a bad thing lo include, but I am not prepared to go to the barricades on that point. ( suggest that we deal seriatim with the motion in my name.  Senator Murphy  has proposed that at the end of paragraph 1 the words be added: 'the report be adopted and.' I have no objection to that. 
by leave  -  I wish to make a statement on behalf of the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon).  WheneverI use the first person singular personal pronoun honourable senators will understand thatI am referring to the Prime Minister. 
I wish to inform the Senate that on 10th March, consequent on the resignation of the Right Honourable J. G. Gorton as Prime Minister, His Excellency the GovernorGeneral commissioned me, as the newly elected leader of the Parliamentary Liberal Party, to form a Ministry. On my recommendation the Right Honourable J. G. Gorton was sworn as Minister for Defence on 1 0th March. Pending the formation of the new MinistryI shall continue as Minister for Foreign Affairs. 
On 12th March the Prime Minister's Department and the Department of the Cabinet Office were abolished and 2 new departments were created in their place. They are the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet and the Department of the Vice-President of the Executive Council. The new Department of the VicePresident of the Executive Council will undertake a number of functions previously located in the Prime Minister's Department and in the Treasury. It will be responsible for a wide range of matters. With the concurrence of honourable senators the list of functions which have already been approved for the Department are incorporated in Hansard. 
National Library 
Archives 
Australian Government Publishing Service, including the Government Printing Office 
Council of Aboriginal Affairs 
Institute of Aboriginal Studies 
Office of the Environment 
Film and Television Training School 
World Expositions 
Commonwealth Literary Fund 
Art Advisory Board 
National Gallery 
Historic Memorials Committee 
Council of Performing Arts 
Assistance to Performers Advisory Board 
Grants to National Organisations 
National Radiation Advisory Committee 
The allocation to the Department of certain other functions is being examined. The Vice-President of the Executive Council  (Sir Alan Hulme)  will answer questions in the House on matters for which this Department will be responsible. The Leader of the Government in the Senate,  Sir Kenneth  Anderson, will answer such questions in the Senate. 
(4.24)  -  I move: 
That  Government Business orders  of  the day 
Nos  I to 10  be postponed until after consideration  of  order of the day  No. II.  lt will be recalled that this item deals with the arrangements of the Senate in relation to committees. 1 think it would be appropriate if we could dispose of that matter. If we run into difficulties we could report progress, but  I  would like the matter to be brought on at this time to see whether we can dispose of it. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
(10.43) -  Mr President,  I move: 
Thatthe Senate do now adjourn. 
I wish to speak to my motion because I have been informed that in a debate which took place in another place today my name was taken in vain by at least one honourable member who suggested that, because of an answer that I gave at question time today to the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy),I  was not aware of the statement made by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  on the increase in pensions.  I  wish to make it abundantly clear - and Hansard will demonstrate this fact - that I did not say anything of the sort. I wish to make it abundantly clear also that I was a member of Cabinet when the decision was taken. 
(4.3) -  Mr Deputy President,  I move: 
That the Senate, at its rising, adjourn till Tuesday, 30th March, at 3 p.m., unless the  President  fixes an earlier day, which time of meeting shall be notified to each senator by telegram or letter. 
I point out that it is anticipated that, this afternoon and this evening, we will dispose of a number of small Bills. The only reason why I have included a qualification in the motion concerning the next meeting on 30th March is that it may be necessary for the Senate to return to pass legislation dealing with social services pursuant to a statement made by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  in his speech yesterday afternoon. So, I have included the precaution but, under normal circumstances, we will rise tonight on the assumption that we will be able to deal with these various matters today and that we will lift until 30th March. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
(5.12)  -  in reply  -I  thank the Senate for giving the Bill a speedy passage.I have listened with considerable interest to the points that have been raised. One critical question about the duration of the Bill was directed to me by  Senator Webster.  All I can say about that is that both in the speech by the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  in the other place and in my second reading speech the word 'suspend' was used.I shall not go beyond that. I am sure that the honourable senator would not want me to go beyond that because the second reading speech reveals that the purpose is to suspend the taxation investment allowance. The purpose of the Bill is to amend section 62aa ofthe Income Tax Assessment Act, and any explanation that I could add is contained already in the second reading speech. In the course of  Senator Webster's  remarks we embarked upon a discussion on semantics relating to a passage in my second reading speech. 1 invite the honourable senator to read the second paragraph of that speech with precision, and perhaps he and I can discuss the matter later. I thank the Senate for a speedy passage for the Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
(5.1.7)  -  I accept the comment made by  Senator McManus.  If he refers to the speech that I delivered, he will find that in substance the point that I made with respect to this matter was: 
While that is the effect of the Bill, :i number  of  submissions have been made by industry that the investment allowance should continue to be available under transitional arrangements covering a variety of other circumstances. 
The honourable senator has talked in terms of a circumstance. My speech continued: 
These representations, which cover a complex field, are receiving careful consideration. If the Government wishes to adopt any of the proposals that have been made, it will ask the Parliament to give effect to ils decisions by further amending legislation. 
I well remember that when this legislation was being considered the point now raised by  Senator McManus  was brought to our attention. There is a transitional problem in the case he mentioned. In the second reading speeches by the Treasurer and myself reference has been made to this. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
by leave - The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  has presented in another place a statement setting out details of his new Ministry. On behalf of the Prime Minister I present that statement to the Senate. Honourable senators will understand that whenI use the first person singular personal pronoun it refers to the Prime Minister. The statement reads: 
Prime Minister, the Rt Hon. William McMahon. 

 Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Trade and Industry, the  Hon.  J. D. Anthony. 
Minister for Defence, the Rt. Hon. J. G. Gorton. 
Minister for Primary Industry, the  Hon.  Jan Sinclair. 
Minister for Supply and Leader of the Government in the Senate,  Senator the Hon. Sir Kenneth  Anderson. 
Minister for National Development and Leader of the House, the  Hon.  R. W. C. Swartz, M.B.E., E.D. 
Treasurer, the  Hon.  B. M. Snedden, Q.C. 
by leave - On behalf of Government senators, I join in the expressions of good will to both  Senator Greenwood  and  Senator Dame  Annabelle Rankin.  Senator Dame  Annabelle will be a very worthy representative of Australia when she goes to New Zealand, and 1 am sure that  Senator Greenwood  will be a very worthy representative in the Ministry. 
(4.48)  -  I move: 
That  Senator Withers  having been duly nominated in accordance with Standing Order 36a. be appointedto the Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances. 
(8.49) - I would prefer to take on board the point made by the honourable senator and, instead of replying to him off the cuff, obtain a written reply for him. t would prefer at the moment to have the Bill passed before giving consideration to the point raised by the honourable senator. I will communicate with him in due course. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment: report adopted. 
Third fit-tiding 
Bill (on motion by  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson) read a third time. 
(8.43) - in reply - 1 thank the Senate and you,  Mr Deputy President,  for the speedy consideration of the Bill through the Senate. The remarks of the 2 honourable senators who have participated in the debate were interesting. Although they were not directly related to the Bill, I think it is true to say that the Senate appreciated them. The Government does not necessarily agree with everything that has been said. T repeat that f thank the Senate for the speedy consideration of the Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
(10.8)  -  The purpose of the motion is to transfer a reference from one standing committee to another standing committee. It is not necessary to argue the merits of the reference as they have already been debated. The only point at issue is whether the reference would be more appropriately dealt with by the Standing Committee on Social Environment. I do not challenge the proposal and do not oppose the motion. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
by leave - The statement I am about to make was made by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  in the House of Representatives earlier today. When I use the first person personal pronoun it refers to the Prime Minister. 
On 7th April 1970, the Government announced to the House the membership of a joint committee established by the Commonwealth and Queensland to investigate the problem of the crown of thorns starfish on the Great Barrier Reef. The committee comprised: 
Commonwealth Nominees- Professor R. I. Walsh. O.B.E., Professor of Human Genetics at the University of New South Wales (Chairman); Professor W. G. H. Maxwell, Associate Professor of Geology at the University of Sydney, and  Mr D.  J. Tranter, Senior Research Scientist. Division of Fisheries and Oceanography, Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation. 
Queensland Nominees-  Dr J.  M. Harvey, Director-General of Primary Industries; Professor J. M. Thomson, Professor of Zoology at the Queensland University, and  Mr C.  L. Harris, of the Department of Primary Industries. 
The announcement of the committee's membership followed agreement reached on 29th January 1970 by both Governments that such a committee be established and that it should be financed on a SI for  $1 basis by each Government. I am pleased to be able to tell the House (hat on last Thursday, 25th March, the  chairman  of the committee, Professor Walsh, reported to me on the results of the committee's work. In view of the importance of the report and of the widespread interest which has been taken in iti progress, I arranged for Cabinet to consider the report today and for the report to be tabled so that honourable members will be able to inform themselves fully of its conclusions, and of the reasons underlying these conclusions. 
Honourable members will be aware of the very deep concern which is felt by many about the possibility of destruction to the Great Barrier Reef by the crown of thorns starfish. This concern has been deepened for many by the belief that perhaps complete destruction of the Reef was inevitable unless early Government action was taken. Some have suggested that it may now be too late to save the Reef. 
It is therefore pertinent to draw to honourable members' attention,  Sir, a  reference in the committee's report to articles in the Press and in semi-technical journals on the starfish as being either repetitive presentation of eye-catching speculations or exaggerations of the limited facts available (paragraph 2.8, page 13). Some of the confusion appears to have occurred because the available methods of estimating population densities of the starfish are rather crude. Extrapolations from these results are not reliable and are of doubtful value (paragraph 4.7, page 20). Also overlooked has been the fact that the published figures of the proportion of dead coral on reefs attacked by the starfish have included an estimated 10 to 50 per cent of corals killed by other means - such deaths being a normal state of affairs (paragraphs 4.17-4.19, page 21). 
Analogies have been drawn between the action which had been taken on Guam and the situation in the Great Barrier Reef. On Guam, teams of divers were used to combat the starfish; some felt that a similar operation should be mounted on the Great Barrier Reef. Such suggestions overlooked the fact that Guam has a comparatively simple reef surrounding it, around which the starfish were said to move, limited on one side by the island beach and on the other by the sea proper, whereas the Great 
Barrier Reef is of a size and a complexity which makes similar generalised action to that taken on Guam ineffective. 
In the light of the wide differences of authoritative opinion as to the threat, if any, which the starfish poses to the Great Barrier Reef the Commonwealth considered it necessary to obtain more facts before any further action was taken to deal with the starfish beyond that already set in train by the Queensland Government and to which reference is made in the committee's report. The Great Barrier Reef is perhaps the most complex eco-system known to man and many experts considered that it would have been irresponsible for generalised action to be taken before knowing the likely consequences of such action upon the chain of life which comprises the Reef as we know it. 

 Sir, as to the results of the committee's investigations, the committee has found that the crown of thorns starfish does not constitute a threat to the Great Barrier Reef as a whole; there is no danger of substantial erosion of the physical structure of the reef; and there is no threat to the Queensland coastline or ports.- The entire living cover, or even a large proportion of the coral cover, of the Reef will not disappear as a result of the crown of thorns starfish. Whilst there has been extensive damage to coral because of the starfish, serious damage is limited. Re-colonisation and regeneration of coral have occurred on all reefs examined by the .committee. The committee has not been able to determine whether the high density of starfish in some areas is a unique or a. cyclical phenomenon but it appears more likely to be an episodic event which may have occurred previously. 
The committee refers to . the. fact that the feeding by the crown of thorns on living coral constitutes, in the long term, part of the reef-building process, . whereby dead material is consolidated in orde,r to- provide the platform necessary for the Reef's continued growth. Tourist activity has not declined as a result of the starfish damage. The committee cannot give the. reason for the population increase of crown of thorns starfish in some areas. It reports (that the hypothesis that local collection of triton shells has reduced predator pressure on the starfish has not been substantiated' nor has the hypothesis that pesticides and other organic chemicals may have been causal. The committee believes that there is no need to attempt to reduce the population of the crown of thorns starfish throughout the whole of the Great Barrier Reef at the present time. It does not dispute that certain reefs or portions of reefs having social or commercial importance may be protected by manual destruction of accessible starfish. 
The committee finds that present knowledge of reef ecology is inadequate to assess fully present and future problems concerning the crown of thorns starfish and related matters, lt therefore suggests a programme of research involving continued monitoring of starfish population; research into reef ecology, with particular attention to the biology of the starfish and corals; the experiments in local control of the starfish. To achieve this programme it recommends that a sum of money of the order of $90,000 to $120,000 be provided in the first year to allow such research and that the sum provided be increased progressively in each of the second and third years at which time there would be a review in the light of the operation of the Australian Institute of Marine Science. 
As 1 have already mentioned, Cabinet has considered the recommendations of the committee. I am pleased to be able to say that the Government agrees with the recommendations of the committee. I have been in touch with the Queensland Premier and we have agreed that $45,000 be allocated on a matching basis by each Government for research projects recommended in its first year by an advisory committee. The advisory committee would report to the Minister for Education and Science, who will act on behalf of both Governments. This amount will be increased by $10,000 by each Government in each of the second and third years. Each Government is prepared to increase its grant on a matching basis to the upper limits recommended by the report if the advisory committee finds in practice that it has sufficiently good research projects to warrant this. I shall announce the membership of the advisory committee as soon as possible. 
Motion (by  Senator O'Byrne)  proposed: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator O'Byrne)  adjourned. 
by leave  -  I propose to make a statement on behalf of the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  in relation to the future of Australian forces in Vietnam. When 1 use the first person singular personal pronoun honourable senators will understand that  I  am referring to the Prime Minister. 
The Government has been reviewing the position of Australia's military forces in Vietnam in order to determine what further withdrawal options are open to it, having regard to the security situation and the intentions of the Government of the Republic of Vietnam and of our other major allies. This review follows from the policy stated by the then Prime Minister in April 1970 when, in announcing the withdrawal of one Army battalion, he said that should the progress of pacification and Vietnamisation succeed as the  President  (of the United States) hopes and believes that it will, then at some stage during the 12 months period we will consider phasing additional troops into the planned withdrawal'. 
During his recent visit to Vietnam, the Minister for Defence  (Mr Gorton)  had valuable discussions with Vietnamese leaders and with the Commander of United States forces in Vietnam. These consultations have confirmed our assessment that steady improvement is being achieved in the security situation. Many factors have contributed to this improvement. The policy of Vietnamisation, that is, the development of the capability and effectiveness of South Vietnam's armed forces, has produced a much stronger and more cohesive fighting force. The pacification programme has also achieved notable successes, and its contribution towards improved security in the rural areas has necessitated the enemy concentrating his effort against that programme. These developments, in combination with North Vietnam's manpower problems, have seen a significant decline in enemy-initiated activity over the last 2 years. 
An important consequence of these achievements has been that the South Vietnamese have been able to continue their operations in Cambodia against North Vietnamese regular forces. Additionally they were able to initiate and conduct the recent operations against the North Vietnamese supply lines in southern Laos. The effect of these operations so far has been to prevent the enemy mounting large-scale actions inside South Vietnam and thus they have given the South Vietnamese time for the further development of their forces and for strengthening the pacification programme. In a number of key areas within South Vietnam the North Vietnamese have for the present lost the military initiative. The enemy forces are thus being forced to a position of reacting to the South Vietnamese rather than being able to fight at a time and place of their own choosing. 
Turning to the overall security of South Vietnam, it is undeniable that there has been satisfactory progress towards the objective of establishing the circumstances in which South Vietnam can determine its own future. There remain, of course, difficulties which should not be minimised. The North Vietnamese at the Parrs talks have remained intransigent. Nothing constructive has been offered by them towards a negotiated settlement. In Vietnam itself there has been some resurgence in Communist terrorism, political agitation, and attacks against lines of communication. These tactics by the Communists, using their remaining infrastructure in the country, will doubtless be employed against the Government and people for some time to come. 
In its weighing up of the overall situation, the Government has decided that further reductions of the Australian forces in Vietnam are feasible and desirable. With the agreement of the Government of the Republic of Vietnam, and following consultations with United States military authorities in Saigon, some forces will now be withdrawn. These are; Selected combat and supporting forces of the Army task force, including the tank squadron, totalling about 650 men; Royal Australian Navy personnel, about 45 in number, serving with the United States Assault Helicopter Company; the RAN Clearance Diving Team - clearance of underwater explo sives - of 6 personnel; No. 2 Canberra Bomber Squadron involving 280 men: and some aircraft of the Caribou transport squadron and about 44 men.. 
The reductions are therefore to be spread over the 3 Services and will have the effect of reducing the total Australian personnel by about 1,000 men. The Australian forces then remaining in South Vietnam will comprise 6,000 men compared with a peak of 8,000 in the period 1968 to 1970. All these remaining forces, including the 2-battalion Task Force in Phuoc Tuy, will retain an effective operational capability. The tasks of . our forces will continue to change as the Vietnamese territorial forces accept increased operational responsibility. 
The units and personnel involved in these reductions will be withdrawn gradually over a period of 4 to 6 months, commencing in May. This timetable will permit detailed adjustments to be made between the Australian, South Vietnamese, and United States military authorities in relation to the security requirements of the areas involved. 
Events in South Vietnam, to which our own fighting men made such a . notable contribution, have made these withdrawals possible and they are entirely in accordance with the policy of the Government as announced in Parliament.-. It must be acknowledged that enemy forces in IndoChina still retain a considerable offensive capability, and there remains in South Vietnam a structure of Vietcong cadres and guerillas which has been long established and whose strength is very difficult to assess. No doubt the Government and forces of the Republic may from time to time suffer military setbacks, and the continuance of the war against aggression will be a heavy burden upon them. But perhaps more than ever before, the Government of the Republic acknowledges that getting on top of the internal threat to security and the development of progressive government in the provinces are tasks best performed by themselves once a sufficient degree of security from massive external attack has been established. Greater confidence now exists. The Vietnamese authorities have developed a variety of programmes which are becoming increasingly effective in bringing better administration in the countryside. 
The Australian Government will continue to assist the Republic of Vietnam, though the character of our assistance will progressively change. For example, the new Jungle Warfare Training Centre at Nui Dat has just completed its first course. Australian economic and military aid in a variety of forms will continue. We will continue to build houses for members of the Territorial Forces and their families. Other forms of civil aid and civic action will be examined by the Government. As to the future of our forces in Vietnam, the Government will keep the matter under constant review, bearing in mind the security of our own forces and our obligations to the Government of the Republic of Vietnam. 
(4.55) -I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to enable the Commonwealth to meet its obligation under a guarantee of repayment of certain borrowings by the Australian Wheat Board from the Reserve Bank of Australia in respect of wheat from the 1969-70 pool. A similar loan, the repayment of which was completed earlierthis month, was made last year in respect of wheal from the 1968-69 crop. 
Arrangements were made for the Board to borrow up to$398m from the Rural Credits Department of the Reserve Bank to assist in the marketing of the 1969-70 crop. The date for final repayment is 31st March 1971. approximately 12 months after the drawings were made, in order to comply with section 57 of the Reserve Bank Act, which requires that loans of the type made to the Board shall not be for more than 1 year. The Board will be unable to repay the borrowings in full by the due date because receipts from sales of wheat will be insufficient for the purpose. This will mean that the Commonwealth willbe liable under its guarantee for an amount currently expected to be in the vicinity of$1 90m, recoupment of which is estimated to take approximately 14 months. It is proposed that the Commonwealth lend to the Board sufficient funds to enable it to discharge its debt to the Bank. It is also proposed that the Board be required to use for repayment of the loan all net proceeds from export sales of wheat of the 1969-70 pool - after the date of the loan - as well as the Commonwealth's stabilisation payment. 
The Bill provides that the loan to the Board be at an interest rate of 5 per cent per annum on the daily balances outstanding, with the actual timing of capital repayments and interest to be determined by the Treasurer. The interest rate is onehalf per cent higher than that charged on last year's loan and reflects, in part, the increased cost of borrowing to the Commonwealth. The Commonwealth financed last year's loan to the Board by the issue to the Reserve Bank of treasury notes on which the average rate of interest at the time was about 5 per cent. The expectation is that the loan to the Board in respect of the 1969-70 pool will again be financed by the issue of treasury notes, on which the average rate of interest is currently 5.725 per cent. It should also be noted that, on its exports sales on credit terms, the Board quite rightly charges commercial rates of interest. The Government therefore proposes to charge the Wheat Hoard an interest rate higher than the 5 per cent charged last year. Bearing in mind the circumstances of the wheat industry, a rate of 5 per cent is proposed. 
The Bill authorises the Commonwealth to borrow up to $250m to make theloan to the Board. This exceeds the Board's current estimate of the amount required under the guarantee but, as such estimates are subject to substantial variation, the amount specified in the Bill provides a margin in case the estimate proves too low. The Australian Loan Council has agreed to a special borrowing programme for this purpose for the Commonwealth in 1970-71. The terms of the borrowing will be subject to Loan Council approval. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Kennelly)  adjourned. 
(5.0) - I move: 
That  the  Bill  be  now read  a  second time. 
It is customary for national wage case decisions of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, which are applied to the salaries of officers of the Second, Third and Fourth Divisions of the Commonwealth Public Service, to be applied also to the generality of stututory office-holders whose salaries are below those payable to Permanent Heads of Departments of State. This Bill provides for increases of 6 per cent in the salaries of the statutory office-holders shown in the first schedule to the Bill. Honourable senators will appreciate that the rate of increase of 6 per cent is identical with that granted by the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in its 1970 national wage case decision. This Bill is necessary because of the particular legislative provisions existing for the statutory offices referred to in the first schedule to the Bill. In the cases of various other comparable statutory office-holders, approval has been given for the 6 per cent increase to be applied, subject to compliance with the requirements of relevant legislation. The Bill provides that, as in the Commonwealth Public Service, the 6 per cent increase will apply from 14th January 1971. 1 commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator O'Byrne)  adjourned. 
(5.25) - I move: 
That the Bill be  now read a  second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend the Naval Defence Act to enable the Australian Sea Cadet Corps and the Naval Reserve Cadetsto  be  amalgamated into one body. This will bring  the  Navy into line with the Army and the Air Force, each of which operates a single cadet body. The Navy became associated with 2 bodies of cadets as a natural outcome of  the  different waysin which these 2 bodies began and developed. The Naval Reserve Cadets, the older and smaller of these 2 bodies, had its origin in the Defence Act of 1903. which authorised the establishment of bodies of Naval and Military Cadets. From 1909 to 1930 the Naval Reserve Cadets consisted of youths of 12 to 18 years of age who were required to render universal training under the Defence Act. With the discontinuance of universal training in 1930, the Naval Reserve Cadets reverted to a voluntary body and the minimum age was increased to 16 years. Priorto 1952, the units of the Naval Reserve Cadets which has always been wholly run  by  the Navy were attached to Naval Reserve training establishments. Since then 3 units have been formed at schools and in due course the practice of having units attached to Reserve establishments will be discontinued. 
There are about 200 Naval Reserve Cadets, aged from 16 to 19 years, most of whom belong to the 3 units attached to schools. The minimum age will be reduced to 14 years under the amalgamation. The Australian Sea Cadet Corps, on the other hand, comprises some 1,950 cadets divided into 39 units. These have been raised by the Navy League of Australia. The Navy League is a world wide organisation and was founded in the United Kingdom in 1895. Its object, briefly, is education in matters pertaining to the Navy and Merchant Navy. Sea cadets - not to be confused with the sea scouts run by the Boy Scouts Association - had functioned in England from the middle of the 19th century, when seamen returning from the Crimean war had formeda Naval Lads Brigade atWhitstable in Kent. This unit and others became affiliated with the Navy League subsequent to its founding in 1895 and the title 'Navy League Sea Cadet Corps' was adopted. Branches of the Navy League were subsequently established in Australia, commencing with the South Australian Branch in 1914. The New South Wales Branch formed the first sea cadet units in 1921. 
From the beginning, the Navy League Branches sought recognition by, and assistance from, the Naval Board on the lines of that accorded to United Kingdom units by the Admiralty. The Naval Board granted concessions from time to time such as the purchase of naval clothing and preselection of navy boats and other equipment declared for disposal. Full recognition by the Naval Board and the provision of financial assistance could not be provided, partly because the Navy League in Australia had no central organisation with which the Naval Board could deal, and partly because the Naval Board was pressed for sufficient money to keep the Naval Reserves operating and was in no position to provide finance for the Navy League Sea Cadets. At the end of the Second World War there were 8 companies of Navy League Sea Cadets in New South Wales and 4 in Victoria. There was also an unaffiliated unit of cadets on Snapper Island in Sydney Harbour. In all the number of instructors and cadets at that time is estimated at about 300. The question of providing Government assistance for the Navy League Sea Cadets was again raised in 1946. A central council of the Navy League branches was formed in order to make arrangements with the Naval Board, which accorded recognition in principle to the Navy League Sea Cadets in 1947 and provided some practical assistance. A Sea Cadet Council, comprising officers of the Naval Forces, representatives of the Navy League and a merchant shipping representative, was established by the Naval Board in 19S0 to advise the Board on matters relating to the Sea Cadets. 
The title 'Australian Sea Cadet Corps' was adopted. The Naval Defence Act was suitably amended in 1952 and the Australian Sea Cadet Corps regulations were made in 1954. These provided a statutory basis for the role of the Naval Board in the administration of the Corps and the assistance provided by the Board, and also accorded statutory recognition to the Sea Cadet Council. Section 39 of the Naval Defence Act as amended in 1952 empowers the Naval Board to make arrangements with the Navy League of Australia for the instruction and equipment of the Australian Sea Cadet Corps. The aims of the Corps include imparting to the cadets a foundation of naval knowledge and discipline, developing character and good citizenship and the qualities of leadership and self-reliance, and encouraging cadets to continue some form of naval service after leaving school. The ages of cadets range from 14 to 18 years. The division of responsibility between the Naval Board and the Navy League is along the lines that the Naval Board is responsible for training, the provision of uniforms and equipment and of financial assistance under the Australia Sea Cadet Corps regulations. The Navy League on the other hand is concerned with the formation of units, the provision of accommodation and buildings for training, the financial administration of units and with the social and moral welfare of members. 
Since being officially recognised by the Naval Board, the Australian Sea Cadet Corps has expanded significantly whilst the membership of the Navy League has steadily declined to such an extent that it is no longer able to fully discharge its responsibilities in all States. Because of this unsatisfactory position, the Navy League and the Sea Cadet Council have proposed that the Navy should assume complete responsibility for the Corps including, in particu lar, the provision of accommodation for units where necessary. The Naval Board concluded, following a detailed study of the matter, that a continuation of the existing arrangements would lead to a progressive deterioration in the efficiency and viability of certain units of the Corps. This would mean that the value of the Corps to the Navy would lessen. Some units are capable of representing the Navy with credit at public functions. It is true to say that, in small towns where there is a local unit of the Corps, the unit is regarded as the Navy. It is important therefore that the standard of all units reflects favourably upon the parent service. Many people, in fact, are unaware of the involvement of the Navy League and imagine that the Navy controls all aspects of the Corps. The Government has decided therefore that it would be in the best interests of the Cadets and of the Navy, if the Navy were to assume full control of the Corps. With the taking over of the Australian Sea Cadet Corps by the Navy, the perpetuation of 2 separate organisations would be inefficient and unnecessary, and members of the Australian Sea Cadet Corps could appropriately be enrolled in the Naval Reserve Cadets, which, as I have mentioned, is already fully controlled by the Navy. 
Section 38 of the Naval Defence Act makes provision for the Naval Reserve Cadets. As it stands, it will not be suitable to meet all the requirements brought about by such an amalgamation of the 2 cadet organisations. It is necessary to amend the section so that the regulations may provide for officers and instructors - that is the persons who, respectively, supervise a particular unit and train the Cadets - and for certain payments to these persons, such as annual allowances and travelling allowances. These have not previously been requirements for the Naval Reserve Cadets who are at present trained by officers of the Citizen Naval Forces. Section 39 of the Act, which deals with the present dual arrangement with the Navy League, ceases to be required and is repealed by the Bill. Since the Naval Board is already responsible under the existing regulations for the provision of uniforms and equipment and the payment of annual allowances and travelling expenses, the proposal will not involve any increased expenditure on these matters. Expenditure will be involved in improving the accommodation arrangements for certain units. This will not be great and will be spread over a period of some years. The implementation of this programme will necessarily depend upon the recently announced policy of the Government to secure economy in Government expenditures. 
In the meantime, the passing of this Bill will enable the Navy to proceed with the re-organisation of the administration of the various Cadet units. Although the assumption of full control by the Naval Board will remove authority from the Navy League, the Naval Board has advised the various Branches of the Board's wish for them to retain an interest in the units in their areas. This they have agreed to do. The Services' Cadet organisations provide valuable training for boys who are interested in the Navy, the Army or the Air Force. Even where the boys do not ultimately join the Services, the activities instil discipline and develop qualities of leadership and self-reliance and a sense of responsibility - all of which contributes to making them good citizens. At this time I think it fitting to place on record the Government's appreciation of the work of the Navy League in raising and maintaining the Australian Sea Cadet Corps. Although not a large body, the members of the League have supported the units to the extent of their limited financial capacity and have built some first class training centres. Their work with the cadets has been a valuable contribution to the youth of Australia. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator O'Byrne)  adjourned. 
(9.55) - The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  has moved that the matter of pollution be referred to the Standing Committee on Social Environment. I do not oppose this motion. The Senate hai received reports from the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution and the Senate Select Committee on Air Pollution, both of which were chaired by honourable senators from the Government parties. Both committees produced very valuable reports. Therefore it seems to me that this motion is a very natural succession to the reports from those committees. I think there is every reason why the matter mentioned in the motion should be referred lo the new standing committee that the Senate has set up. 

 Senator Davidson, who wa the  Chairman  of the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution, suggested some variation in the wording of the motion without departing from the principle and substance of  Senator Murphy's  proposal. I leave it to  Senator Murphy  to indicate whether ite intends to react to the suggested variation. I do not believe that it is something upon which the Senate should divide or about which an amendment should be moved because all of us are in accord with the principle. 1 find myself in complete agreement with some of the things said in this debate tonight. 1 think that bofh  Senator Murphy  and  Senator Laucke  said that the time has come for action. We have heard the words and there is now a need for more action at this time in our history when we have far greater advantages in tackling this problem than have the denser and smaller countries. If we are vigilant we can seize the nettle and solve the problem with far less difficulty than, for instance, the authorities in Europe, the United States of America and other countries where there are highly concentrated industrial areas with huge populations. 
Perhaps the situation in which I grew up enables me to visualise this problem much better than most people. The family home from which 1 am very proud to have come was on the banks of the Parramatta River in Sydney. 1 think that area was visited on one of the first tours of inspection undertaken by the 2 pollution committees. They visited Hen and Chicken Bay and the area along the river to Flemington and so on. In my young days there was a swimming pool at Meadowbank at Uhr's Point Bridge. There was a little sandy beach on the banks of the Parramatta River. We swam there, but he would be a very courageous man who would even put his foot in the Parramatta River at this stage. If a man fell out of a boat he would want to get out of the water as quickly as he could and then wash himself because the river is polluted. Now I live in an area at Eastwood above the smog line. From my front verandah in the mornings I can look across towards the western suburbs and see the smog line. All of us who travel by air to  and from Sydney at various times see evidence of the industrial pollution, lt is not evident to such an extent in Melbourne. lt is true, as  Senator Laucke  said, that the New South Wales Government made a significant contribution to solving the air pollution problem when it introduced the Clean Air Act. The authorities in London for instance, who face difficulties many times greater than our own, have been able to accomplish much towards solving the problem there. We have had select committees of the Senate investigating water pollution and air pollution and both of them put down comprehensive, intelligent and very worthwhile reports. The Senate has since created the Standing Committee on Social Environment and this motion moved by  Senator Murphy,  subject to adjustment or otherwise of the wording, seems to me to be a natural consequence. I see no reason why we should not give a speedy passage to this motion. 
(4.51)  -  in reply -  Mr Deputy President,  I have to move 2 subsequent motions.I took on board what  Senator Cant  said but his remarks have nothing to do with these motions. If I understood him correctly, he believes there should be legal representation other than Senate representation provided for the Senate Select Committee on Off-shore Petroleum Resources. That suggestion does not require a motion in this Senate; it can be dealt with by the Committee. When the Committee members meet, including the new senator whom I will nominate, it is competent for the Committee to carry a motion to direct a request to the Presiding Officer for legal representation to assist it in completing its report. That is a simple matter. With great respect, it has nothing to do with the motion I moved and upon which we are now going to vote or the 2 subsequent motions I propose to move: 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Motion (by  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson) proposed: 
That  Senator Hannan  be appointed to till the vacancy on the Senate Select Committee on Offshore Petroleum Resources and that the Committee elect a Government member as  chairman. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - Is it the wish of the Senate that the 2 parts of the motion be considered together?  As  there is no objection, that course will be followed. 
by leave - I intervene at this stage to say that the Senate has received 3 messages relating to the Social Services Bill 1971, the Repatriation Bill 1971 and the Seamen's War Pension and Allowances Bill 1971. It is proposed that each be put down in turn and the Minister concerned will adjourn the debate to a later hour of the day. After the third Bill has been put down we will return to them and deal with the second reading debate of the 3 of them. This is a mechanical device. Otherwise, we will have to deal with each separately. We can have a cognate second reading debate and then deal with each in turn in Committee, if that is the will of the Senate. In other words,  Senator Greenwood  will put down the Social Services Bill and adjourn the debate until a later hour. Then  Senator Drake-Brockman  will deal similarly with the Repatriation Bill and the Seamen's War Pension and Allowances Bill. Then we will have a cognate second reading debate and deal with each separately in the Committee stage, if amendments are to be moved. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONAre they to be dealt with in the Committee stage? 

Then we will keep the second reading debates separate. 
(5.56) - The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  moved this motion and spoke to it yesterday. I  regret that  I  was not here when the debate took place. I consider - it also is the view of the Government - that the terms of reference are very wide. One could wonder at the magnitude of the task being put to the Committee. But on balance I think this question should be decided by the Committee when it gets the reference. The most expeditious way to deal with it would be to put the question. Perhaps it could be carried on the voices. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Silting suspended from S.57 to 8 p.m. 
I ask leave of the Senate to bring forward item No. 24 under General Business. This relates to a notice of motion moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  concerning the reference of a matter to a standing committee. In my absence,  Senator Greenwood  graciously moved the adjournment. 
(8.48)  -  In a moment or two I propose to ask that we call on order of the day No. 6, which is the adjourned debate  on  the ministerial statement on the Australian Military Forces in Vietnam, in respect of which  Senator Cavanagh  is listed to continue his remarks. However, before doing that,I should like to go through the notice paper and, strictly with the co-operation of the Senate, perhaps remove some items of business from the notice paper. If the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  and  Senator Gair  have the notice paper in front of them, perhaps, if it is the will of the Senate, we can remove some of the business listed. 
by leave -I wish to inform the Senate that the Minister for Defence  (Mr Gorton)  left on 12th April to represent Australia at the Five Power Ministerial Conference in London on 15th and 16th April and to hold talks with Ministers and defence officials in the United Kingdom. He will then go to Washington for talks with defence officials, returning to Australia on 30th April. During his absence the Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme)  is acting Minister for Defence. 
The Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Bury)  left Australia for London on 11th April to attend the Five Power Ministerial Conference on 15th and 16th April and a South East Asia Treaty Organisation council meeting on 27th and 28th April. While overseas  Mr Bury  will attend a meeting on 23rd April in Washington of countries contributing troops to Vietnam and will go to Geneva to chair a meeting of heads of Australian diplomatic missions.  Mr Bury  is expected back in Australia on 8th May. During his absence the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  is acting Minister for Foreign Affairs. 
The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  left Australia yesterday for Manila to lead the Australian delegation to the twenty-seventh annual session of the Economic Commission for Asia and the Far East beginning today.  Mr Sinclair  is expected to be back in Australia on 27th April. During his absence the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman)  is Acting Minister for Primary Industry. The Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Holten)  will represent the Acting Minister in the House of Representatives. 
by leave -  Mr Deputy President,  the situation as 1 see' it at the moment - and you will appreciate that I am trying to anticipate coming events - is that it is hoped that the present session will conclude in the first week in May. It is the hope of the executive House that the session will conclude at the end of the first week in May. Problems are posed for the Senate because, of necessity, we must wait until we receive legislation from the other place. At the moment only one Bill - that is, the Salaries Bill 1971  -  is before the Senate and we will' deal with that Bill this afternoon. It is difficult to be precise in these matters. This week we will sit normal sitting times. We will sit today, tomorrow and Thursday. General Business will take precedence after 8 o'clock on Thursday night. Next week, Monday is a holiday - at least, it is a holiday in New South Wales. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONIt is a holiday in New South Wales. In any event, the Senate will not be sitting next Monday. If the Senate were to sit next Monday, some of us would have hard decisions to make. The normal procedure would be to sit on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday of next week. If at the beginning of next week I can see some prospects that we could come close to concluding our business at the same time as the other House rises, I would ask the Senate to give consideration to sitting oh Friday of next week. In the following week when the House of Representatives hopes to conclude its business we would have to make a collective judgment as to whether we could complete our functions in that third week of sitting or whether we would need to sit an additional week. If we needed to sit an additional week, obviously we would not wish to be sitting on Friday of that week. The logic of the situation is that we do our best work when we are not under the extreme pressures that, unfortunately, I as Leader of the) Government in the Senate have had to impose on honourable senators from time to time. 
(5.26)  -  in reply - The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  has indicated that the Opposition is not opposed to the second reading of this Bill but that, in the light of what has been done with some other Bills, it wants to add something by way of an addendum.  Senator Murphy  has argued at two levels, one in relation to having information available to the Senate and the other on the basis that these matters should be put in legislative form as salaries and allowances fixed by Parliament, with a special provision for special allowances to be fixed by regulation.  Senator Murphy  tended to argue that this is the new pattern and is what has become accepted. I feel bound to point out to the Senate that that has not always been the circumstance. In fact, the Senate has on a couple of occasions allowed Bills to pass without this addendum. For instance, the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories Bill contained the provisions to which he has objected. He argued that the Senate and the other place have now accepted the principle that in future salaries will be fixed by the Parliament and special allowances will be fixed by regulation which will be subject to disallowance. 
The Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill contained the phrase 'As the Governor-General determines', which was the old method employed. So I do not accept  Senator Murphy's  statement that the Senate has accepted that as a principle. We have debated it on occasions. The Senate has expressed itself on a number of occasions as to the concurrence- 

We will not finish this debate today and  Senator Murphy  may get a chance to respond at the Committee stage. But I want to draw a broad picture. The Commonwealth Serum Laboratories Bill was a more recent Bill which was passed after, as I recall it, we had dealt with some of the things  Senator Murphy  was talking about. I. say this merely to demonstrate that the Government has not accepted it as a principle which it is prepared to adopt completely. There are 2 other points that 1 wish to make. While  Senator Murphy  was speaking to this Bill  Senator Keeffe  asked a question and  Senator Murphy  responded to it, acknowledging that questions had been asked and that comprehensive information was available. 

 Senator Murphy referred to a lack of information. It is true that a fair while ago - I think it was August last year, which was before the crunch - in response to a question answers were given as to what the salaries and special allowances were. The answer went on to say, in effect: It has not been the practice to give this information.' I suppose the answer should have been that it has never been the practice to give that information because nobody had ever asked for it. But when  Senator Murphy, Senator Keeffe  and other honourable senators asked for the information it was made available. I and the Government would be the first to concede, with hindsight, that the answers that were given have perhaps coloured the situation. There is no reason in the world why the information should not be made available. I would say, with the authority of my position, that in the future the information will be prepared and made available. So to the extent, that  Senator Murphy  has entered this debate to make that point I would concede that it is desirable to have the information and that the. Government is prepared in future to table annually a statement showing the salaries, fees and annual allowances of all the holders of statutory offices. So I think we can dispense with that part of  Senator Murphy's  argument. It is true that in the past the information was not given and that when eventually it was given it was said that it was not normal to give that information. I suppose they were talking in terms of the past. The Government is quite prepared in future to table a document annually which will give the information required. 

 Senator Kennelly argued, on one level, about parliamentary salaries - a subject which I will by-pass. But he also had the impression, I thought, that some people would miss out on this provision. This Bill provides for the passing on of the 6 per cent national wage increase to the officers concerned. It does not necessarily follow that everybody should receive such an increase. For instance, parliamentary salaries are not subject to the 6 per cent increase and there are heads of other authorities who are on a fixed salary and therefore are not subject to the provision of the Bill. That will be made clear to the honourable senator when he reads in Hansard what has been said today. 
I wish to reply to a couple of other points that were made by  Senator Murphy  and then I propose to read from a paper I have, because it has been prepared fairly carefully and will make for an economy of words. The Leader of the Opposition tended to argue - although he veered away from it - that the Parliament should be fixing these salaries. This Parliament is not a salary fixing authority. It is fair enough that there should be parliamentary supervision. That is what he has asked for and that is what I have said he will get, but it should never be thought that we will be here determining salaries. I think it would be very unwise if we set up a statutory authority and then decided the salaries of the people who work in it. Traditionally the Parliament has never done that. We do not do it in relation to the Commonwealth Public Service, and I believe we certainly should not start to do so. I do not think  Senator Murphy  would really argue with any force that that is a parliamentary function. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONWe do it for first division officers but we do not go beyond that, for very good and sufficient reasons. The main one is that the Parliament would get itself into awful bother if it started to determine salaries. It would be a disastrous situation if we were subject to the influence of every salary and wage earning group in the Public Service. The Leader of the Opposition started to make a case in relation to variations, and I thought when he dealt with that that he really made the case for the Government rather than a case for the Opposition's point of view. That is the very crunch of the thing. This is a question of degree, a question as to whether a person in a statutory body is part time or full time, whether he is on an allowance of so much an hour or so much a day or whether he is on a fixed fee. lt would seem to me, after listening to the Leader of the Opposition, that all those variations provide the very reason why what he is asking us to do is most undesirable. Indeed, once we did it we would need to face up to the fact that every time we wanted to change it we would have to pass a pedestrian Bill to cover them by way of a schedule. It may very well be that some may need to be changed at the beginning of a session while the case for changing the others may not become apparent for some time. One has a whole series of variations which would seem to me and to the Government a complete justification for not in fact doing what  Senator Murphy  has advocated in his projected amendment. We will not come to the amendment today. Perhaps we will come to it late tomorrow evening or on Thursday. I do not know. I am perfectly willing that  Senator Murphy  should have some discussions with legal officers of the 
Crown, and see what proposals he wants formed into a valid amendment. 1 give no promise that the Government will support the amendment but the system under which we work provides that the course proposed should be adopted. 
I want to crystallise the situation in the few minutes left to me by saying that the Government is prepared in future to table annually a statement showing the salaries, fees and annual allowances of all the holders of statutory offices, perhaps during the Budget session. Action is now in hand for the preparation of a comprehensive schedule. As the Leader of the Opposition has said, this is a big job. A certain degree of research has to be done to obtain this information and when it is produced it has to be completely accurate. It is something which is under consideration for preparation. One of the main factors which have led the Government to see difficulties in adopting as a universal practice the determination of salaries and annual allowances by the Parliament is the diversity of the several hundred statutory offices for which remuneration must be determined and reviewed on a continuing .day to day basis. This requires machinery which has recognised and continuing responsibility for remuneration. Some flexibility is necessary in determining rates, for example, to preserve reasonable relativities between various offices. A change in One area needs to be made with full regard for the implications for other areas! New appointees must constantly be sought. Particularly with new positions, there may be a need to test the market and to match the existing salary of a proposed appointee. I think that was the classic argument in relation to the Australian Industry Development Corporation. The argument was that there was a need to get the person whom we were looking for into the field of Government activity and into a statutory body. We had to have flexibility to seek a person of the required quality on the market. For that reason this seems to me another justification for not taking as a blanket proposition that which has been put to us by the Opposition. 
Given that the Parliament is not in continuous session increases in salaries which, for example are made necessary by such decisions as that in the recent national wage case will often be delayed. An example of this is the Salaries Bill. Delays also add to difficulties of recruitment. The bodies we are considering have all been established by the Parliament which has given them varying degrees of autonomy, including autonomy over the financing of current operations. The proper line of responsibility to Parliament is through the Minister who must be able to attract, or ensure that the authority can attract, senior executives of the right calibre. At this point of time I have said as much as I want to say because in the Committee stages we may have another short debate on this Bill. But I come back to the cardinal things as I see them in the short run in this debate today. It is true that the Senate has altered legislation - it has been accepted in another place - to provide that salaries and certain allowances shall be fixed by the Parliament and to allow by regulation disallowance. To give sufficient time we have done this on a 6-month basis ahead. In other cases we have not chosen to do that. I am drawing on my memory now but I have an idea that the Australian Democratic Labor Party representative spoke on this subject and used the argument that one could not be arbitrary and that it was wrong to try to be arbitrary because there were so many varying circumstances. 

 Senator Murphy made a point in relation to obtaining information. In the past it so happens - as I said with hindsight - that some of the answers left this situation open to misconstruction. The truth is that the information was never sought before. There is no good and sufficient reason why the information should not be supplied and I am prepared to say that the Government will provide the information on some sort of annual basis and will table it in the Parliament. The next point is that Parliament is not a salary fixing authority and should never be. Finally, the whole nature of the variations which exist between all the different statutory bodies - some relating to part time employment, some to fixed salaries, some to daily allowances, some to superannuation and some not - supports the case for the Government and not for the Opposition. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and committed pro forma; progress reported. 
Sitting suspended front 5.42 to 10.20 p.m. 
by leave -I move: 
That in order to enable Senate Estimates Committees D and E to meet from the first ringing of the bells after the dinner adjournment, the sitting of the Senate be suspended from the suspension for dinner thisday until the second ringing of the bells. 
That willbeat approximately  10.45  p.m. That motion means that the bells will be rung after the suspension of the sitting for the dinner adjournment and those  2  Committees will function. The Senate, as a body, will meet at approximately  10.50  p.m., in the normal way 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
by leave - I indicate to the Senate that it is proposed that tonight Estimates Committees B and C will sit. At 2.15 p.m., after the suspension of the sitting for lunch, I shall ask for leave to move the formal motion. The draft motion is not quite ready. If carried, the motion will mean that tonight Estimates Committees B and C will meet and that the Senate will  assemble at 10.15 p.m. for the adjournment. It  is  not proposed that the Senate sit tomorrow. 
by  leave-I  would like to interrupt the debate for one moment to put down the procedure for the remainder of the day after we have disposed of the urgency motion and other matters. I move: 
That Government Business take precedence over General Business after 8 p.m. this day. 
That sittings of the Senate be suspended at the conclusion of consideration of the urgency motion and the introduction of a Bill from the House -of Representatives until the ringing of the bells- at approximately 10.15 p.m. this day. 
That during the suspension Estimates Committees C and D meet from the time ot suspension until 6 p.m. or otherwise as they direct. 
That Estimates Committees B and C meet from 8 p.m. until the resumption of the Senate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
by leave - I think the situation has got a little out of focus.  Senator Wright  has chosen to lay on the table a paper. There is provision for that in the Standing Orders. It is true that  Senator Wright  could have chosen to seek leave to make a statement. It is equally true that he could have done that at a time when we were dealing with business earlier in the day. I must accept some responsibility for the present situation in that I had conveyed to him a message to short circuit that procedure which may have involved the reading, without leave, of the statement. I suggested that he lay the paper on the table. If there is any impropriety suggested- 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONYes. lt is quite open for a Minister to lay a paper on the table. I would not like to think that  Senator Wright  is being accused of any discourtesy to the Opposition. It was to allow the debate on  Senator Devitt's  motion to proceed that  Senator Wright  did what he did. 
(5.45) -I indicate at this stage that Estimates Committees A and D will sit in rooms L17 and L58 respectively for the remainder of today and that Committee B will sit in room L1 7 tomorrow. I ask for leave to propose a motion in relation to the times of the sitting of the Senate. 
by leave - I wish to move 2 motions relating to the business of the Senate. One relates to the Estimates committees and the other relates to the hours of sitting of the Senate. I am hopeful that the Senate will co-operate with me on both proposals. Therefore, I do not suppose it matters which one I take first.  Mr Deputy President,  I seek leave to move the first motion. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - There being no objection, leave is granted. 
I move: 
That Estimates Committee A and Estimates Committee D have leave to meet during the sitting of the Senate this day and that Estimates Committee B have leave to meet during the sitting of the Senate tomorrow, Thursday, 29th April. 
I wish to give briefly the reason for moving this motion: The resolution which the Senate agreed to in relation to the Estimates committees provides that they shall report to the Senate by 29th April, which is tomorrow. This would in turn involve the Committee of the Whole in the process of dealing with Appropriation Bill (No. 3) and Appropriation Bill (No. 4). Only supplementary Estimates are involved. In the 18 years I have been a member of this chamber we have always dealt with the supplementary Estimates almost by a straight resolution as they have come from the other place. The supplementary Estimates are to meet the excess expenditure which will be incurred in the balance of this financial year. 
It is with great reluctance that I have moved this motion. I realise it involves a controversial subject and I am not walking away from that fact. However, the position is that if the Senate does not resolve that the Estimates committees to which I have referred can meet today and tomorrow during the sitting of the Senate they will be obliged to come back tomorrow and report to the Senate that they have not concluded their examination in the time which has been available to them and the Senate will have to go through the exercise of making up its mind whether to open up the discussion of the Estimates in the same way it has done in the past. I want to avoid that if possible. I am sure that nobody else wants to follow this practice. Therefore, I have taken this extreme measure. I recognise it is an extreme measure. I do not want it to be regarded as in any way setting a precedent to be followed when the Senate is dealing with the Estimates in the Budget session. As only supplementary Estimates are involved, I have moved that the Estimates committees to which I have referred be given leave to sit today and tomorrow to clear up any outstanding matters. Two of the Committees have completed their work. Committees A, B and D have work to do. In certain circumstances the Senate has allowed committees to sit while the Senate is sitting. A fortnight or 3 weeks ago it allowed the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange to sit for practically a week while the Senate was sitting. 
That is why I said atthe start that I did not want this to be regarded as a precedent. I am not suggesting for one moment that this should be regarded as a precedent. The alternative would be for the 
Committees to report to the Senate. They are doing good work. 1 think that in the time allotted to them they could finish their work and report back and when they report to the Senate, the Senate, as a body, will have a better opportunity to examine their work than if permission for them to sit were not granted. Perhaps I could foreshadow something that may have some related significance. I bad in mind to move the re-arrangement of business so that the Public Order (Protection of Persons and Property) Bill could be debated. I know that many honourable senators want to speak on the Bill.  Senator Murphy  has indicated that already. I want to get on with it. The other place is prognosticating that it will rise on 7th May. We will need a very tight programme if we are to stay as close to it as we can. Finally, the Department of the Treasury asked originally that the supplementary Estimates be passed by 29th April. Because of misadventure, we set the date for report by the Estimates Committees as 29th April. I am under tremendous pressure from Commonwealth Treasury officials to get the Appropriation Bills passed. That is the justification for the unusual procedure that I am adopting. 
I realise that this is departing from the usual order of business, but  Senator Murphy  has on the notice paper a notice of motion to refer a matter to the Standing Orders Committee. If it is the will of the Chair I am quite happy for the matter to be brought on and for the motion to be moved. I seek leave to do that. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - Is leave granted? 
I agree I would like him to explain what we are agreeing to. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThis is a valid question. Perhaps I was a little abrupt in my procedure. I am referring to notice of motion 'No. 9 standing in the name of  Senator Murphy.  This relates to a question of privilege. I have indicated to  Senator Murphy  that standing order 33a should go to the Standing Orders Committee and he understands my reasons for saying that. In order to facilitate matters I intervened to achieve the very purpose of referring the matter to the Standing Orders Committee. 
(9.55)  -  1 accept some of the significant comments made by  Senator Willesee  on the proposal that the Senate take note of the paper. Apparently  Senator Greenwood  has been involved in this matter and he may well wish to continue his interest in it. I am -sure that he will, but. it is a question of how he displays and applies that interest.  Senator Willesee  asked me to initiate some further inquiries to see what regard had been given to the debate in this chamber on the motion to take note of the paper after  Senator Wright  presented it in February. I will certainly undertake to do that. 

 Senator Byrne in his comments made reference to the creation of the Office of the Parliamentary Counsel. I. think it is fair to say that that Office .was created less than .12 months, ago, in. about mid-May 1970. This matter was raised originally in the Estimates Committee in about September. I do not think the Parliamentary Counsel could have hoped by that time to have made any significant impact on the issues involved. Indeed, I would think that even at this time the Parliamentary Counsel is still trying to fill "the positions that the Act provided for him. We all know that the basic problem is the inability to obtain the necessary skilled people. That is why the Parliamentary Counsel Bill stepped outside the bounds of the Public Service. For that very reason I think it is still early days to expect the results from the Parliamentary Counsel that  Senator Byrne  reflects upon. However, I will accept the- responsibility to take up the matter he has raised and circulate a memorandum in order to ascertain whether anything further can be done in relation to this matter. I move: 
That General Business Order of the Day No. 18 be made an order of the day for the next day of sitting. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
(9.3) -  Mr Deputy President,  in my zeal to work on the notice paper I moved, and the Senate resolved accordingly, that the Senate take note of the interim report from the Senate Select Committee on Off-Shore Petroleum Resources. I understand that I was a bit over-enthusiastic. Therefore I move: 
That the adjourned debate on the motion 'That the Senate take note of the report' be recommitted and made an order of the day for the next day of sitting. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
(8.30) - Tonight we are dealing with general business and not Governmen business as such. At this point of time we are dealing with Orders of the Day and Notices of Motion under General Business. With the co-operation of the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  and other honourable senators I propose to go through the items listed under Orders of the Day - there are some 24 of them - to see whether we can remove some of them, perhaps by taking note of the paper where that is the motion before the Senate. After doing that I would like to go on and deal with General Business, Notices of Motion, in my capacity as a senator as distinct from my responsibility as Leader of the Government in the Senate. Notices of Motion Nos 5 and 6 which stand in my name are matters which are debatable and arguable, and I think they are worthy of consideration. If it is the will of the Senate and if time permits, I would like to call them on tonight so that we can have some discussion on them. 
Before I proceed to go through these items in this fashion perhaps  Senator Murphy  may wish to respond on the generality of what I propose. If he agrees and the Senate agrees with what I propose we can commence to go through these items as a team effort. 
(9.7) - I moved the adjournment of this debate last November. I am not prepared to continue at this moment. I am in the situation of doing the pedestrian work and I have not been able to put my mind to the speech I want to make. I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later date. Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
(10.22)  -  The situation is that  Senator Milliner  was in the course of making his remarks on this matter. He is not present and therefore I move: 
That the debate be made an Order, of the Day for the next day of sitting. 
Questions resolved in the affirmative. 
(5,5) - 1 would like to respond to  Senator Murphy's  comment that in some respects we are in a narrow field of perhaps opposite views. The area is narrow in one way but yet within the significance of the proposed amendment there is a wide coverage - perhaps an absolute coverage. I am sure  Senator Murphy  is aware, and I am sure  Senator Byrne  is aware of it too because he has had discussions with  Senator Murphy,  that I could stand in my place and argue that the proposed amendment is in conflict with standing order 201. I am equally aware that  Senator Murphy  by way of research through the Public Service Board and the Parliamentary Counsel has endeavoured to obtain a formula to arrive at his amendment. I do not feel disposed to push my point of order. I think perhaps historians will look at this matter one day and say that this is a case where the Leader of the Government in the Senate failed to take every point. But if one takes a point one always gets a point in return. I am conscious of that fact. If I took the point of order  Senator Murphy  could go about his amendment in another way. Perhaps we can let the point of order pass by and come to the matter of substance. 
I am very much aware that over a period of time - I do not know whether it is 6 months or 12 months - in many instances Bills have come here which have included the words: 'As the Governor-General directs'. Honourable senators have set their hearts against these words and voted to insert a 6-months sanction and so make it as Parliament directs'. There has been a procedure for the salaries and allowances to appear in the Appropriation Bill with the qualification that where there are special allowances they would be subject to disallowance. I am aware of this. I think that is what  Senator Murphy  was referring to. I am equally aware that we have let Bills go through without a reference to that situation. I think the last such Bill was the Overseas Telecommunications Bill. As  Senator Murphy  knows the Australian Labor Party has a vigilant  deputy  - I am referring to  Senator Douglas  McClelland - who speaks with great authority on telecommunications matters. That is a case in which the Senate did not respond to the proposal. 
If honourable senators opposite did not notice it that is fair enough. 1 am not saying that in a charitable way. But the will of the Senate did not reflect an almost unanimous decision. I want to give 2 assurances. I hope that  Senator Murphy  will withdraw his amendment when I give these assurances because it seems to me that we are getting close to agreement. The first assurance is one which I gave during the second reading speech when I said that the Government was prepared at least annually to put down a document which would cover the whole field in relation to emoluments, stipends, part time allowances and the whole variety of allowances. Once this document is put down it alerts the Senate to any particular aspect.  Senator Murphy  knows that to obtain this information from the Public Service Board requires a lot of research because we are going back a long way. I have had a document prepared for me by the Public Service Board which gives some of the historical background. This procedure started back in 1911, I think in Deakin's time. When the Commonwealth Bank Act was introduced Fisher was the Minister and it had words in it similar to: 'As the Governor-General directs'. This also occurred in  Mr Hughes's  time, during the time of the Bruce-Page Government, the Curtin Government and the Chifley Government. By the honourable senator's standards those governments were bad offenders. But that is history. It is not simple to do what the honourable senator wants to do by way of a dragnet provision to bring all Acts into line. 
I give a second assurance in good faith. As would be appreciated, when Bills with this provision in them are coming to this place, as a Cabinet Minister and an honourable senator with responsibilities I always receive a red light signal somewhere in my head. I am in the process of preparing a submission to the Government pointing out that this is obviously a matter which requires the support of honourable senators. I am speaking not only about honourable senators opposite but also honourable senators on the Government side because these amendments would not be passed unless there was a degree of support from the Government side and also from the Australian Democratic Labor Party. Apart from occasions when honourable senators did not see the provision, they have strongly held the view that salaries should be determined as the Parliament directs, with a qualification for disallowance in regard to special allowances. 1 say in good faith that I am putting this submission to the Government. It will be a matter for the Government to decide. The work is going on. The schedules of information are being prepared. I am in the process of putting a view to the Government on the matter. At this stage that is all that I can commit myself to. I hope that honourable senators will not want to come to the matter of substance in the amendment. I think it would be reasonable to withdraw it and let the Bill pass. 
Perhaps I could do that quickly before the next matter is called on. The Senate business paper shows that General Business is to take precedence after 8 p.m. We also have to take the reports of the Estimates Committees. They will be presented by the various chairmen who will move that the papers be printed. That is not Government business; that is parliamentary business. As soon as the various 5 reports are ready they will be brought up. It will not take very long. At 8 o'clock tonight we will move on to General Business, orders of the day. The first item shown in the notice paper is the Death Penalty Abolition Bill.  Senator Murphy  will make his second reading speech on that Bill and then a Government Minister will move for the adjournment of the debate. The second item is the Constitution Alteration (Tertiary Education) Bill.  Senator Turnbull  will make his second reading speech on that Bill and again a Government Minister will move for the adjournment of the debate. The third item is the Commonwealth and State revenue - proposed Joint Select Committee, which was initiated on the motion by  Senator Little.  1 understand that  Senator Little  is not desirous of speaking tonight. In any event,  Senator Cotton  is in continuation and 1 think we could defer that one. 
Then what I propose to do, with the concurrence of the Senate, is to go progressively through General Business items - there are quite a lot of them - to see whether we can clean some of them up. Where the motion is that the Senate take note of the paper, if the senator in whose name it appears wishes to continue with his comments he may do so. Where the motion is that the Senate take note of the paper but it is a matter that has been on the notice paper for a long time, if the mover is agreeable, it will be removed from the Business Paper. 
That would be right enough, but I point out that I looked at this question, loo. In fact, my own Whip pointed it out to me in fairness to my own Government senators, and I looked at it again. There are a tremendous number of items. It is obvious that some of them will be taken off the notice paper or deferred. In most cases the motion is that the Senate take note, anyway, and I do not think that they will excite very great debate. But if in the dinner break it can be localised, as  Senator Byrne  has suggested, we will certainly localise it and let honourable senators know. Speeches are to be made in relation to at least the first 2 matters, and I believe there are some others. If we dispose of orders of the day we can then move on under General Business to notices of motion. There are several in my name which I would like to project. For instance, notice of motion No. 5 is in my name. That motion proposes that debate on urgency motions should not exceed 2 hours. There is one other notice of motion there in relation to the appointment of a Standing Orders Committee, which I also have in mind we should dispose of at an appropriate time. So I want to have a clean up process under General Business tonight. 
I am perfectly happy to do that. It is a long hard haul because this is a big Senate and getting the individual senators to give an indication of their desires at short notice is not easy. I think the Whips between 6 p.m. and 8 p.m. could put their hands to it and see what comes up. I accept  Senator Byrne's  suggestion that we deal with the first 2 orders. of the day and if we then find something which may precipitate a real debate we should have some idea about it. Perhaps we should let the Whips, of whom  Senator Byrne  is one, go to work to see what they can do. 
by leave  -  I want to say something directed to  "Senator Kennelly.  Yesterday the Senate debated certain motions relating to sitting times.  Senator Kennelly  and I had words with one another. I think we were both speaking completely out of character. To err. is human but to forgive is divine. Perhaps I was over-reacting. I regret that the incident occurred and I know that he regrets that it occurred. I would like to think that we can let it pass by and not interfere with our otherwise happy relations. 
(3.22) - The first question asked by  Senator Keeffe  related to workers compensation, did it not? 

The unforeseen workers compensation payment related to the payment to the widow of an employee of the Weapons Research Establishment who was killed whilst travelling to work on 23rd February 1970. Authority to make the. compensation payment was not handed down until 30th September 1970. The amount of $10,000 therefore could not be included in the Budget Estimates. In answer to the honourable senator's second question, the number of sheep at the Weapons Research Establishment at 30th June 1970 was 6,275 and on 31st December 1970 it was 5,362. The profit on sheep operations at the Weapons Research Establishment for 1969-70 was $7,626. The saving of $6,000 is being effected by the changeover from manual crutching to a chemical method and by letting the number of sheep in the flock run down. 
The third question related to laundry. Further investigations have revealed that the savings of $4,000 on laundry at the Weapons Research Establishment will not now be effected due to cost increases, and it will be necessary to seek other avenues of cost saving to limit the cash demand to that sought by way of additional estimates. Between the preparation of the Estimates documents and the time they were dealt with, a new situation has emerged owing to increased costs.  Senator Murphy  asked a question on Division 738. The answer is as follows: The contract for computer aided services for micro-electronics was awarded to Scientific Computer Systems Ltd of Sydney at a cost of $75,000. 
With your indulgence,  Sir, I  would like to make a quick comment before I move . for the suspension of Standing Orders. If I can accomplish Appropriation Bill (No. 3) 1970-71 and Appropriation. Bill (No. 4) 1970-71 today and get the messages on the slate I will feel that I have done a good day's work. 
 Standing Orders suspended. 
No. They are separate. 
 Whereas in accordance with international law 
Australia as a coastal state has sovereign rights over the continental shelf beyond the limits of Australian territorial waters for the purpose of exploring it and exploiting its natural resources: 
This is a clear statement by the Commonwealth Parliament that it is a coastal state which has constitutional rights over the area of the continental shelf.  Senator Webster  - That, of course, means the Commonwealth, does it not? 
And whereas Australia is a party to this Convention on the Continental Shelf signed at Geneva on the twenty-ninth day of April, One thousand nine hundred and fifty-eight, in which those rights are defined: 
And whereas the exploration for and the exploitation of the petroleum resources of submerged lands adjacent to the Australian coast would be encouraged by the adoption of legislative measures applying uniformly to the continental shelfand to the sea-bed and subsoil beneath territorial waters: 
The first matter to which I draw the attention of the Senate is that as a result of evidence given before the Senate Select Committee on Off-Shore Petroleum Resources which was inquiring into the legislationthe Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act: - it was revealed that there were serious weaknesses in that legislation, particularly in Part II which has for its purpose the application of the laws operative in the States, whether they be Commonwealth laws, State laws or common law, in areas adjacent to the States. Some of the learned witnesses who appeared before the Committee cast grave doubt on whether Part II did, in fact, do what the Commonwealth set out to accomplish. As a result, at a meeting of Attorneys-General held in Hobart in March 1969 it was agreed between all parties that section 9, which is the section that applies the laws, would be amended. I emphasise the date. In March 1969 this agreement was arrived at. If one goes to the non-justiciable agreement which underpins the petroleum submerged lands legislation, in clause 6 of that agreement it will be found that no amendment can be made to the legislation unless there is unanimous agreement between the 7 governments. In March 1969 the 7 governments agreed to amend the legislation.I am advised by one of my colleagues who is skilled in the law that the amendment as agreed to would eliminate much of the objection and doubt which Professor O'Connell, a highly trained lawyer, had expressed concerning the application of the law. We find that South Australia amended particularly section 9 which is the section about which I am speaking. There are other sections but I am referring particularly to section 9. The South Australian Parliament amended its legislation in November 1969. Western Australia amended its legislation in November 1970. The Commonwealth, Tasmania Victoria, New South Wales, Queensland and the Northern Territory - which would amend by ordinance - have not made any amendment. I shall again read the third paragraph of the preamble to the legislation. It states: 
And whereas the exploration for and the exploitation of the petroleum resources of submerged lands adjacent to the Australian coast would be encouraged by the adoption of legislative measures applying uniformly to the continental shelf and to the sea-bed and subsoil beneath territorial water: 
apply to the provisions of any law or instrument that is not within, the authority of the Parliament or Government of the Commonwealth; 
The Commonwealth can transport laws into adjacent areas only if they are laws which are capable of being passed by this Parliament: Honourable senators will know the restrictions that are in the Constitution of the Commonwealth. Sub-section (2.) reads:   .The provisions referred to in. the last preceding sub-section apply to and in relation to all acts, matters, circumstances, and things touching, concerning, arising out of or connected with the exploration of the sea-bed or subsoil of the adjacent area for petroleum and the exploitation of the natural ' resources, being petroleum, of that sea-bed or subsoil, and. not otherwise . . . 
This sub-section threw grave doubts upon whether, in the event of criminal acts being committed out to sea on oil drilling rigs, pipe laying barges or those sorts of things, the Commonwealth Crimes Act or the States criminal code applied. In the opinion of Professor O'Connell the Crimes Act did not apply. 
The amendment seeks to overcome that position.  Senator Greenwood  was kind enough to give me advice. He was of the opinion that the amendment does cover most of the things raised by Professor O'Connell. Therefore it is important for the legislation to be amended in accordance with the unanimous agreement entered into between the parties in March 1969. 
I would think that we cannot get thi* legislation amended by. this Parliament before the Budget session, although it was about this time last year that I asked the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  when the amendment would  bs  passed through this Parliament. The answer was that he did not think it would be possible to do it during the autumn session of last year but it would be done , in the Budget session of that year. It has not been done. It is not proposed to bc done during this autumn session. It is now 2 years since the parties unanimously agreed to the amendment. 
I read . in the newspapers this morning that the Victorian Parliament has gone into recess for the winter. So it is obvious that this legislation cannot pass through the Victorian Parliament before it resumes for its Budget session later this year. I do not know the position with respect to the Parliaments of New South Wales and Queensland nor do I know the position with respect to the Legislative Council for the Northern Territory. But I regard this matter as of such importance that some urgent action should be taken to have legislation promulgated. It has been drafted; it has passed through 2 State Houses of Parliament. lt must pass through the other 5 Houses of Parliament and the Northern Territory Legislative Council in the same form. For this to be done would only require the legislation to be printed, and I say that it should be done. 
Section 101 of the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act allows the Designated Authority - that is the officer in charge of the legislation in each of the States, generally the Minister for Mines in that State - to give directions to a permittee or a licensee, that is, an individual or corporation that has been issued with a permit to explore for oil or an individual or corporation that has been given a licence to exploit petroleum, to use the words of the 
Act, which has been found. Those directions may be given on any matter upon which regulations may be made. The directions may be contrary to the regulations, if regulations have been made. To date regulations have not been made. The directions can' override the regulations. In other words, the directions given by the Designated Authority can wipe out anything that this Parliament has done. But the important part of it is that the directions may be given only to the permittee and the ' licensee. As honourable senators will know, most if not all of the work that is carried out is being carried out by contractors. At least that is the position in Bass Strait. The Designated Authority in the States is unable to give directions to a contractor to carry out work, as provided in section 97 of the Act, for the health, weir fare and safety of the work force. The Designated Authority is not capable of directing a contractor to do that. If he gives a direction the contractor can ignore it. It is not binding upon him. 
The amendment agreed to in March 1969 sought to recover this position and allow the Designated Authority to. direct anyone in the field - contractor, permittee, licensee or the holders of any other documents. It is important that this should bc done. I am not saying that contractors in . Bass Strait and off the north west coast are doing as they like, but they could be able to do as they like. The meeting of AttorneysGeneral in Hobart which was called as a result of evidence given to the Senate Select Committee on Off-shore Petroleum Resources saw the seriousness of this position and agreed unanimously that the legislation should be amended. Yet more than 2 years after that agreement was arrived at we find that the legislation has not been amended. 
I wish now to direct my attention to Appropriation Bill (No. 3). I hope to be able to ask some questions in relation to the appropriations during the Committee stage of the Bill, but there is a particular matter I want to bring to the attention of the Senate. When the then Treasurer presented the Budget on 18th August last year he said: 
Since total expenditure is estimated at $7, 883m the Budget shows a surplus of $4m. 
However, when speaking about the Post Office - I take the Post Office as only one example of what is going on - the then Treasurer said in the same speech: 
To avoid a Post Office loss this year, and to enable the Post Office to make its contribution to financing the desired capital programme, it is proposed to raise charges to increase receipts by about $42m in 1970-71 and about $53m in a full year. The proposed increases cover postal charges, telephone rentals, the telephone connection fee and charges for certain other services. The PostmasterGeneral will presently give further details. 
When we look at the current estimates we find that some very large supplementary appropriations are sought by some departments - not all departments - in Appropriation Bill (No. 3). We are told that the reason for the increases in postal, telegraph and tele-' phone charges is that costs have increased since 1st October 1970, which is when thelegislation was passed in this place. But we find that the extra $42m that is sought- to be gathered into the Treasury by the increase in postal, telegraph and telephone charges is not a consideration in respect of receipts and expenditure for the year when the Budget! is presented. Therefore it is not correct for the Treasurer to say that he provides for a surplus of $4m because the departments between them will have to expend their proportion - not the whole - of the increased charges amounting to $42m. Let us take it that the Commonwealth is a 30 per cent contributor to the charges made by the PostmasterGeneral's Department. We find that the Commonwealth Government's additional expenditure will be $21m, yet the Treasurer comes into the Parliament and makes a statement that there will be a $4m surplus. - This is government by deceit. It is government that takes no account of increased expenditure by the Commonwealth for various departments because the Government says that this cannot be estimated. 
The Government says that when a department makes up its estimates of expenditure for the year - they have to be made about May or early June for consideration by the Cabinet - that department has no knowledge of what another department may be doing with respect to increased charges. It is unable to make an estimate in advance for increased charges made by another department. I suggest that in the computer age adjustments in expenditure can be made within hours and, in many cases, within minutes. I suggest that when it is found that the estimates of expenditure by the various departments reach a particular figure and the estimates of extra revenue that is to come to the Commonwealth due to various departments raising charges on the Commonwealth and the people are known, the adjustments to the estimates of the various departments can be made very quickly. In this way as near as possible to a correct picture can be placed before the people at Budget time. I do not criticise the Treasurer in person in any way. He is the functionary, for good or ill, who has to carry out this job on behalf of the nation. No criticism is intended of the character of whoever holds the office. But he comes into the Parliament and tells . the people of Australia, through an official document, that, the Commonwealth will have a surplus of $4m for the year without any regard to the extra SI 20m of additional appropriations that are required in these supplementary' estimates. 
 We know that there will be additional receipts by the Treasury. The increase granted in the national wage case is estimated to have put several hundred million dollars into the' coffers of the Treasury; so if is quite likely that there will be a bigger surplus than the $4m' which the Treasurertold the people there would be. That increase 'was outside the control of the Department. The things that were within the control of the Parliament, that is, the additional charges that will have to be met and that are not taken into consideration when the estimates are brought up, have been completely ignored. 
 There is one other matter I want to refer to. I ask you,  Mr Deputy President,  to advise .me whether I am in order in raising it. I want to refer to the charges that are being inquired into at HMAS Leeuwin', the Fremantle naval depot. I think every honourable senator here would have knowledge of accusations, of allegations, that are being made with respect- 
(3.17)  -  I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
With the concurrence of honourable senators,I incorporate my second reading speech in Hansard. 
The purpose of this Bill is to obtain Parliamentary authority for expenditure in the current financial year for which provision was not made in the Appropriation Act (No. 1) 1970-71. The total appropriations sought in this Bill amount to $120,968,000. The Schedule to this Bill is the same as that contained in the document entitled 'Particulars of Proposed Provision for Additional Expenditure for the Service of the Year Ending 30 June 1971', which was referred on 7th April for examination by the Senate Estimates Committees. Although additional appropriations are being sought, actual expenditure will not exceed the amounts included in Appropriation Act (No.1) 1970-71 by $120,968,000. As a result of measures taken to reduce Commonwealth expenditure this year, and for other reasons, it is expected that savings of about $50m will be available in existing appropriations to offset the additional appropriations now proposed. 
It is not possible, for reasons associated with parliamentary control over the appropriation of moneys for specified purposes, to utilise these savings as an offset in the sense that the total new appropriations sought can be reduced to a net figure in this Appropriation Bill. Thus I am seeking parliamentary authority for additional expenditure in the divisions, subdivisions and items set out in the Schedule to the Bill. To the extent that an item of any annual appropriation is unexpended the appropriation lapses at 30th June in accordance with section 36 of the Audit Act 1901-1969. I think that honourable senators should recognise the fact that when the then Prime Minister announced on 16th February the Government's intention to reduce expenditures in 1970-71 by $75m in the remainder of the financial year, the revised Estimates as at December 1970 indicated a net increase of $242m in expenditure since the Budget was prepared. This is the primary reason why, despite the cut-back in 
Government spending, it is necessary to ask the Parliament for additional appropriations. 
This Bill - and the companion Bill - deals only with annual appropriations of the Consolidated Revenue Fund. It does not deal with special or standing appropriations; nor does it involve the Loan Fund. The reductions announced by the Prime Minister, on the other hand, relate to Commonwealth spending as a whole. In referring to the intended reduction of $75m in total Commonwealth spending, I should make it clear that at the time it was recognised that further commitments would arise and would need to be considered against the background of the Government's decision. Since then, the Government has approved further commitments but, for the most part, these are special appropriations and are thus not included in the Appropriation Bills (No. 3) and (No. 4). As the various items included in this Bill have been examined by the Estimates Committees, I propose to refer only to some of the major provisions. 
The additional requirement for departmental salaries is $32. 3m and provides for increases in salaries arising from the national wage case, increases in salaries for the Third Division of the Commonwealth Public Service and increases arising from other arbitration determinations, reclassification of offices and additional staff positions approved earlier in the financial year. Further appropriations totalling $13. 6m are required for departmental administrative expenses, including $2.1m for overseas representation;$1. 5m for rents; $0.5m for consultants and architects fees; and $2.3m for increased allowances and other benefits for overseas officers of the Papua New Guinea Public Service as a result of the flow-on of recent salary increases in the Commonwealth Public Service. The balance is made up of a considerable number of appropriations each of which is less than $500,000. 
Additional appropriations amounting to $20m for departmental other services include $1.7m for the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation; $1.3m for Commonwealth scholarships; $1.9m for educational purposes in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory mainly for increases in teachers' salaries; $lm for aid to Pakistan and Cambodia; $1.2m for embarkation and passage costs for migrants; $2.5m for broadcasting and television services; $1.2m for war and service pensions and allowances; $1.3m for other repatriation benefits; and $2.8m for grants under the Aged Persons Homes Act. The balance is made up of a number of appropriations each of which is less than $500,000. 
Additional appropriations from the Consolidated Revenue Fund totalling $55m are sought for defence services, including about $35m for increases in Services pay and allowances and increases in salaries of civilian staff, arising mainly from the national wage case and other determinations. However, it is expected that there will be savings of $26m in other defence appropriations and $17m in the Loan Fund. In part these arise from a lower than expected rate of expenditure under the United States Defence Credit Agreement and as a result of rephasing of and lags in both orders and deliveries of defence goods; and to agreed reductions in Commonwealth expenditure in response to the request of February 1971. It is expected that total expenditure from the Consolidated Revenue Fund and Loan Fund on defence services in 1970-71 will exceed the Budget estimate by about $12m. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Schedule. 
(8.0) - I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to obtain parliamentary authority to increase the number of Ministers by one. Section 65 of the Constitution, coupled with section 51, placitum 36, gives to the Parliament, and to it alone, authority to vary the number of 
Ministers of State. The additional Minister, which it is the purpose of the Ministers of State Bill to provide, will bring the number of Ministers of State approved by Parliament to 27. Clause 4 of the Bill provides for payment at the rate applicable to Ministers not in the Cabinet. 
Three major considerations have led the Government to propose an increase in the number: Firstly, a desire to allocate to a separate portfolio some important matters which could only otherwise be handled by a senior Minister by adding unduly to the responsibilities now imposed upon him. 1 mention particularly the discharge of Commonwealth responsibilities in the fields of Aboriginal affairs, the arts and the environment. Second, there are administrative advantages in placing With a single new Minister and Department a group of specialised general service functions which have hitherto been attached to a number of departments. Thirdly, and in association with the creation of the new Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet, the additional Minister and Department will permit the Prime Minister to discharge more effectively his main functions, which are leadership of the Government and administration of the Cabinet system. 
Before discussing these matters further, I think it will assist honourable senators if I list the functions which at this stage will be under the administration of the new Minister. These are: 
Aboriginal Affairs, including responsibility for the Council for Aboriginal Affairs and the Australian Institute of Aboriginal Studies. 
Activities relating to the environment, including responsibility for the Office of the Environment. 
Activities relating to the arts and letters, including responsibility for the Australian Council for the Arts; the Australian National Gallery; the Commonwealth Art Advisory Board; the Historic Memorials Committee; the Commonwealth Literary Fund; and the Commonwealth Assistance to Australian Composers Advisory Board. 
National Library of Australia. 
Commonwealth Archives Office. 
Australian War Memorial. 
Anzac Agency, Commonwealth War Graves Commission. 
Activities relating to the production of Australian films, including responsibility for the Australian Film Development Corporation and the National Film and Television Training School. 
Grants to national organisations 
World expositions 
National Radiation Advisory Committee 
Certain general service functions, including responsibility for the Australian Government Publishing Service; the Government Printing Office; the Commonwealth Advertising Division; and the Commonwealth Stores Supply and Tender Board which are within the division of the Commonwealth Treasury. 
It has been decided that, in addition to these functions, administration of Commonwealth activities in the rapidly developing and increasingly important field of tourism, including the activities of the Tourist Commission, should be placed with the new Minister. Overall policy on matters relating to tourism will remain, as at present, with the Minister for Trade and Industry. 
Following a review by the departments concerned, it has also been decided that an Overseas Property Branch should be established. The Bureau will be a specialist agency charged with a functional responsibility for the provision, management and maintenance of overseas land and property for Commonwealth purposes. It will not detract from the responsibilities of other departments or Heads of Mission for the effective operation of overseas posts and will be assisted by an Advisory Overseas Property Committee composed of senior representatives of those departments. The operations of the Bureau will help departments and heads of mission to concentrate on their principal task of representation. Administration of the Bureau will be placed within the new Department, as an additional general service function for which the Minister will assume responsibility. 
The administration of Aboriginal affairs and of Commonwealth functions in the fields of the arts and the environment are among those to be transferred to the new Minister. It is the Government's view that it is now appropriate to separate these 3 functions from the Prime Minister's own administration. The Prime Minister has said that, while he will continue to have a deep interest in them, it is not necessary, for that purpose, that he remain the responsible Minister. I now mention briefly each of these 3 functions because of their importance in the new Ministry. 
The effect of the successful referendum in 1967 was to give the Commonwealth Parliament power to make laws in relation to the Aboriginals, as it already could for the people of any other race. Following the overwhelming vote of the people the then Prime Minister,  Mr Holt,  judged that initially the administration by the Commonwealth of Aboriginal Affairs should be within the Prime Minister's responsibility. A Council for Aboriginal Affairs was established and a Minister, though necessarily occupying another portfolio, was appointed Minister in Charge of Aboriginal Affairs under the Prime Minister. It is now thought to be opportune to entrust this important responsibility to the new Minister, as one of his major functions. 
As the welfare and development of Aboriginals affect more than 1 department, a ministerial committee will be appointed to study the special needs and problems of Aboriginals and to advise ways of improving them. In this connection, I invite the attention of the Senate to the statement on Aboriginal Affairs which the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  read on behalf of the Prime Minister at a recent meeting in Cairns of the Australian Aboriginal Affairs Council, which is composed of Commonwealth and State Ministers responsible for Aboriginal affairs. In the field of the arts, the Commonwealth is becoming increasingly involved and is giving assistance in a wide variety of forms. The Government has no doubt that this is widely welcomed. We ought to continue to develop in this field and we will. But the increasing variety of Commonwealth involvement again suggests that the time has arrived where the functions can be transferred to a new Minister. In addition to responsibility for the Council for the Arts, the new Minister will be responsible for the National Library, for the Australian National Gallery, and for assistance to Australian authors and composers. All these are related functions and can usefully be put in the charge of one Minister. 
There is what has come to be called 'the environment'. An office to bring together and generally to superintend the Commonwealth's work and responsibilities in the environmental field is a new initiative, and an important one. Commonwealth activities in this field are beginning to gather moment, and will need the attention of a Minister. Responsibility for them, too, mav now with advantage be moved to the new Minister. Putting these proposals in another way, the Commonwealth initiatives in Aboriginal affairs and the arts have now achieved a status and a level of activity that require separate administration. It has seemed desirable at the same time to add what will be a rapidly developing role in relation to the environment. 
The second main reason for creating the new portfolio is that there is a range of what might be termed 'general service' activities which are at present allocated among various departments. In each case the activities are not directly related to the primary purpose of those departments, but they have an important contribution to make to the effective functioning of the administration as a whole. Examples are the activities comprehended within the Australian Government Publishing Service, the Commonwealth Archives Office, preparation for world expositions and the new Overseas Property Bureau. Each of these functions involves the provision of services in important areas for all or a number of departments. The Government believes that locating them in the one department, under the control of one Minister, will yield significant advantage to the administration as a whole. 
The third reason for creating the new portfolio is to permit the Prime Minister and his Department to devote themselves to the matters which are central to Government. An examination of the history of the functions attached to the Prime Minister and his Department reveals a recurring theme of the detachment from the Prime Minister of new functions as they developed sufficient momentum to sustain a portfolio or department of their own, or as other opportunity for. appropriate attachment arises. Thus in earlier days the Department of External Affairs and, in more recent times, the Department of Education and Science have been separated from the Prime Minister's Department. It is natural that, as initiatives are made and. before they are fully proven, new ministerial and departmental arrangements should not be sought. But equally, once the significance of the new activities has been proved and accepted, it is appropriate that they be given separate ministerial and departmental status. Further than that, it is important that the Prime Minister, as leader of the Government, should be able to give a great deal of attention to the administration of the ' Cabinet system, Whatever other functions may come or go, the Prime Minister is  Chairman  of the Cabinet. It is his function to ensure that leadership is given; that there is effective co-ordination, through the Cabinet machinery and by individual consultation, of the activities of Ministers, each of .whom has full responsibility and accountability to Parliament; and that, through the Cabinet machinery and in other ways, the everchanging problems of Government are given full attention and co-ordinated and speedy resolution. 
These are the central functions of the Prime Minister as leader of the Government, and he must look to his Department to give him support in them. It is these considerations that lie behind the creation of the new Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. This Department will have administrative responsibility for the co-ordinating role of the Prime Minister and it will also be geared to give him advice on the demanding and ever-present preoccupations of the Government as a whole. These vary from day to day but range across such matters as the state of the economy, the Commonwealth's role in welfare, relations with the States - so important in a Federation - and external relations and defence. These are the administrative responsibilities of the Prime Minister as leader of the Government. When to these are added the role of leadership in the Parliament, the duties as leader of a party, the requirements imposed as chief spokesman for the Government both in the Parliament and in public, and the many representational obligations that must be accepted, it can readily be seen that functions which are in the main administrative, or can be handled by another Minister and Department, should where practicable be transferred to them. 
In short, the Government believes that the addition of a new ministerial portfolio to discharge the functions I have outlined represents a significant advance in the organisation of the functions of government. There will be renewed emphasis upon the importance the Government attaches to 3 different groups of responsibilities - in Aboriginal affairs; in the arts; and in the environment. In each of these, the Commonwealth is increasingly assuming a role in community affairs at the national level. There will also be a useful concentration under single control of a number of 'general service' activities having a functional or administrative affinity. By making these changes, the Prime Minister and his Department will be released to discharge more effectively their primary functions. And the lines of responsibility to the Parliament for the various functions will be clarified. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator O'Byrne)  adjourned. 
by leave - In association with the Ministers of State Bill, I wish also to inform the Senate of the intention of the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  to appoint Assistant Ministers to support certain senior Ministers in the discharge of their duties. Honourable senators will recall that, since the earliest days of Federation, Assistant Ministers, Honorary Ministers or Ministers without Portfolio have been a recurring feature of ministerial arrangements. These Assistant Ministers - I use that term to describe all the persons I have just referred to - are not Ministers of State in the strict constitutional sense: the Queen's Ministers of State are, under section 64 of the Constitution, only those members of the Executive Council who are appointed to administer Departments of State. The Assistant Ministers will be members of the Parliament who are appointed to assist a particular Minister in the discharge of his duties. Because they are not Ministers of State in the constitutional sense, section 44 of the Constitution precludes the payment of any salary to Assistant Ministers in respect of their duties. All it will be possible to do will be to make payments to them to meet outofpocket expenses, including travelling expenses, which they necessarily incur in the performance of their duties. 
It is intended that the Assistant Ministers will be sworn as Executive Councillors. They will thus form part of the Federal Executive Council whose function, under section 62 of the Constitution, is to advise the Governor-General in the government of the Commonwealth. The Assistant Ministers will thus participate in a most important aspect of the continuing good government of the Commonwealth. As members of the Federal Executive Council, the Assistant Ministers will in general be able to exercise statutory functions of the Ministers they are assisting - including the making of appointments and the performance of other functions expressly conferred on the Minister - provided he has authorised them to this effect. This is made possible by section 19 of the Acts Interpretation Act which, subject to any contrary intention in the particular legislation, permits any Minister or Member of the Federal Executive Council to act for and on behalf of a Minister referred to in the legislation. Thus Assistant Ministers will be able to make appointments and perform other functions expressly conferred on the Minister by legislation. 
The Assistant Ministers will be assigned to assist certain Ministers of Cabinet rank, who have the responsibility not only of administering their own departments but of taking part in the continuing process of consultation which is an essential feature of effective Cabinet government. By appointing Assistant Ministers in this way, we believe the system of Cabinet government will be strengthened through the opportunity it gives to senior Ministers to devote more time to Cabinet business. Assistant Ministers will, of course, work in accordance with the authority given to them by the senior Minister. Within this general authority, it is expected that they will conduct correspondence and make inquiries on his behalf. They will also be able to receive deputations on behalf of the Minister. I emphasise that assistant Ministers will not be able to take political responsibility in the administration of any department. This is as it should be. As Prime Minister Menzies explained in his ministerial statement on Parliamentary Under-Secretaries on 27th August 1952, it is important that Ministers should be directly andwerable to the Parliament for the administration of their departments. 
Again taking up what  Sir Robert  said in that statement, there are occasions when it would be of great assistance to a Minister if his Assistant Minister could, during the Committee stages of a Bill, sit at the table of the House and represent his Minister in the discussion of clauses and amendments as they arise. The Government will consult with the Presiding Officers on this matter to ascertain whether, to achieve this, an amendment of Standing Orders will be necessary. Numbers of those who in times past held office as Assistant Ministers were in due course elevated to full ministerial status. The experience they obtained as Assistant Ministers was of great value in preparing them to assume full ministerial status. We are confident that those who will be appointed to the new positions will obtain valuable and broadening experience. 
To sum up, the new Assistant Ministers will bring greatly needed assistance to senior Ministers in the discharge of their heavy duties, and will contribute to the better working of the Cabinet system. Second, they will help such Ministers to achieve more effective supervision of the activities of the departments to which they are related. Finally they will, as I have mentioned, provide those appointed with valuable experience in both the legislative and administrative fields. The Prime Minister has said that he does not intend at this stage to make specific appointments to the office of Assistant Minister. These will be left until the parliamentary recess, when there will be opportunity to give further consideration to details of the way in which the Assistant Ministers will work and to select members for the positions. I am making the statement at this stage partly to acquaint the Senate of events that will take place before it meets for the Budget session, and also because the decision to appoint Assistant Ministers needs to be seen in the full context of other changes being made in administrative arrangements, including particularly the proposal to appoint an additional Minister of State. 
 by leave - I move: 
That the Publications Committee, or any sub-committee thereof, when conferring with  a  similar committee or sub-committee of the House of Representatives, have power to move from place to place. 
Amendments made in 1970 to Senate standing order No. 36 and House of Representatives standing order No. 28 gave the Publications Committee broad powers of inquiry. However, the Committee does not have the power to move from place to place. The power is required initially to enable the Committee to inspect the new Australian Government Publishing Service Printing Office, the Department of Supply Central Drawing Office and the PostmasterGeneral's Department printing works in Melbourne during the winter adjournment. It is expected that the need will again arise from time to time for the Committee to move from place to place in the course of its inquiries. A similar motion, relating to the House of Representatives Publications Committee, was agreed to by that House last Monday. 
(3.40)  -  I was not present at the beginning of this discussion. As I understand the position, the Opposition is dissenting from a formal motion moved by the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  in relation to the suspension of so much of the Standing Orders. This is a contingency motion. Since the Standing Orders were written it has always been a contingency motion. In fact,  Senator Murphy  has in his name on the notice paper a contingency motion for the very purpose of having a contingency motion. I do not want to have engendered here the heat that has allegedly been engendered in another place. I want to get on with the job. I assure  Senator Murphy  that this is a contingency motion.  Senator Wright,  in his speech and by interjection, said that the Government has no intention of proceeding with the motion, in view of the points made. What the Government wants to do and what I am sure  Senator Murphy  and other honourable senators want to do is to get on with the job and to do our work. There is no significance in the motion moved by  Senator Wright.  There has never been any significance in such motions in the 18 years that I have been a senator. We will withdraw the motion. It is true that the motion is in the hands of the Chair.  Senator Wright  will seek leave to withdraw the motion and the Senate will get on with its business. If  Senator Murphy  is not happy about that arrangement or if he wants more reassurances,  Senator Wright  can use the forms of the Senate in another way so as to enable him to say the things that he wants to say. With great respect and with a great deal of patience, we should react to what I am saying. Let us proceed now to the next business. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT  (Senator  Laucke) - Order! There being no objection, leave is granted. 
Motion - by leave - withdrawn. 
Motion (by  Senator Wright)  agreed to: 
That the Bill be now read a first time. 
(8.2)  -  As  Senator Murphy  has said it is true that this is a recommendation. I do not agree with it but since he has not stated a case I will not state a case either. I suggest that we put the matter to a vote. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The honourable senator asks me a question that is linked to budgetary considerations. So I think it is proper to put it to the Treasurer rather than to the Minister for Social Services. I am aware of the circumstances of some homes for aged people, and I am aware of certain financial contributions that are made through Government agencies to assist such homes. This is a budgetary matter and quite obviously the Government, in the preparation of its budgetary proposals which will come forward in August, will be looking at all these matters as it normally does, and any decisions on policy that are made will be reflected in the Budget. 
Pursuant to section 14 of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act 1948-1970, I present the twenty-second annual report of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Board on the operation of the Act for the year ended 30th June 1970, together with financial accounts and the report of the Auditor-General on those accounts. 
For the information of honourable senators I present a report produced by the Atomic Weapons Tests Safety Committee entitled 'Fallout Over Australia From Nuclear Weapons Tested By France In Polynesia From May To August 1970'. 
(11.17)  -  I move: 
That the Bill bc  bow  lead  a  second time. 
The main purpose of the Bill is to amend the Loan (Farmers* Debt Adjustment) Act 1935-1950 to enable funds available to the States arising from that Act to be used for the same purpose as the funds to be provided by the Commonwealth under the Slates Grants (Rural Reconstruction) Bill. The Loan (Farmers' Debt Adjustment) Act 1935 authorised the making of grants to the States for the purpose of discharging in whole  or  in part, the debts of farmers by means of compositions or schemes of arrangement between farmers and their creditors. The States were empowered to use the funds to make either grants or loans to farmers. One condition laid down in the Act was that repayments to the States by farmers were to be used for the same purposes as the initial Commonwealth grants, so that such repayments constituted a revolving fund for the purposes specified in the Act. At 30th June 1970 the States had cash balances totalling $7. 6m, and loans outstanding to farmers totalling $4.6m, arising from the operation of the Act. 
During the recent discussions with the States on the rural reconstruction scheme, it was agreed that the States would use the balances available to them under the Act for the purposes of the new scheme, which are wider than those laid down in the Act. The Bill will enable the States to proceed accordingly. It provides that repayments to the States by farmers of loans made from these balances for the purposes of the new scheme may be used again for the same purposes. A further provision in the Bill is intended to fulfil the undertaking given to the Tasmanian Government, arising out of the 1968 drought in Tasmania, that the Commonwealth would take action to enable the State to use the funds available to it under the Act for the relief of farmers affected by that drought. Finally, as a consequence of recent bankruptcy legislation, the Bill provides for the repeal of section 9 and an amendment of section 10 of the Act. 
I should also like to take this opportunity of announcing that, as a further means of facilitating desirable structural adjustment in rural industries, the Board of the Commonwealth Banking Corporation has agreed to widen the lending activities of the Commonwealth Development Bank. At the present time, the Bank does not normally approve loan applications for property purchases not involving substantial developmental features. It has now been decided that the Bank will consider loan applications for the purpose of assisting farmers to acquire additional land to build up the size and operational efficiency of their farms. Those eligible for assistance will be working farmers whose properties may be too small to constitute an enterprise viable in the long run, or farmers who by acquiring additional land will assist the adjustment process through enabling uneconomic farms to be purchased. Loan applications will normally be considered only from persons whose main source of income will be the farming enterprise concerned. 
The terms and conditions attaching to such loans will be the same as those currently applied by the Development Bank. In particular: 
The repayment term will be determined in the light of the circumstances of each case, but may be up to 20 years; 
The interest rate will be 6i per cent; and 
Finance would not otherwise have been available to the borrower on reasonable and suitable terms and conditions. 
To increase the capacity of the Development Bank to operate in this new field of lending, the Government has decided to provide in the 1971-72 Budget an amount of $10m by way of an advance to the Development Bank. The advance will carry a concessional interest rate of 4 per cent in order to allow the Development Bank a margin to cover the costs of making and administering such loans. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Wilkinson)  adjourned. 
by leave - I would be the first to acknowledge that general business was set down for tonight. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONIf honourable senators would be quiet they would hear me. Equally I acknowledge without reservation that  Senator Murphy  has so arranged matters as to bring Government business on tonight. I do not challenge that situation at all. I am not suggesting that there was any attempt at delaying tactics tonight either. Let that be understood. I am doing what we have done so many times before when we have a Bill with perhaps only one clause left and perhaps 2 or 3 divisions. In the interests of what we are here for I suggest we should push on and complete this Bill before we lift tonight. We start at 10 o'clock tomorrow morning. I have no desire to sit late any more than anybody else has. I think it is a reasonable proposition in accordance with the procedures which we have adopted in the past that we complete this Bill tonight. 
Pursuant to section 1 1 of the Life Insurance Act 1945-1965, I present the 25th annual report of the Insurance Commissioner for the year ended 3 1 st December 1970. 
(11.15) - I move: 
That order of the day No. 24 take precedence over order of the day No. 1, and that orders of the day Nos. 6 and 7 be postponed until the next day of sitting. 
The reason I have moved that order of the day No. 24 take precedence over order of the day No. 1 is merely for the purpose of getting a second reading speech on to the slate. The Opposition will then take the adjournment of the debate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
(11.49) - i move: 
That the Bill be now read  a  second time. 
This Bill should be read in conjunction with the Income Tax Assessment Bill (No. 2) 1971. Speaking broadly, its purpose is to impose a special tax of 10 per cent in cases where a borrowing initially meets the tests for exemption under the earlier Bill for borrowings to support Australian ownership or participation, but which subsequently fails to satisfy those tests. The effect is to impose a tax in substitution for the withholding tax that, but for the exemptions proposed in the main Bill, would have been payable. 
Since the special tax will be paid somewhat later than the withholding tax which it replaces, the Bill also provides for the imposition of further tax, by way of additional tax for late payment, at the rate of 10 per cent per annum based on the amount of special tax. This additional tax is to be calculated from the date on which the witholding tax would have been payable to the date on which the special tax is notified and, as is usual with late payment penalties statutorily imposed, . may be remitted wholly or in part if the circumstances so warrant. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator O'Byrne)  adjourned. 
(11.16)  - I  move: 
That, unless otherwise ordered, the days and times of the Senate meeting next week be as follows: 
Tuesday, 11 a.m. till 1 p.m., 2.15 p.m. till 6 p.m., 8 p.m. till11 p.m. 
Wednesday, 10 a.m. till 1 p.m., 2.15 p.m. till 6 p.m., 8 p.m. till 11 p.m. 
Thursday, 10 a.m. till11 p.m., 2.15 p.m. till 6 p.m., 8 p.m. till 11 p.m.; and 
Friday, 10 a.m. till 1 p.m., 2.15 p.m. till 4 p.m. 
The times are identical with those for this week with the exception of Wednesday when we will meet at 10 a.m. instead of 2.15 p.m. as we did last week because we had party meetings on Wednesday morning. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Motion (by  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson) agreed to: 
That unless otherwise ordered the sessional order relating to the adjournment of the Senate have effect at the termination time each day. 
(11.28)- I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend the provisions of the income tax law relating to interest withholding tax so as to give effect to decisions announced by the former Prime Minister on 13 th December last. Two other taxation Bills to be introduced immediately - the Income Tax (Bearer Debentures) Bill 1971 and the Income Tax (Withholding Tax Recoupment) Bill 1971  -  are complementary. The interest withholding tax is a tax, levied at the rate of 10 per cent, on interest received by overseas lenders from Australian borrowers. The borrower is obliged to withhold 10 per cent of the interest and pay it to the Commissioner of Taxation. It is a form of tax commonly used by many countries to tax certain classes of income having a source within their territory. 
When the interest withholding tax in its current form was introduced as from the beginning of 1968, it was expected that in most cases, particularly where there were arrangements between Australia and the other country concerned for relief of double taxation, the overseas lender would be able to obtain a taxation credit in his own country for interest withholding tax deducted in Australia. If so, it was to be expected that the burden of the Australian interest withholding tax would not generally fall on the Australian borrower - in other words, that the rate of interest payable by the Australian borrower would not include the cost of interest withholding tax. However, a review of the effect of the interest withholding tax on Australian borrowers has caused the Government to believe that the tax frequently falls not on the overseas lender but on the Australian borrower. This is because the lender adds to the rate of interest he charges a compensation for the interest tax withheld. 
The Government has made clear the importance it attaches to flows of capital from abroad for the development of our resources and of the economy generally. It has also made clear that it wishes to see as much Australian equity and managerial participation as possible in developmental and industrial enterprises in this country. Insofar as the burden of the interest withholding tax on overseas borrowings is passed on, in whole or m part, to the borrower in Australia, it is thought that its effect could be detrimental to the achievement of these objectives. As a result of the review to which I have referred, it is proposed under this Bil] to exempt interest on 2 broad categories of overseas borrowings from interest withholding tax. The first broad category is bearer securities issued overseas to the public or on an otherwise widely-spread basis. The second broad category relates to what might be termed overseas borrowings to support whole or partial Australian ownership of ventures in this country. 
Where borrowings are made overseas by means of widely-spread bearer securities, the Government is satisfied that the cost of interest withholding tax must be met by the Australian borrower irrespective of whether or not the borrowing company is predominantly overseas owned or Australian owned. This is so because, for technical reasons, it is not practicable for overseas tax credits to apply at all under the institutional arrangements that have in practice to be adopted for payment of the interest. These arrangements provide for interest on the securities to be paid over the counter by banks in overseas financial centres when the holder of the security presents his interest  coupon, and the bank  is reimbursed by the borrower or his agent. It has been found impossible for our withholding tax to be collected from the real lenders in these circumstances. I mention in this connection that, as a general measure against tax evasion, the present law - by section 126 of the Assessment Act - imposes a special rate of tax of approximately 42 per cent on interest paid on bearer securities where the borrower does not supply to the Commissioner of Taxation the names and addresses of holders to whom the interest is paid. 
The provisions of section 126 apply to overseas issues of bearer securities. Despite these provisions, however, borrowers resident in Australia who wish, and are able, to have access to overseas capital markets through the issue of bearer securities can still make such borrowings by setting up an overseas borrowing subsidiary in a country which does not impose tax on interest on bearer securities. Australian interest withholding tax at the rate of 10 per cent is then paid on interest on the borrowing by the Australian company from its overseas subsidiary. That is a technical solution which enables the Australian borrower to meet both our requirements and those of the overseas capital market. But there can be no crediting of our withholding tax against tax levied by the real lender's country of residence, and so the tax would usually operate to increase the effective rate of interest payable by the Australian borrower. It is accordingly proposed that interest on bearer debentures that satisfy tests set out in the Bill will be exempt from withholding tax and section 126 tax. Broadly speaking, the exemption will be available for interest paid by Australian-resident companies on overseas borrowings made by them through widely-spread bearer debentures for use in, or in connection with, a business carried on in Australia by a resident of Australia,. It will be immaterial for this purpose whether or not the borrower or user is Australian owned. The intention is to eliminate scope for companies which are resident overseas to channel their overseas borrowings via Australian based companies in such a way as to use Australia, as a tax haven. 
A requirement for exemption is that the debentures be issued outside Australia for the purposes of raising a loan outside Australia in a foreign currency, the interest on which is paid outside Australia in a foreign currency. One objective in denning overseas borrowing in this way is to minimise the risk of evasion of tax by residents of Australia. Precautions of this kind have to be stronger with bearer securities than with registered securities. It will also be a prerequisite for exemption that the Commissioner give a certificate that, having regard to the circumstances surrounding the issue - and statutory guidelines for the Commissioner are provided in the Bill for this purpose - it is reasonable to regard the debentures as having been issued with a view to public subscription or purchase, or other wide distribution among investors. The purpose of this, of course, is to prevent borrowings from simply being dressed-up' as exempt bearer debenture issues so as to take advantage of the exemption. Earlier I referred to the issue of bearer securities or debentures via an overseas subsidiary of the Australian borrower. It has been represented to us that some Australian borrowers will find it expedient to continue to borrow in this way because of the preferences of overseas lenders. We see no reason to prevent them from doing so, and accordingly the exemption in respect of bearer debentures will apply, not only where denbentures are issued directly by the Australian borrower, but also where debentures are issued through an overseas subsidiary which is wholly owned and controlled by an Australianresident parent and its only business is to borrow for on-lending at cost to the parent company for use in, or in connection with, an Australian business. 
Unless there is exemption under the plan for borrowings to support Australian ownership, which I describe shortly, bearer debenture interest that does not qualify for the exemption will, as previously, be subject to section 126 tax if the identity of the holders is not disclosed. However, the rate of tax under section 126 will be reduced to 10 per cent for non-exempt interest on completely foreign issues by residents of Australia, that is, issues in a foreign currency on which interest is payable in a foreign currency by a resident of Australia, in other cases, the rate of tax will be the same as that now imposed. A separate Bill, the Income Tax (Bearer Debentures) Bill 1971, will declare the rates of tax under section 126. 
I come now to the second, and in many respects the more important, broad category of overseas borrowings on which under the Bill interest will be exempt from interest withholding tax - namely, borrowings to support whole or partial Australian ownership of ventures in this country. Except in the case of widely-spread bearer securities, there is no absolute barrier to prevent the overseas lender from obtaining in his country the benefit of .tax credits in respect of interest withholding tax deducted in Australia. However, we have been advised that difficulties frequently arise and that the cost of our interest withholding tax may have to be met by the Australian borrower in the form of an increase in the rate of interest on the loan. Sometimes all that is involved is that the borrower is asked to put the lender in funds temporarily until the latter's .tax credit is received, in which event there is no permanent cost to the borrower. We have been advised that in other cases there could be a permanent cost to him because the lender cannot obtain a full credit, or perhaps for other reasons. Where this is so, the Government believes that these problems and costs must affect Australian-owned companies to an extent that need not, and generally does not, apply to overseas companies which can have access to loan funds from abroad through overseas parent or associated companies. Accordingly, the Bill provides for exemption from interest withholding tax, in defined circumstances, of interest on overseas borrowings by Australian-owned borrowers. The purpose is to ensure that the law does not operate to discriminate against Australianowned enterprises, relative to overseas-owned enterprises, in the matter of the effective cost of interest on overseas borrowings. 
For this exemption to be available, tests as to the extent of Australian ownership and control must be satisfied both by the borrower and the enterprise in which the borrowed moneys are used. In the terms used in the Bill, the exemption will be available only if the borrower is an Australian entity' and the borrowed funds are used in an enterprise owned by an Australian entity' or an enterprise in which there is 'substantial Australian participation'. The Bill specifies that individuals ordinarily resident in Australia - the Commonwealth, a State and authorities of the Commonwealth or a State - are Australian entities for the purpose. In the case of companies, in broad terms a company will be treated as an Australian entity if, in addition to its being a resident of Australia, at least  60  per cent of the ownership and control is vested in Australian entities, including shareholder companies that are themselves Australian entities, and no one person who is not an Australian entity has rights to more than  20  per cent of the ownership or control. Other types of business organisation, such as partnerships and joint ventures, may qualify as Australian entities on satisfying tests as to Australian ownership and control adapted from those applicable to companies. 
An enterprise will be deemed to be one in which there is substantial Australian participation if the extent and concentration of participation by Australian entities are such as to represent an effective Australian influence in the carrying on of the enterprise. An enterprise owned by a company will be an enterprise with substantial Australian participation if rights to at least  20  per cent of the ownership and control of the company are held by one Australian entity. Alternatively an enterprise may qualify if at least  30  per cent of the ownership and control of the company is held by not more than  5  Australian entities, or at least  40  per cent is held by any number of Australian entities. Enterprises owned by bodies other than companies may qualify on satisfying tests as to the extent of Australian ownership and control adapted from those applying for companies. Interest on loans raised abroad by such enterpriseswill be exempted from tax if, on an application to him by the borrower, the Commissioner of Taxation certifies that he is satisfied that the borrower is an Australian, entity and the loan moneys are for use in an enterprise owned by an Australian entity or an enterprise in which there is substantial Australian participation. If, in the latter case, the money is provided as a loan to the enterprise, the loan must not be excessive in amount when related to the extent of the Australian participation in theenterprise. 
Other ancillary tests, dealing with matters such as rights over the appointment of directors, redeemable shares and options unacquire shares and artificial arrangements designed to obtain exemption that otherwise would not have been available, are also proposed as safeguards against devices to circumvent the main tests I have described. Where circumstances so change during the- currency of a loan that the tests for exemption are not met, the interest will remain exempt from withholding tax but the borrower will be liable to pay a special tax - in effect, a substituted withholding tax - on the interest attributable to the period during which the tests are not met. This tax will be imposed at the rate of 10 per cent by the Income Tax (Withholding Tax Recoupment) Bill 1971. That Bill also provides for the imposition of additional tax, at the rate of 10 per cent per annum on the amount of the special tax, equivalent to the additional tax for late payment of withholding tax that would have been payable if the interest had not been exempted from that tax. 
I turn now to administrative procedures governing the operation of the exemption in its application to both of the broad categories of overseas borrowings I have described. If a particular borrowing meets the precise tests set out in the Bill and the Commissioner of Taxation is satisfied that the case falls within the terms and spirit of other provisions of the Bill including the extensive guidelines contained in it, he will give to the borrower a certificate that he is so satisfied. On the giving of this certificate interest on that borrowing will, while it continues to satisfy the precise tests, be exempt from withholding tax and, in the case of interest on bearer debentures, from tax under section 126 of the Income Tax Assessment Act. Interest exempted from withholding tax will also be exempted from ordinary income tax levied by assessment. A certificate of exemption will be given by the Commissioner upon the borrower demonstrating how the money borrowed will, in the end, be used. Such certificates will be given only after the overseas loan has been raised and all the relevant facts have been made known to the Commissioner. However, the Commissioner will follow his usual administrative practice in cases of this kind of indicating beforehand to prospective borrowers who place all the facts before him whether, on those facts, he can be expected to give a certificate once the loan is raised. 
Should the Commissioner conclude that a certificate of exemption should not be given he will be obliged to notify the borrower accordingly. The law will treat this notice as if it were a notice of an income tax assessment, with the consequence that the borrower will have usual rights of objection and appeal against the Commissioner's refusal to give a certificate. A taxation Board of Review will accordingly have the power to grant a certificate of exemption should it conclude that the particular loan falls within the policy evinced by the legislation. The new exemptions from interest withholding tax provided for in the Bill will be effective in relation to loans the contracts for which are entered into on or after the date of Royal Assent. It will be immaterial that negotiations for a loan concluded on or after that date were begun before then, or that the loan is in substitution for an earlier loan. In the statement made by the former Prime Minister on 13th December it was foreshadowed that the amendments would be effective as from 1st July 1971. It has been found, however, that no purpose would be served by deferring operation of the new provisions beyond the date of Royal Assent. 
Before concluding I should explain the significance of clause 9 of the Bill, which has a different purpose from those I have described. On the face of things it may appear that the clause will operate to withdraw an exemption from withholding tax that is provided by the existing law in respect of interest credited by overseas branches of Australian banks to accounts kept with the branches by foreign customers. However, this is not the case. 
I should explain that this category of interest - broadly interest on saving banks or fixed deposit accounts kept by nonresidents with overseas branches of Australian banks in the ordinary course of their business - has been and will continue to be exempt from withholding tax under a general provision in section 128B (2). The latter provision frees from the tax interest paid to a non-resident where it is incurred by a resident in carrying on business through an overseas branch. The specific exempting provision that is to be omitted by clause 9 is, in fact, redundant. While its inclusion in the ong.nal interest withholding tax legislation was considered desirable to make it doubly clear that the interest concerned would not bear withholding tax, its withdrawal is now considered necessary since a view has been expressed that it could operate to provide a general exemption for ordinary borrowings by Australian banks on behalf of companies in Australia. Such borrowings which meet the test for the exemptions proposed in the Bill will, of course, be free of withholding tax but it is not, and never has been, intended that all such borrowings should automatically qualify for exemption under the provision now proposed to be omitted. The amendment to be made by clause 9 will be effective as from 29th April 1971. 
Explanations of the technical provisions of the three Bills are contained in a comprehensive explanatory memorandum being made available to honourable senators The Government believes that the legislation will assist generally in the attraction of overseas investment to Australia, and on a basis under which Australia entities will not be at a disavantage relative to overseas owned enterprises in regard to the effective cost of overseas loan capital. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator O'Byrne)  adjourned. 
(11.54)- I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purposes of this Bill are to amend the States Grants Act 1970 to provide for the payment of additional grants to the States as compensation for loss of receipts duty revenue and as special revenue assistance to help finance 1970-71 Budget deficits; and to make certain amendments needed because of the non-payment of pay-roll tax by Victoria and the legal challenge by that State and South Australia to the validity of pay-roll tax in its application to State governments. Under the new revenue grants arrangements settled at the Premiers' conference last June provision was made for a substantial increase in the level of Commonwealth assistance to the States on the basis that the distribution of tax resources would remain unchanged and that the States and their authorities would continue to pay pay-roll tax. In 1970-71 the revenue assistance payable under these new arrangements is currently estimated to be nearly $190m or almost 16 per cent greater than in 1969-70, which is, by any standards, a very large increase. 
However, notwithstanding this very large increase in assistance, the States have run into financial difficulties since last June. First,, for reasons of. which honourable senators will be aware, the Commonwealth was forced to limit the application of its legislation imposing a duty on business receipts on behalf of the States to receipts before 1st October 1970. As a result, the States were faced with the loss of a major source of revenue. Secondly, following the presentation of their 1970-71 Budgets the States were faced with a quite abnormal increase in costs. largely as .a result of very large increases in wage awards granted to their employees by various wage fixing bodies, lt. has been estimated that such increases will have the effect of increasing wages per State employee, on average, by no less than 15 per cent in 1970-71. 
No arrangements intended to apply over a 5-year period could be expected to cope with sudden abnormal developments of this nature and magnitude.' Indeed, it has always been recognised that, within any 5-yearly period of their operation, the financial assistance grants ' arrangements are not designed to meet either significant changes in the States powers and responsibilities or severe financial difficulties that arise due to abnormal factors beyond the States control. ' The Commonwealth therefore agreed, at the Premiers Conference last October, to compensate the States for the loss of receipts duty revenues and, more recently, to provide additional revenue assistance of $43m to help the States finance their prospective Budget deficits in 1970-71. 
I emphasise that this additional revenue assistance on which we agreed last month is being provided on the understanding that it would be used to reduce the States revenue deficits and not to increase expenditure on goods and services in 1970-71 following the measures taken by the States after the February Premiers Conference. This was unanimously accepted by the States at the April Premiers Conference. I might add that these measures of restraint by the States not only helped to alleviate their own budgetary problems, but also to reduce inflationary pressures upon the economy. However even after allowance for the fact that these measures were estimated to reduce the States 1970-71 deficits by $60m to S70m, it was apparent from the information put before the Commonwealth at the Premiers Conference on 5th April that the States would still be left with substantial deficits in 1970-71. The Commonwealth therefore agreed to provide special revenue assistance of $43m in 1970-71 on the basis I have mentioned. As a result the total cost of the Commonwealth revenue assistance to be provided under the new grants arrangements and of the additional revenue assistance is estimated ito be $230m, or over 19 per cent higher in 1970-71 than the comparable figure for 1969-70. 
The additional revenue assistance is to be distributed between the States in proportion to the formula grafts. As final estimates of these grants are not yet available, the following estimates of amounts payable to each State are subject to revision: 
As regards the amount of receipts duty compensation to be paid to each State, it was agreed at the Premiers Conference held on 8th October last that in 1970-71 each State .would be paid a grant equal to the estimated amount of duty which would have been collected in" 1970-71 in respect of receipts in the last 9 months of the year, other than wage and salary receipts, if the receipts duty legislation of the Commonwealth and the States had continued to operate after 20th September 1970. In addition, the Commonwealth agreed to representations by Queensland that it should receive an additional grant to compensate it for the fact that the rate of duty in that State applying in the first quarter of the year was only 0.02 per cent, compared to 0.1 per cent in all other States and under the Commonwealth's legislation. Queensland argued that it had framed amendments to its own legislation such that, had the original proposals agreed between the Commonwealth and the State governments been agreed to by the Commonwealth Par liament, its rate would also have been 0.1 per cent as from the beginning of 1970-71. 
It was also agreed at the October Conference that the compensation for 1970-71 and subsequent years would be calculated by estimating the amount of duty each State would have received from receipts duty at 0.1 per cent in 1970-71 had it been a 'normal' year and adding the amounts so estimated to the 'base' to which the . financial assistance grants formula, as laid down in section 5 of the States Grants Act 1970, is applied. In settling upon this procedure, it was recognised that the grants calculated under it would ' not necessarily equal exactly the amounts of receipts duty which would have been collected.- It was seen, however, by both the Commonwealth and the States as an equitable approach to the problem and accepted on that basis. 
The estimates of duty which would have been collected in the whole of 1970-71 had it been a 'normal' year, and in the last three-quarters of the year, had Commonwealth and State legislation continued in operation, have been discussed between Commonwealth and State treasury officials and the amounts, which are set out in clauses 3 and 4 of the Bill, respectively, have been endorsed by the Government. 
With the concurrence of honourable senators, I incorporate in Hansard a table showing -the compensation payable in 1970-71 and preliminary estimates of the additions to the financial assistance grants in 1971-2 which will arise from the provisions of the legislation. 
Approximate estimates made by making arbitrary assumptions concerning the increase in average wages in the year ending March 1972 and in each State's population in the year ending December 1971. 
At the October Premiers' Conference, the Commonwealth made it clear that, as with the grants payable under the new financial assistance grants arrangements, the payment of receipts duty compensation would be dependent on the States and their semi-government and local authorities continuing to pay pay-roll tax. This is interesting in view of the comments made at question time. This followed the statement by the former Prime Minister in the House on 30th September last that the Commonwealth could not accept the position taken by the Victorian Government that it did not intend to seek an appropriaton from the Victorian Parliament for the purpose of paying payroll tax to the Commonwealth in 1970-71. 
The main reason why the Commonwealth continues to make the payment of the financial assistance grants conditional on the payment of payroll tax by the States and their authorities is, of course, because non-payment of the tax would, in effect, increase the net flow of funds from the Commonwealth to the States beyond that intended by the Commonwealth Government and by the Parliament when agreeing to authorise the payment of the grants. The amount of revenue currently involved is considerable. In 1970-71 State governments are estimated to be liable to pay payroll tax of about $40m and their semi-government and local authorities approximately $30m. There are, of course, other reasons making it desirable to preserve the very comprehensive basis on which the tax is presently levied. Essentially, however, the Commonwealth's position on this matter is quite simple. We could only accept a situation in which the States or their authorities, or some of them, ceased to pay payroll tax if there were to be an equivalent reduction in the grants payable to the State or States concerned. As there is no provision in the States Grants Act 1970 to permit deductions to be made from the grants where a State, or its authorities, do not pay payroll tax, it is necessary to include such a provision in order to meet the possibility that the High Court will uphold the challenge by Victoria and South Australia to the constitutional validity of payroll tax in its application to State governments. Further, as Victoria has not paid any payroll tax this year, and as the Victorian Parliament has now risen, it is also necessary to have authority to make  a  deduction from the grant payable to that State in 1970-71 in order to protect Commonwealth revenue in the event that Victoria decides not to meet, or in the absence of parliamentary authority is unable to meet, its liability for 1970-71. However, on this latter 1 point, I would draw honourable senators' attention to sub-sections (5) and (6)' of the proposed new section 9a, the effect of which is to authorise the refund of an amount previously deducted from a State's grant where that State subsequently pays the amount of pay-roll tax owing. 
Honourable senators, will . also note that the Bill leaves discretion to the Treasurer to determine the amount of any deduction from the grant payable to a State. I assure the Senate that it would not be the intention to deduct an amount greater than the amount of pay-roll tax not paid. However, it will not necessarily be possible to estimate precisely the amounts of pay-roll tax a State Government, or a State authority would have paid in  some period had it continued to pay the tax. In this regard I mention that, in the event of a High Court decision unfavourable to the Commonwealth, and the States, or some of them, deciding not to continue to pay pay-roll tax, the legislation would permit the Government to offset the loss of pay-roll tax revenue to the Commonwealth in future years by making a deduction to the base grants to which the financial assistance grants formula is applied. It may be of interest to honourable senators to know that provisions of this type in State grants legislation are by no means unprecedented. The States Grants Act 1946-48 - under which tax reimbursement grants', were paid from 1946-47 to 1958-59 inclusive - provided in effect that, if a State imposed an income tax, it could thereby lose its grant. Similarly, the present Commonwealth Aid Roads Act authorises the Treasurer to make a deduction from an amount payable to a State where that State has failed to comply wilh the conditions of the roads grants. 
The non-payment of pay-roll tax by Victoria has also given rise to the need to amend the States Grants Act 1970 in order to ensure that Victoria's action does not reduce the size of the increase in average wages calculated for the year ended March 1971, this being one of the elements in the formula used to determine the 1970-71 grants payable to all States. The failure of Victoria to submit pay-roll tax returns in respect of the period June 1970 to March 1971 means that, under the legislation as it now stands, the increase in average wages for the year ended March 1971 would have to be calculated by the Acting Commonwealth Statistician without reference to the number, of Victorian Government employees and their wages during the period, in which returns have, not been lodged. Without going into details, it is estimated that the effect of this would be to reduce the increase in average wages for the year ending March 1971 by about 0.3 per cent, which in turn would reduce the financial assistance grants payable this financial year to all States by about $3m. 
It would obviously be inequitable to allow the States' grants to be lower than they should be merely because Victoria has not lodged pay-roll tax returns for part of the relevant period. Clause 6 of the Bill therefore amends section 10 of the Act so as to allow the statistician more discretion in calculating the increase in average wages. This will enable him, in this and other circumstances which may arise, to make such adjustments to figures obtained from pay-roll tax. returns as he considers necessary to put the calculations on a consistent and accurate basis. 
To sum up, the Government believes that, in providing receipts duty compensation of $59.7m in this year and of roughly $100m in 1971-72, escalating in future years, as well as additional revenue assistance of $43m this year, we are reaching a fair result with the States. It follows that we could not afford, in addition, to suffer a further net loss of revenue as a result of the non-payment of pay-roll tax by a State or States or their authorities, and we have accordingly to protect ourselves against that situation. 
To put the matter in perspective, with the concurrence of the Senate, I incorporate in Hansard a table showing the extent to which, after taking account of the proposals contained in this Bill, we shall be assisting the States in the current financial year. 

<graphic href="048232197105072_36_13.jpg"></graphic>

I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator O'Byrne)  adjourned. 
by leave - I would like to make a brief statement. When the Senate concludes its business, which we expect and hope will be next week, we will all be wanting to pay our respects to and to put on the record our appreciation of the retiring senators - the  President,  the  Chairman  of Committees and other honourable senators. I think it would be very unfortunate if we did this in the dying hours when we were just about to conclude our business. There will be certain honourable senators who will be wanting to travel interstate and who will be anxious to get away to catch aircraft. So I am proposing that on the day on which we reasonably anticipate that we will be concluding our business I shall ask for leave to interpose this matter after prayers so that any honourable senator who wants to make a contribution will be able to do so in a less hurried atmosphere and with a dignity worthy of the occasion. I simply want to indicate to the Senate that that is what I propose to do. 
(9.47) - The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  has expressed a point of view, which he is entitled to do. I shall not reflect upon it. In relation to the point made by  Senator Kennelly,  I am assured by my advisers that that sub-section means exactly what it says, that it is related to the purchase of which is financed'. Once the purchase and the financial aspect are completed, the complete possession of the aircraft goes into the hands of Qantas Airways Ltd, and Qantas then has the complete right to do what it likes with the aircraft. It is only in relation to the purchase and the financing of the purchase that these conditions are applicable. All I can say is that this is the advice I have received from my advisers, and that is where that aspect of the matter rests with me. 
I have been reminded by the Leader of the Opposition that on a previous occasion we spoke in terms of writing conditions into the loan agreement between the Government and the Export-Import Bank. The difficulty I see in relation to sub-section (d) of section 8 relates to the Foreign Assistance Act of the United States. That Act provides that foreign assistance and foreign aid can be given only in certain limited areas, and therefore this part of the section has the qualifying limitation.  Senator Murphy  has expressed the view on behalf of the Opposition that we should be able to borrow without these qualifications being put into the terms of the agreement. All I can say in relation to this loan is that these are the conditions upon which the loan was made. I have no doubt that the point  Senator Murphy  made, as an expression of view propounded by the Opposition, will be taken into consideration by the Treasury in relation to any future loans. 
(9.31) - This Bill, of course, is a Treasury Bill. The Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  has responded to matters which are strictly speaking not within the compass of the provisions of the Bill but as is common in the Senate the second reading debate has been very wide and the Minister felt obliged to respond to some of the points that were raised. The Bill provides for the borrowing of S26.4m on the one hand and $26. 8m on the other. The $26. 8m is to be borrowed from a syndicate of United States commercial banks, with which the Chase Manhattan Bank of New York is associated, and the $2 6.4m is to be borrowed from the Export-Import Bank of the United States under loan agreements. I acknowledge that the Opposition has indicated its support for the Bill. I had hoped for a reasonably speedy passage for it but in the nature of things the Senate wished to debate it in this way and I cannot complain about that. 

 Senator Murphy raised one point of significance which should be answered. The point is directly germane to the Bill and is distinct from the other matters to which the Minister for Civil Aviation has responded.  Senator Murphy  referred to section 8 (d) of the First Schedule which places a restriction on the use of aircraft. Of course, this section is applicable only to the loan to be obtained from the ExportImport Bank and not to the commercial loan. That is the first point I want to make. The second point is that this restriction is applicable only during the period of repayment of the loan. Once the loan has been paid off the restriction disappears. The section specifies that none of the aircraft - 
is principally for use in a Communist country (as defined in Section 620(f) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended) or (ii) is to be used principally in any nation (a) which engages in armed conflict. . . . 
The word 'principally' appears in both instances. Quite obviously the aircraft will not be used principally for either of those purposes. They will not be used principally in the war area during the period of repayment. 
Communist country. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONAs defined in section 620(f) of the Foreign Assistance Act. The point is that this restriction is a term of condition of the loan and the relevant section uses the word 'principally'. The aircraft must not be used principally in the areas referred to. As Qantas is an international airline it will fly all over the word and not principally in a Communist country or in a war zone. A person lending money on an asset would not want that asset, whether it be a vehicle or an aircraft, involved in a war zone during the period of the loan. That is the explanation of the provision as given to me. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONAs I understand it, it is  a  condition of the loan. Ii has nothing to do with the purchase at all and has nothing to do with the Boeing company, as suggested by  Senator Kennelly.  Rather it is  a  condition on which the money is lent by the Export-Import Bank. 
One of the odd circumstances is that those providing the other part of the loan, the commercial banking institutions, have not sought this restriction at all. It is a rather odd situation. I thank the Senate for the passage of the Bill. The next time I deal with a Treasury Bill relating to Qantas I will put it in the hands of the Minister for Civil Aviation. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In  Committee 
The Bill. 
(9.59)-l thank the Senate for the speedy passage of this Bill.  Senator Byrne  asked for advice on the areas in which increased expenditure has necessitated the introduction of this machinery Bill.  Senator Willesee  very properly pointed out that this procedure is followed more or less every year. I wish to refer to part of the second reading speech made by  Senator Cotton  in presenting this Bill on behalf of the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden).  I think it covers the point in which  Senator Byrne  is interested.  Senator Cotton  said: 
Some of the more important increases in expenditures which have occurred since the Budget were outlined in a statement which I made to the Senate on 16th February dealing with Government expenditure. It is, however, useful to refer to some of them here. The largest variations affecting the expenditure estimates have been additional payments to the States, including $60m to compensate the States for loss of receipts duty revenues, $43m in additional assistance to the States to help with their budgetary difficulties, and about $25m in increased financial assistance grants arising from the effect on the formula determined grants of the higher than anticipated increase in the average wages. In all, payments to or for the States are now expected to exceed the Budget estimates by the order of $1 32m. 
That, in itself, is quite a significant amount. There is reference to other matters in the second reading speech.  Senator Byrne  also asked whether or not the procedures should be looked at, and he suggested that the instrument which should be used to look at the procedures should be the Public Accounts Committee. I see nothing wrong with that proposal. I think that the contribution which the honourable senator has made in this regard will be picked up somewhere and no doubt this aspect will be examined. However, I feel bound to say, as  Senator Willesee  said, that these things happen in a nation the size of Australia, because of budgetary considerations and the fact that we are in a federation in which so many variations occur in a financial year. Quite obviously this is one of the machinery procedures which become necessary. So far these machinery procedures have been used, more or less, every financial year. 

I have been given some figures which indicate that even additional grants to the States amount to $133m. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
(10.17) - I thank the Senate for its co-operation in affording this Bill a speedy passage. In indicating the views of the Opposition  Senator Keeffe  offered criticisms of the Bill at 2 levels.  His  first criticism related to the interest rate which is to apply to the loan. In the course of his remarks I interrupted him and perhaps I was a bit rude in doing so, but I was surprised at his statement about an interest rate of 4 per cent to 6 per cent. Honourable senators will be aware that the current lending rate for money advanced by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development is 7.25 per cent per annum. Honourable senators will be aware also that the long term bond rate offered by this Government is 7 per cent per annum. The loan for which a guarantee is sought in this Bill is to be for 25 years. 

The honourable senator has had his opportunity to speak; perhaps I can have mine. Semi-government authorities raise public loans in Australia at 7.25 per cent per annum for periods of 15 years and beyond. So the rate which is offered by the International Bank is the same as that offered for public loans to semi-government authorities in Australia. I do not think the honourable senator can criticise the Bill on the basis of the interest rate to be charged. 
The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development has offered this loan to the Administration of the Territory of Papua New Guinea. The Administration has said that it wants the loan for a good and sufficient purpose, and the Commonwealth has facilitated the loan. I think it is not arguable in the world in which we live that anyone wishing to borrow money from the International Bank must pay the ruling rate of interest. This loan is for a good purpose.  Senator Keeffe  admits it is an excellent purpose. It is a loan for a very long term and, if I recall it accurately, it is for 25 years at 7.25 per cent per annum with a 5-year rest before repayments start. The Administrator's Executive Council has approved the general conditions of the loan and the House of Assembly in the Territory is aware of these conditions and has passed legislation approving 2 similar loans. I suggest that that is an answer to  Senator Keeffe's  criticism of the Bill and of various items in the Schedule. 
I feel that I could react to some of the points made by the honourable senator. I feel bound to point out to him, not in any discourteous way, that in the Senate on 4th November 1970 in a debate on a similar Bill, the purpose of which was to assist the financing of a highways project in the highlands of New Guinea,  Senator Keeffe  made the following comment, which appears at page 21 12 of Hansard: 
If long term reasonable interest loans can be obtained then this is the type of finance which the Government should be looking to for the more rapid development of the Territory. 

The honourable senator did not say anything about the interest rate. I think  Senator Keeffe  agrees that a long term loan is desirable. The only point of difference between us is that he believes that the interest rate is too high and my response is that if a loan is needed, that is the interest rate that must be paid. It is the ruling interest rate at present in the international sense and also in the Australian sense. I thank the Senate for facilitating the passage of this Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
by leave - I move: 
That the Privileges Committee have power to sit during the sitting of the Senate this day. 
I understand that the Committee is in conclave now and has been since 7 o'clock. It has a small amount of business to conclude, and therefore I put forward that proposal. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
by leave - I move: 
That the Senate places on record its appreciation of the long and meritorious service rendered by  Sir Alister  McMuIlin K.C.M.G. who will have held the office of  President  of the Senate for a record period of 17 years 9 months on his retirement from the Senate on 30th lune 1971; That the Senate also records its appreciation of the distinguished service rendered to the Parliament and to Australia by  Senator T.  L. Bull, O.B.E.,  Chairman  of Committees and  Deputy President, Senator the Hon.  Malcolm Scott,  Senator the Hon.  Dame Annabelle Rankin, D.B.E.,  Senator Dame  Ivy Wedgwood, D.B.E.,  Senator A.  Hendrickson,  Senator the Hon.  P. J. Kennelly,  Senator J.  P. Toohey,  Senator G.  H. Branson.  Senator C.  F. Ridley,  Senator F.  Dittmer and  Senator R.  H. Lacey; and That the Senate extends to all retiring senators its good wishes for a long and happy retirement. 
You,  Sir Alister,  have had a distinguished career since you joined this Parliament as a Liberal Party senator for New South Wales in 1951. You have had a record period as  President  of the Senate, a position to which you were first elected in 1953. You have been  Chairman  of the Senate Standing Orders Committee from September 1956; a member of the House Committee, of the Library Committee - being  Chairman  of that Committee from 7th September 1956 - and of the Joint Committee on the Broadcasting of Parliamentary Proceedings from September 1956. You have been a member of the General Council of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association for 1954-55, 1956-57 and 1959-60, and have been  Chairman  of the Council on two occasions - in 1959-60 and 1969-70. You are also  Deputy Chairman  of the National Library and Chancellor of the University of Newcastle. On many occasions you have led parliamentary delegations overseas and have represented the Commonwealth at major international events many times. 
You have always espoused the importance of the Senate in the Commonwealth parliamentary system and have worked unceasingly to assist senators in the performance of their legislative duties and responsibilities. Perhaps one of the most important changes you have supported, and one from which we have to a large degree benefited by your efforts, was the introduction of the Legislative Research Service of the Parliamentary Library. You have devoted a great deal of time and energy to the planning of the proposed new and permanent Parliament House and were  Chairman  of the Joint Committee on that project. On this occasion I want to say to you - and 1 will be supported by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy),  the Leader of the Australian Democratic Labor Party  (Senator Gair)  and, I hope, by other senators - how appreciative we are of the wonderful services you have given to the national Parliament and to us as senators. Your dignity and you ability to control the Senate have been an inspiration to all who will follow you. 

 Senator Thomas Louis Bull, O.B.E., our  Chairman  of Committees, entered the Senate in 1965 as a Country Party senator for New South Wales. He was a member of the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Foreign Affairs from August 1965 and a member of the Australian delegation to the 12th Commonwealth Parliamentary Association Conference in Ottawa in 1966.  Senator Bull  was a member of the Senate Select Committee on the Container Method of Handling Cargoes and the Select Committee on Medical and Hospital Costs. He became Temporary  Chairman  of Committees on 18th April 1967 and was appointed  Chairman  of the Senate Standing Committee on Primary and Secondary Industry and Trade in August 1970.  His  appointment as  Chairman  of Committees was made on 25th November 1970.  Sir, as  your immediate  deputy,  we have come to respect the precision and capability of  Senator Bull  as  Chairman  of Committees and also as a senator. 

 Senator the Honourable Malcolm Scott who was elected as a Liberal senator for Western Australia in 1949 has also had  a  long and enviable record of service with the Commonwealth Parliament. He has held positions on the Printing Committee, the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Senate Select Committee on Road Safety, the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and the Senate Standing Committee on Health and Welfare.  Senator Malcolm  Scott has represented the Australian Parliament on several overseas delegations and lead the Australian delegation to the 5lst Annual Conference of the Inter-Parliamentary Union at Brazilia in 1962. He was appointed Government Whip in the Senate in March 1966, a position he held for several years until his appointment as Minister for Customs and Excise from 28th February 1968 to 12th November 1969. 

 Senator the Honourable Dame Annabelle Rankin, D.B.E., came to the Senate as a Liberal senator for Queensland, taking her place as far back as 1947. Dame Annabelle served on the Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances, the Standing Committee on Broadcasting and the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works. She had a long career as Whip, both in Opposition from October 1947 to October 1949 and as Government Whip from June 195.1 to January 1966. She was elevated to Dame of the Order of the British Empire in 1957. Dame Annabelle was appointed Minister for Housing in January 1966, the position she held until she announced her pending resignation to become Australian High Commissioner for New Zealand. 

 Senator Dame Ivy Wedgwood, D.B.E., was elected as a Liberal senator for Victoria in 1949. She has held positions on the House Committee and the Joint Committee of Public Accounts, the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory and was a delegate to the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association Conference in New Delhi in 1957. Dame Ivy was appointed Temporary  Chairman  of Committees from August 1962 and was a member of the Joint Select Committee on the New and Permanent Parliament House from December 1965. She was honoured with the title of Dame of the Order of the British Empire in 1967. She was  Chairman  of the Senate Select Committee on Medical and Hospital 
Costs and she is Chairman of the Senate Standing Committee on Health and Welfare. 

 Senator Albion Hendrickson entered the Senate in 1947 as an Australian Labor Party senator for Victoria following the 1946 general election. At various times he has served on the Committee of Disputed Returns and Qualications and the Senate Standing Orders Committee. He was Temporary  Chairman  of Committees from February 1956 to October 1966. In 1957 he was a member of the Australian delegation to the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association Conference at New Delhi and was a member of the Australian delegation to the 14th Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations at New York in 1959.  Senator Hendrickson  served with the Australian Imperial Force in World War I. 

 Senator the Honourable Patrick John Kennelly was elected as an Australian Labor Party senator for Victoria in the Senate election of 1953. He came to this chamber with an already long and distinguished career in the Victorian State Parliament.  Senator Kennelly  entered the Victorian Legislative Council for Melbourne West in a by-election in May 1938 and retired in June 1953. In the State Parliament he served as Honorary Minister, Commissioner of Public Works and Minister in Charge of Electrical Undertakings. In the Senate he has served on the Committee of Disputed Returns and Qualifications, the Joint Committee on Constitutional Review and the House Committee. He was appointed Temporary  Chairman  of Committees from September 1968.  Senator Kennelly  was  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition in the Senate from February 1956 to February 1957. He has been a trustee on the Parliamentary Retiring Allowances Trust since March 1967. He was also a member of Australian delegations to the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association Conference at Canberra in 1959 and the Inter-Parliamentary Union Conference at Copenhagen in 1964. 

 Senator James Philip Toohey was elected as an Australian Labor Party  Senator for  South Australia in the Senate election of 1953. He has served on many committees, including the Printing Committee, the Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances, the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory, the Joint 
Select Committee on Government and Parliamentary Publications, the House Committee, the Senate Standing Orders Committee and the Senate Select Committee on the Canberra Abattoir. 

 Senator George Howard Branson was elected as Liberal Party senator for Western Australia at the general election in 1958. During his term in office,  Senator Branson  has had wide service with committees, including the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Privileges Committee, the Senate Select Committee on the Container Method of Handling Cargoes, the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory, the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works, the Senate Select Committee on Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse and  Chairman  of the Senate Select Committee on Air Pollution.  Senator Branson  was Acting Government Whip in the Senate from 22nd April to 5th May this year. During World War II  Senator Branson  served with the second AIF in Malaya, where he was captured, and he was a prisoner of war from 1 942 to 1 945. 

 Senator Clement Frank Ridley was elected as an ALP senator for South Australia at the general election in 1958. He was appointed Temporary  Chairman  of Committees from February 1964 and a member of the Printing Committee from March 1964. He served on the Committee of Disputed Returns and Qualifications, the Standing Committee on Publications and the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution.  Senator Ridley  was a member of the Australian Delegation to the Twentieth Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations at New York in 1965. 

 Senator Felix Dittmer, a distinguished doctor of medicine, entered the Senate as an ALP senator for Queensland in 1959. However, he had already had a distinguished career as a Queensland State parliamentarian prior to joining the Senate. He first entered the Queensland Legislative Assembly in 1950 and was  Deputy  Leader of the State Parliamentary Labor Party at the time of his defeat at the 1957 State election. Since his election to the Senate,  Senator Dittmer  has represented the Commonwealth Parliament as a member of the Australian Delegation to the General Assembly of the United Nations at New York in 1962 and the Parliamentary Dele gation to South America in 1965 and to South East Asia in 1967. He has been a member of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works since May 1963 and has served on the Senate Select Committee on Medical and Hospital Costs. 
Finally, and certainly by no means least,  Senator Robert  Herbert Lacey was elected as ALP senator for Tasmania in 1964. Previously he had served in the Tasmanian House of Assembly for a period in 1959.  Senator Lacey  has been a member of the Senate Standing Orders Committee since February 1967. In 1966 he was a member of the Australian Delegation to the Twelfth Commonwealth Parliamentary Association Conference in Ottawa. He also served on the Senate Select Committee on Air Pollution. 
For the record I have put a fairly brief detail of the service that has been given to the nation, firstly, by you,  Mr President,  and then by the other senators who are about to retire. It is significant, I think, to record that, because of the effluxion of time and because of other circumstances, about 20 per cent of our senators will be retiring shortly. We want all of you to feel that, in your going, you carry with you the warm regard and admiration of those of us who remain. You,  Mr President,  have been here a long time.  Senator Hendrickson  and  Senator Dame  Annabelle Rankin have been here a long time. The other senators who are retiring have not been here so long a time. The Senate is a place in which we express our political convictions firmly and with vigour. It is not a place for cissies. Through it all we live together in a sense. We come to understand men and women in the activities of life. We have a great comaraderie which transcends Party politics. We do not shrink from expressing our Party views and our convictions. Through the Parliament there is a recognition of the humanities and of the need for men and women to live in understanding. When we have differences we have a capacity to agree to differ because we know that, in our democratic process, this is the way it must be. 
I think that those honourable senators who are not retiring will feel a certain emotional reaction to the fact that no less than 12 of our colleagues are going into political retirement at least so far as the Senate is concerned. 
In moving the motion I wish on my own behalf and on behalf of all the others, Government senators, to convey to you,  Mr President,  and the other honourable senators I have named our very best wishes to you all as you go away from this place and to acknowledge the great contribution you all have made, in whatever capacities you have served - as  President, Chairman  of Committees,  chairman  and members of committees and senators - to the people of Australia and to the nation by the service you have given in the Senate. 
(8.38)- in reply - I make it clear that I am responding to the debate and closing the debate. I would like it to be understood that I am doing that, but I did not want to deprive anybody who might want to speak of the opportunity to speak. Give me credit for that consideration. Firstly, this is a Supply Bill. This Bill will provide supply for Government services for five-twelfths of the next financial year. We need about $l,219m. That sum is. spread over. the departments. When we come back .in August, in the Budget session,, this $1,2 19m will be covered by the Budget when we appropriate for the full  12  months. We will have an opportunity to examine the Estimates and to consider the amounts in detail. The Bill is a procedure to enable its to pay salaries, wages and pensions and to provide all the necessary benefits and all the essential services df government, h other words, it is a mechanical procedure, interposed in the debate is an amendment moved by  Senator Murphy,  to which  Senator Gair  has moved an amendment I feel bound to point out to the Senate that neither amendment seeks to defeat the Bill Both of them, in fact, seek to add words at the end of the motion for the second reading of the Bill. So, we are agreed that we will pass supply; but certain words are sought to be added at the end of the motion, first by  Senator Murphy  and subsequently by  Senator Gair. 
Whilst I have been careful to refrain from participating in the interchange of words and expressions between the Opposition Party and the third party - the Democratic Labor Party - I feel bound to point out that it is not really a very serious exchange in which they are engaging. Obviously, on all sides of the Senate we are agreed that we will pass the legislation. I come now to the amendment and the amendment to the amendment. The amendment moved by  Senator Murphy  reads: 
At end of motion add -  but the Senate is of opinion that the social services of the Commonwealth are so inadequate as to constitute social injustice and is of the opinion (hat, unless the inadequacies are substantially remedied in the Budget, it should be rejected'. 
That refers to the Budget to be presented in August. The Democratic Labor Party has moved an amendment to that. It reads: 
Leave out all words after 'Commonwealth', insert 'should be thoroughly reviewed in the next Budget'. 
With the DLP amendment, the motion would read: 
That the Bill be now read a second time, but the Senate is of opinion that the social services of the Commonwealth should be thoroughly reviewed in the next Budget. 

It is an expression couched in more moderate term's than those in which the expression by the Opposition is couched. In truth, the' Government finds no difficulty with the amendment to the amendment for the very good reason that we always do what it seeks to have done. The very essence of the Budget is that all matters are reviewed. It has been stated quite categorically from time to time by the Government that when we come to the Budget session we will review all manner of payments, expenditures and services in the social services, repatriation, health and other government agency fields. So, this is an automatic and essential part of a government's responsibility. Budget time is the time to review these matters. In fact, legislation is brought down in the Parliament and that legislation is reflected upon in this place, votes are taken and approval is given or not given. For that reason the Government and I, as Leader of the Government in the Senate, find no difficulty at all in accepting the words that have been proposed by  Senator Gair. 

It serves a purpose in that it emphasises the point.  Senator Wood  might argue that it is superfluous. I have said that this will be done anyway. But, in fact, it is an mendment to an amendment and I see no impropriety in it. I see it only as emphasising what the Government will do. To the extent that it emphasises what we will do anyway, it has its value. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI started by saying that both the amendment and the amendment to the amendment seek only to add words to the motion to give passage to the legislation. For that reason I see no reason to resist the words  of  Senator Gair's  amendment. I believe that we are at one on the need to pass supply. Were we not to pass supply, of course, we would have a disastrous situation. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI do not want to enter into the disputation that occurred between the 2 sections on the left of the Chair.  Senator Keeffe  admitted that the Opposition had a certain purpose in moving its amendment. This was heard in the corridors of this place, and I think the Press referred to it. It was evident that an amendment was to be moved to the motion for the second reading of the Supply Bill and that it had a purpose. I hear things, too, sometimes. But I do not want to enter into that. I want to get on with the job. I want to have this Supply Bill passed. We have many other Bills to pass. I know that there are some very important matters that honourable senators want to debate. I do not believe that by debtaing this Bill tonight we will achieve anything other than the passage of it. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be left out of  Senator Murphy's  amendment  (Senator Gair's amendment)  to be left out. 
(4.50)  -  In view of  Senator Branson's  motion, I will have to withdraw my motion and move an amendment. I move: 
Leave out 'a later hour of the day', insert 'the next day of sitting'. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT  - The question is that the amendment moved by  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson be agreed to. All those of that opinion say 'aye'; to the contrary 'no'. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT-I think the 'ayes' have it. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT  - I will put the question again. The question is that the amendment moved by  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson be agreed to. All those of that opinion say 'aye'; to the contrary 'no'. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Two voices are sufficient. Ring the bells. 
It will go over to the next day of sitting, senator. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  With the concurrence of the Senate, I put the question that the amendment moved by  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson be agreed to. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT  - That is the motion,  Senator Branson.  I am putting the amendment. I appoint  Senator Withers  as teller for the 'ayes' and  Senator Byrne  as teller for the 'noes'. 
Question put: 
I wish to move a motion concerning the report of the Committee of Privileges. 

 Senator. Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI am in the hands of the Senate. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - Is it the wish of the Senate that the bells be rung? There being no objection, I order the ringing of the bells. (The bells having been rung) 
Motion (by  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson) agreed to: 
That the Senate adopt the report of the Committee of Privileges, presented to the Senate this day, upon articles in the 'Sunday Review' and the 'Sunday Australian' of 2nd May 1971; and 
That  Mr J.  R. Walsh, Editor of the 'Sunday Review', and  Mr H.  R. Rothwell, Editor of the Sunday Australian', do attend the Senate, on their own behalf and on behalf of their publishers, at a quarter-past two p.m., on Friday, 14th May 1971. 
(8.0)  -  This motion relates to an addendum to the motion for the second reading of the New South Wales Grant (Flood Mitigation) Bill which was carried by the Opposition parties voting for it. The motion merely says that that resolution be conveyed to the House of Representatives by message. I do not resist it. I suggest that the question be put. 
(11.1) - I formally second the motion. The Government does not resist the reference of this matter to the Standing Committee on Social Environment. I have conferred with the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  and have expressed the view that the Publications Committee would be a better vehicle for such a reference. I do not challenge the substance of the motion. Most honourable senators are aware of the difficulties that can be encountered when one is seeking information from the telephone directory. Mostly we are in a hurry to get the information quickly and undoubtedly we get frustrated with the format. This is almost the universal experience. I believe that it is all right for this matter to be referred for investigation. Perhaps subsequently I can talk with  Senator Condon  Byrne and discuss means whereby it may be possible to have a cross-reference to the Publications Committee. 
I am agreeing to the motion on the understanding that this will be a short reference to the Standing Committee on Social Environment. I think the reference could be disposed of very quickly. We are now in the dying hours of this session and the Senate will return in August when a new Committee, and probably a new Chairman, will be appointed; so I should not like to be agreeing to any long term reference. This should be a quick reference and perhaps some form of co-operation can be achieved with the Publications Committee. So I do not resist the motion. 
by leave - At the request of  Senator Branson,  I move - 
That  Senator Branson  be discharged from attendance on the Privileges Committee and that  Senator Withers  be appointed in his place. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
(8.15)  -  in reply - I thank the Senate for the assurance that it will give passage to the Bill. Adverting to  Senator Little's  contribution to the debate, I feel bound to say to him that the purpose of this Bill is not to impose taxation; it is to give revenue to the States. I should say that that about 98 per cent of  Senator Little's  contribution, worthy though it may have been, seemed to me to refer to the wrong Bill. Earlier today we dealt with the Income Tax Assessment Bill, and I should have thought that what he said tonight would have had far more application to that Bill. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONYes. I also will refer to them. I allowed  Senator Little  to have a fair go, but I must admit that I felt like interjecting and saying: 'Look, you must be on the wrong Bill.' The purposes of the States Grants Bill are to amend the States Grants Act 1970 to provide for the payment of additional grants to the States as compensation for loss of receipts duty revenue and as special revenue assistance to help finance Budget deficits. 

 Senator Little spoke with some force, 1 am bound to admit, on the question of receipts tax. But the purpose of this Bill - and at the moment I am concerned only with the passage of this Bill - is to give to the States revenue which they would have received but for the fact that this Senate defeated the receipts tax legislation. When we dealt with the receipts duties legislation I well recall  Senator Little's  Leader saying: We oppose this receipts tax legislation. Although we recognise that the States have to have their finances made available to them, we are saying that you are doing it by the wrong method. We will vote against this receipts tax legislation because it has inequitable implications for the States, particularly, Victoria. I remember  Senator Little's  Leader saying that, and I took it on board. He also said: 'We realise that the States, under the CommonwealthState financial agreement, have to have certain revenue, but what we are saying to you is: "Get it some other way".' Worthy though some of  Senator Little's  points may have been, we are concerned tonight with a Bill which is designed to give to the States some $59m to replace the revenue which they would have received from the receipts duty tax and an additional $43 m for the purpose of helping them to finance their Budget deficits. 
I am delighted to -hear that the Opposition and the Australian Democratic Labor Party will support the Bill. One. matter of substance was raised, first of all, by  Senator Kennelly  and then by  Senator Hannan  and  Senator Little.  It relates to the provision in the Bill which states, in effect, that if Victoria does not pay its payroll tax, then the shortfall will be deducted from its share of the assistance which is being provided to the States under this Bill. I think that an amount of $9m is involved. Of course, the High Court of Australia subsequently has given a unanimous decision in favour of the Commonwealth. Senators Kennelly, Hannan and Little asked: 'Why leave this provision in the Bill? It is superfluous.' To a degree I cannot argue against that proposition. Subsequent events have caught up with the provision in clause 5 of the Bill which relates to the deduction of approximately $9m from Victoria for its refusal to pay payroll tax to the Commonwealth. But to delete the provision, as I think Senators Hannan and Little suggested, would mean that Our amendment would have to go to the other place. In due course the other place would deal with the amendment but, in fact, it might say: 'We do not accept your amendment', and then it would have to be returned to the Senate. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI am giving  Senator Byrne  the facts of life. I am being pragmatic. He is being idealistic. The fact is that the provision does not do any harm in the Bill. It is there, and it was a wise precaution to put it there. As subsequent events have indicated, the provision is no longer necessary. I do not think we should amend the Bill by deleting clause 5. That would involve sending a message to the other place. It could involve a message coming back to us. This clause has no real significance now. That is the reason why I say to  Senator Kennelly  that, while there may be some who might like to bring the other place back - and we might like to come back if necessary - I believe the logical thing to do is to leave the clause in the Bill. The Bill was drafted prior to a decision being given by the High Court. Looked at iu one way, the clause gives effect to the High Court's Judgment, but I would not like to put that as an argument. I think that we should leave the clause in the Bill. 
One other matter was raised by  Senator Hannan.  He referred to the discretion to determine deductions from grants payable to the States. I think the second reading speech dealt with that matter. I think an elementary discretion was provided because it would not have been possible to "give a precise amount. Because the' precise amount that the States Would need as revenue could not be given, a discretion had to be written tate the Bill. "I do not want to open up a debate on that topic at this point of time; suffice it to say that the discretion is quite clearly expressed- in the second reading speech which- I commend to all honourable' senators. They should refresh their memories from it because this Bill was introduced .some time ago.. The discretion is clearly denned in relation to assessing the amount of revenue involved under this measure.  . . 
I thank the Senate for the passage of the -Bill. We should be delighted to know that we are giving - not 'giving' in its true sense; I do not want to gild the lily - assistance to the States to help overcome their deficits. I speak to  Senator Little  with some particularity. By this Bill we are recognising the need for assistance to the States to help overcome their deficits and the need to replace what they lost when the Commonwealth Government was confronted with a loss of the receipts tax legislation. For that reason the Bill should carry the blessing of all of us. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
Clauses 1 to 4 - by leave - taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 5 (Effect on grants of non-payment of pay-roll tax). 
(8.34)- Without closing the debate, I think I should respond to  Senator Kennelly.  The simple fact is that the provisions of clauses 5 and 6 apply to every State. They are not peculiar to Victoria. That is the first point to remember. The second point is that, despite the confidence of  Senator Kennelly  in what would be done with the finances of the Commonwealth in certain circumstances, this Bill involves in round figures an amount of Si 02m and if it is not passed the States will not receive this amount. The States will not receive it until the Bill is passed. They are expecting to get it before the end of this financial year.  Senator Kennelly  put the case as he saw it but the facts are not as he saw them. This Bill is to provide to the States under 2 heads about $102m and it is necessary for the Bill to be passed so that the States can get the money. It is all very well to say that if the Senate send a message to the other place it would not come back but would ratify the payment of this money in August and all would be well. That proposition presumes of course that the Treasury would find the Si 02m in the hope and on the assumption that the payment of this money to the States would be ratified ultimately. I regret that k does not quite work that way. After all $102m is not an inconsiderable amount. 

That is so. I think the Auditor-General would be casting pretty stern looks and writing some pretty stern messages if that procedure were adopted. We want the passage of this legislation and we want the provisions of clauses 5 and 6 to be in the Bill. Whilst there has been a High Court decision and certain statements have been made, the fact of the matter is that the provisions of clauses 5 and 6 apply to any State and every State. If a State does not collect its payroll tax, there will be means in the law for the reduction by that amount of the amount paid to that State by the Commonwealth. I would ask  Senator Kennelly  to consider withdrawing his motion on the basis that the procedure we are following is to most expeditious way of dealing with the matter. It is proper that those provisions remain in the Bill. 
by leave - I move: 
That the Senate rise tonight at 11 p.m., unless otherwise ordered, and that tomorrow Wednesday, 19th May, unless otherwise ordered, the times of sitting be: 10 a.m. to 1 p.m.; 2.15 p.m. to 6 p.m.; and 8 p.m. to 1 1 p.m. 
The Senate will note that I have only moved times for the balance of today's sitting and for tomorrow. It is hoped that these hours of sitting will be sufficient to dispose of the remaining business. If not, before 11 p.m. tomorrow night I shall move the necessary motion to enable the Senate to sit after tomorrow night. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONYes. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI think we are all reasonable men and women when it comes to the question of time. If we got reasonably close to finishing by mutual agreement we would sit on but if there were no mutual agreement we would automatically come back the next day. The motion includes the words 'unless otherwise ordered*. 
 Mr Deputy President,  I seek leave to propose a motion relating to this debate. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT  -  Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
Motion (by  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson) agreed to: 
That the debate be adjourned, and that the adjourned debate be made an order of the day for a later hour. 
(9.51)  -  by leave  -  I move: 
That the matter contained in General Business, Order of the Day No. 23, be referred to the Privileges Committee for consideration in conjunction with the matter referred to the Standing Orders Committee on 29th April regarding a proposed amendment of the Standing Orders dealing with privilege, with a view to establishing the rights, responsibilities, obligations and protection of senators, members of the Press and others in relation to Committee proceedings. 
If this motion is carried, order of the day No. 23 will be removed from the notice paper. 
by leave -  Mr Deputy President,  the Whips have informed me that they have received information from the transport officer to the effect that there is a high degree of possibility that honourable senators will not be able to be accommodated on aircraft leaving Canberra late this afternoon for a variety of reasons which I do not think are germane to what I want to say to the Senate. Therefore, it would seem to me that I should ask the Senate for its complete co-operation in order to terminate our sittings by 1 o'clock today. I understand that honourable senators will be able to travel on aircraft leaving Canberra at 2.55 p.m. and 3.15 p.m. but that, because of heavy bookings and other matters, there is a high degree of probability that they would not be able to leave Canberra on later aircraft. There are 3 hours between 10 o'clock and 1 o'clock and, looking at the business paper, I think that we can deal with the business in that period without in any way prejudicing our approach to the disposal of the business. Therefore, I ask for a high degree of cooperation from the Senate in order to achieve this result. 
 Mr President,  as Leader of the Government in the Senate I offer, on behalf of all honourable senators in the first instance, my congratulations to  Senator Prowse  on his election as  Chairman  of Committees.  Senator Prowse  is a good parliamentarian, one who devotes himself to the problems of the Parliament and the Commonwealth. I am sure that he will carry out his office with dignity and precision. Not only do I congratulate him on behalf of the Senate, but also I offer particular congratulations on behalf of the Liberal Party in the coalition. 
by leave - I wish to report to the Senate that I have received a letter from you,  Mr President,  in the following terms: 
Following my election to the position of  President  of the Senate, I have to Inform youthat I wish to withdraw from the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange. 
 Mr Odgers,  I remind the Senate that the time has come when it is necessary for the Senate to choose one of its mem bers to be  President.  For that reason I move: 
That  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack do takethe chair of this Senate as  President. 
by leave -  I  desire to inform the Senate that  Senator Young  has been appointed Government Whip in the Senate. 
by leave - I wish to make a statement on behalf of the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon).  Whenever I use the first person singular personal pronoun honourable senators will understand that 1 am referring to the Prime Minister. 
I desire to inform the House of certain ministerial changes and arrangements since the Parliament last met.  Senator the  Honourable  Sir Kenneth  Anderson has been appointed Minister for Health. The Honourable N. H. Bowen, Q.C., has been appointed Minister for Foreign Affairs The Honourable David Fairbairn, D.F.C., has been appointed Minister for Defence.  Mr Fairbairn  will, for the time being, continue to hold the portfolio of Education and Science.  Senator the  Honourable I. J. Greenwood, QC, has been appointed Attorney-General. The Honourable Peter Howson has been appointed Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts and Minister-in-Charge of Tourist Activities. The Honourable R. V. Garland has been appointed Minister for Supply. Also since the House last met the Minister for Customs and Excise,  Mr Chipp,  has been appointed  Deputy  Leader of the House and Minister Assisting the Minister for National Development, and the Minister for the Army,  Mr Peacock,  has been appointed Minister Assisting the Treasurer. 

 Mr President, 1 turn now to representation in the 2 chambers. The Minister for Defence will continue to be represented in the Senate by  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson and the Minister for Foreign Affairs by  Senator Wright,  who will also continue to represent the Minister for Education and Science. The Minister for Health will continue to be represented in the House by  Dr Forbes  and the AttorneyGeneral will be represented by  Mr N.  H. 
Bowen. The Minister for Supply will be represented in the Senate by  Senator Drake-Brockman,  the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts will be represented by  Senator Greenwood,  and  Senator Cotton  will represent the MinisterinCharge of Tourist Activities. 
(8.0) - I present the following papers: 
Civil Works Programme 1971-72. 
Commonwealth Payments to or for the States. 1971-72. 
Estimates of Receipts and Summary of Estimated Expenditure for the year ending 30 June 1972. 
Expenditure - 
Particulars of Proposed Expenditure for the Service of the year ending 30 June 1972. Particulars of Proposed Provision for Certain Expenditure in respect of the year ending 30 June 1972. 
Government Securities on Issue at 30 June 1971. 
Commonwealth Income Tax Statistics for Income Year 1968-69. 
National Income and Expenditure, 1970-71.  and move: 
That the Senate take note  of  the papers. 
Tonight the Treasurer is delivering in another place his Budget Speech for 1971- 72. It is my privilege to outline to the Senate the Budget proposals of the Government. 
Amongst these are important proposals to improve social service and repatriation benefits, to provide new forms of assistance for rural industries, notably wool, and to increase considerably our expenditure on defence. There will be minor tax concessions which, like the social services proposals, are oriented towards the claims of children and students. 
Measures will also bc brought' down to increase revenues and charges. 
(10.8)  -  In reply - I want to expose a piece of complete nonsense, and I refer to comments made in relation to the sittings of the Senate. It is provided that the Senate shall sit on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays and, unless otherwise ordered, the time for rising on Thursday nights shall be 10.30, allowing for adjournment debates which can go on ad infinitum after that time. Anyone who says that there is some machiavellian plot for the Senate to adjourn at 4 p.m. on Thursday has either a fertile imagination or has been listening at the wrong keyholes. When it is suggested that persons in the Army are listening at wrong keyholes, I know the keyholes at which they usually listen. Having said that, it is my intention that the Senate will continue sitting until 10.30 on Thursday night. I have already indicated this to the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy).  The next matter was one which  Senator Keeffe  started. 

You started it fair enough. I am about to tell you the facts of life about question time on the days when swearing in ceremonies are conducted. For the last 20 years - I will repeat that period in case  Senator Keeffe  has not got the message - for the last 20 years we have not had question time on the days of swearing in ceremonies. 

I have not finished yet. The honourable senator likes to have a go, but when the weight is applied to him he hops around. The fact of the matter is that for the last 20 years we have not had question time on the days of swearing in ceremonies. The draft procedures were circulated accordingly on my instructions, based on what has happened even before I came here, and I have been here for 18 years. Only this morning the Leader of the Opposition said to me: 'Look, we would like to have questions today.' I said to him: 'If there is a feeling that you would like to have question time today, we can have it when we return here after the ceremony, and that could continue until the dinner adjournment.' I had in mind that the Budget would come on at 8 o'clock, as it has done for the last 57 years. These are the facts of life and any suggestion that there was a deep scheme to bury questions that we did not want to be asked or answered today is sheer nonsense. 
As Leader of the Government in the Senate I have given up trying to meet the wishes of the majority in this chamber. I tried that at the end of the last session and we continued on for  9  sitting days after the other place finished. Over those  9  sitting days people were coming to me from all over the chamber and asking: 'When are we getting up?'. They were not all from my side of the chamber. They were not all sitting behind me. 

No. I can take in those people in a complete sweep of the Senate. It was said to me: 'Let us get up. We have been here too long.' I said: 'I agree.' But I was not prepared to make a move until T felt that juslice had been done to those people who really wanted to keep going until Christmas Day. I reiterate that we have not had question time on the days of swearing in ceremonies for approximately 20 years. Today it was unfortunate- 
I am making my speech now.  Senator Keeffe  has had his go. I am not impressed by his threats. Through you,  Mr President,  I point out to  Senator Keeffe  that in the majority of cases he has sought to have his questions asked and answered in full, as is his right. I do not deny that. If questions take a long time tomorrow, well, that is tomorrow. It was unfortunate today that despite the accommodation 1 gave at the instigation of the Leader of the Opposi tion, question time ran for only about 17 minutes, give or take half a minute. That was not in my thinking. I envisaged that question time would last for about three quarters of an hour, which is the average length of question time. A series of petitions was presented, which took a little longer than usual, and there were a few other minor matters to be disposed of. I emphasise that the practice adopted today is contrary to the usual procedure. It was adopted in the spirit in which the Leader of the Opposition and I usually operate in an attempt to accommodate the requirements of the Senate. It comes a little hard at 10 o'clock at night, when this issue started, to have hurled at mc that I am a great plotter who is seeking to destroy the rights of honourable senators opposite. Goodness me. I could have stood on my dignity today and forced a vote on the issue and I would have had the numbers to support my viewpoint. 

Very well. Having disposed of the matter about question time today and having disposed of the prospect of the Senate rising at 4 o'clock on Thursday, I now want to come to the next proposition which  Senator Keeffe  raised, which was that we had been in recess for so long between the last sessional period and the current one, and that we should be ready to go now. We are ready to go, and let us face it, we will be going until December. This statement that nothing has been done between the time when we rose in May and 17th August denies the fact that during the recess  Senator Keeffe  and many other honourable senators have worked tremendously hard in many ways. 
I have called for and received information concerning the silting of committees. I will select four or five committees at random from the list which the  Clerk  of the Senate has given me. In the week commencing 26th July the Senate Standing Orders Committee sat on 1 day and the Senate Regulations and Ordinances Committee sat on 1 day. In the week commencing 2nd August the Senate Select Committee on Off-shore Petroleum Resources met on 2 days and the Senate 
Select Committee on Securities and Exchange met on 3 days. In the week commencing 19th July the Securities and Exchange Committee met on 2 days. In the week commencing 16th August the Senate Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts and the Senate Privileges Committee have met. Other committees also are meeting this week, but that does not affect the argument I am submitting. In the week commencing 9th August the Securities and Exchange Committee met on 10th. 11th and 12th August. Work is going on. 
If we are to have this committee system - and honourable senators opposite are as keen to have it as are honourable senators on my side of the chamber, and we have reached agreement on it - we will have many committees meeting. I do not want to canvass other matters which are contained in the report of the Standing Orders Committee, but the simple facts of life are that we will be confronted with a situation where we will have to exercise some self discipline in our plenary sessions of the Senate in order to be able to do the work involved in these committees which we ourselves have set up. I am not a gambling man, I am a very strict Presbyterian, but I will bet 20c, at any rate, that what I predict will come true, and it will come true during this session. Honourable senators opposite, as well as honourable senators on my side of the chamber, will experience great difficulty in finding time to carry out the tremendous amount of work which is unquestionably being done by the Senate committees. 
I come to the next matter raised which referred to the response to questions. I look at the Senate notice paper today and see the questions on notice, which would have been disposed of if we had had time. I think that  Senator Keeffe  had a point of grievance today. I see that his name appears on 9 occasions. I have explained the circumstances in which these questions on notice were not disposed of today. I say to  Senator Keeffe  that it is not really fair for him to be directing his criticism in the way that he has. I provided the opportunity for question time today to accommodate a request from  Senator Keeffe's  Leader, and I did so against the background of what has happened in the last 20 years. To criticise me for that is, I think, out of kilter and I regret that such criticism has been made. In regard to the matter raised by  Senator Keeffe  concerning replies to questions on notice, I will certainly raise with the Ministers in the Senate and with the Ministers in the other place any instances in which my attention is directed to questions in respect of which there has been inordinate delay in providing answers. I will use my good offices to see that answers are given as quickly as possible. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
 We have reached an extraordinary state in the affairs of the nation if we are going to start directing in the Senate of Australia the battle proceedings of our troops overseas. I could think of nothing more calculated to put them as risk than that and therefore I regard the question as a stupid question. 
(10.44)  -  This motion, which was put down by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  and to which  Senator Willesee  spoke on behalf of the Opposition, is the reflection of a motion which was put down on 17th August in another place by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  there. Some of the phraseology in this motion follows the phraseology of the motion which was put down by the Leader of the Opposition in the other place. I think that is about where it ended. Quite obviously the Australian Labor Party held a Caucus meeting and decided that the motion would be put down in both places. I say this in fairness to  Senator Willesee,  who has led for the Opposition in this chamber. That is about where the similarity ended, because whatever I am going to say about what happened in the other place 1 go on record here as saying that  Senator Willesee  has argued his case - though I do not agree with it - with dignity and respect for the parliamentary system. He has not employed the unfortunate element of personalities which permeated the case which was put by  Mr Whitlam  in the other place. Of course inevitably we are in a situation where the main game is played early and the reserve game is played at the time when the main game is normally played. In other words we are having this motion in the after effects of the clash which happened in the other place when the motion was put down and a vote was taken. The vote was defeated without any variation in normal party affiliations. The great prospects of what was going to happen as a consequence of the great motion put down by  Mr Whitlam  proved to be completely misjudged, misguided and, in fact, completely inaccurate. 
I am going to follow the pattern of  Senator Willesee,  who is the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, and respond, I hope, in a dignified and proper way which I trust usually becomes me although sometimes I become a little anxious. But the fact is that we must look at the issue as it was put down by the recognised Leader of the Opposition. I read in this morning's Sydney Morning Herald' a heading 'Political humbug'. I am not suggesting that  Senator Willesee  used this phraseology, but his leader did and Hansard is here for all to read. The article states: 
Yesterday's censure motion, curiously framed to invite attack against  Mr McMahon  personally rather than against  his Government, was singularly futile. Labor was entitled to seek debate on the circumstances surrounding recent Cabinet changes, and  Mr McMahon  willingly made time available to them. In the event it was time wasted. 
Today I have willingly made time available at the first possible opportunity to have a debate in this place. The article continues: 

 Mr Whitlam set the tone of Labor's contribution by offering an exercise in gossip mongering, in speculative conspiracy theory and in abuse by innuendo.  His  intention apparently was to tempt Liberal dissenters to ruin the Prime Minister and propel the coalition parties into some kind of wilderness - 
And so on. In the event, that did not happen. In the event, it is being debated here.  Senator Willesee  bases his argument on 2 heads. He says that these various changes have created a state of instability. Then he referred to various portfolios which changed and I think he referred to the portfolio of Minister for Health which I have assumed. He mentioned that 1 am confronted with 72 outstanding questions upon notice. If the resolving and the answering of those 72 outstanding questions were the limit of my problems I would be far more relieved because health - let us face it - is a most difficult and complex portfolio. But after all it is proper to say that I am a very senior Minister in the Cabinet. It is proper to say that I have been a Minister for  7i  years. It is proper to say that I have had a lifetime experience in some of the side issues of health at any rate, and if Health is a difficult portfolio - and all of us on both sides recognise it is - I think I have a responsibility as a senior Minister to accept the challenge and do what I believe to be right in the interests of government and the people of Australia. Since there was a reference to me and the Health portfolio all I say is that I am not unaware of the problems or the challenge which the acceptance of it will be both physically and mentally. But because I hold a senior position in the government and on the Executive, if I am to sit here I have to be prepared to accept that sort of situation. 
Equally this is true of the Foreign Affairs portfolio.  Mr N.  H. Bowen, who is the Minister for Foreign Affairs, is a former Attorney-General and a member of the Cabinet. He has not had as long political experience as I have but it is equally true to say that he- has held responsible portfolios. He is a lawyer of great eminence. Before he entered politics he was probably one of the leading equity lawyers of the Commonwealth. With his experience he is admirably suited to assuming responsibility for the high office of Minister for Foreign Affairs. The same is to be said of  Mr Fairbairn,  who is now the Minister for Defence and who has held the portfolios of Air, National Development and Education and Science. I do not think that it is arguable - and this is on  Senator Willesee's  own sayso - that our Government is based on ministerial responsibility backed up by a Public Service which has been trained, which is experienced and indeed which does not have any political affiliations - although there are some that try to make members of the Public Service have political affiliations. As  1  say, the Public Service is geared, trained, experienced and competent to give the service of government. 
I want to make the observation to  Senator Willesee  that the Wetsminster system to which he referred does provide that the right to make changes in the composition of his Cabinet is one of a Prime Minister's prerogatives. This has never been argued before. 1 am surprised that it is being argued now that the Prime Minister should not have that prerogative. I could go further. T could say that we on our side of politics do not attempt to tell the Australian Labor Party what it should do in its own domestic affairs. We sit on the side and say: 'If you make some changes it might be more advantageous to us politically'. We might criticise them in that sense. But  Her  Majesty's Opposition has a responsibility just as the Government has and the affairs of the Labor Party should not be made the occasion, as they were yesterday in another place for an attempt to blackguard the character of people because a change has been made. I could easily embark upon a heated argument as to whether it was wise to make a comment about what happened to  Mr Daly  when he was removed from the shadow cabinet. I could reflect upon the position of the spokesman for the Australian Labor Party on immigration matters. I do not want to go into those things. 

Let us take another one. I could talk of the man who was the shadow minister on primary industry matters. I could ask whether it was  Dr Patterson  or someone else. But it does not matter, because that is not the way in which we debate such matters here. All I am saying is that ever since there has been a Parliament - and this would have begun in the mother of parliaments - the Prime Minister has had an inherent right to re-arrange his Cabinet. Equally, the Opposition has this right in respect of its own affairs; it has responsibilities in a democracy as we have. Since members of the Opposition constitute the official Opposition they have the right to move their various members from office to office as they see fit according to their own procedures and by their vote. 
I want to talk about only one other matter and I shall do so very quickly. I refer to the question of injurious influences. I believe that  Senator Willesee  did not make a case in relation to that matter.  His  remarks were directed at one newspaper. I do not intend to bite the bullet on that. Suffice it is to say that I have cuttings, as he has, not only from the paper to which he has referred - and in passing this was the 'Daily Telegraph' - but also from the Age', and from the leading article of the Herald' of Wednesday, 11th August, which I think was the day before the changes were made. I have one from the Melbourne 'Age' of 11th August and one from the 'West Australian' dated 12th August. In fact, I think that the 'Daily Telegraph' requoted some of the other papers all of which, as they have the right to do, expressed views as to what they thought should be done. I thought that  Senator Willesee  was perilously close to advocating that these papers should not be able to do that. Whilst a government, or an opposition too, does not necessarily let newspapers call the tune on what it is going to do the papers will still write about it. They still think they have the best political judges in the world; they still think they have the best economic writers in the world. They will always continue to write and the people like to read what has been written. But the final decision is a decision of a government; it is a decision of an executive. 
In the minute and a half which I have left I would say that it has been demonstrated by the vote in the other place yesterday that the Government has solidarity. AH its supporters voted with it against the motion that was proposed by the Opposition. They did so because they believe, and they know, that the Government has the capacity to give the people of Australia the form of government that they need and want. This Government has been able to give the people security. I was listening to the previous debate and heard some very stern words about national security and the industrial wing. I say that the people have confidence in this Government. The people believe that this Government is acting in the best interests of the whole nation. When the happy day comes and there is an election, the people will reaffirm what they have reaffirmed every time since 1949, namely, that our way of government in a democracy is a better way than the system advocated by the Opposition, and it will give stability to the people of Australia. 
Debate interrupted. 

I sought some information in relation to the value of gold and only a moment ago I was supplied with some background information from the Treasurer. Quite frankly I do not propose to give it in answer now. I want to examine it before I reply. For that reason I think it would be proper to put the question on notice. 
I do not have the information to answer the honourable senator's question, but I shall refer his question to the Treasurer without delay and get a reply from him. The question deals with a particular matter and it is proper that I should refer it to the Treasurer for a particular answer. 
(5.23)  -  Before moving a motion to bring on further business for debate until 5.45 this afternoon, I intimate that as General Business will take precedence of Government Business after 8 o'clock tonight I have it in contemplation to move the necessary motion to enable us to discuss the Standing Orders Committee report which has been tabled and then, if we dispose of that as I hope we will, I will be perfectly happy to come back, although strictly it is not General Business, to the debate on the ministerial statement on Vietnam. I now have to move a motion to enable us to debate that between now and 5.45. I move: 
That intervening business 1 be postponed until after consideration of Order of the Day No. 3- resumption of debate on the motion by the Minister for Works, that the Senate take note of the statement on Australian military forces in Vietnam. 
by leave - I present this statement on behalf of the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon).  When I use the word T it will be in the sense that it is the Prime Minister speaking. This was the statement that he gave last night. 
I announce tonight that the combat role which Australia took up over 6 years ago in Vietnam is soon to be completed. In 1965, when Australia first sent troops to that country, the continued survival of the Republic was in dire jeopardy. The scale and weight of enemy attacks were increasing, and North. Vietnam's intervention was becoming ever more brazen. It seemed only a matter of time before Hanoi and the Vietcong, which supported Hanoi's cause, would take over the country by main force in defiance of the 1954 Geneva Agreements. 
Beyond the immediate threats within and against Vietnam there was a militant China - a China which was giving direct moral and material aid to North Vietnam and which had in the recent past occupied Tibet and fought with India, a China whose ambitions and policies in the area were causing great concern. Nor was that all. The independence of Laos and Cambodia were in precarious balance. Insurgent activity in border areas of Thailand had already begun. Sukarnoist Indonesia was committing violence against its near neighbours, with the then powerful Indonesian Communist Party exercising major influence over Indonesian policies. 
This, then, was the situation in 1965. This was the background against which the Australian Government decided to commit Australian forces to the aid of South Vietnam. That decision was made in the national interest pursuant to our obligations under the Manila Treaty and at the invitation of the Republic of Vietnam. Its purpose was to help, jointly with the United States and others, to sustain and develop the confidence of the government and the people of the Republic; to help defend it; to develop its capacities to deal with both overt aggression and externally promoted insurgency; and to enable it to make its own decisions about its future in a context of greater security. That purpose has now been substantially achieved. 
Today the picture is different - in East Asia, in South East Asia, and not least in Indo-China itself. The aggression by North Vietnam has been slowed and its plans for over-running the South frustrated. Security throughout the country has improved remarkably. Successive pacification programmes have extended the physical control of the Vietnamese Government over the countryside. Political, economic and social advances have been made notwithstanding that the war has absorbed sp much of the people's time and energies. Above all, the armed forces of the Republic, with considerable help from the allies, have grown in size and developed their skills, cohesion and effectiveness. This has enabled them progressively to take over responsibilities from allied forces and at the same time to conduct operations against North Vietnamese forces in Cambodia and to disrupt their supply lines in southern Laos. 
To this changed and improved situation Australia has made a significant contribution. Australian forces of all arms have played an honourable and effective part in their areas of operation. They have been worthy of this country. They have been honoured by our Allies. The main Australian effort has been in the general area surrounding Saigon and in particular in Phuoc Tuy Province. There, the security situation has markedly improved. The enemy has largely lost the initiative. The Vietnamese territorial forces have been steadily developing their capacity. And in the last year have gradually expanded their own areas of operations. The enemy is still there of course, and some setbacks may yet occur. But it is our view, shared by the Government of the Republic, that the existing relative strengths are such that the territorial forces should be able to handle the likely contingencies. 
In these changing and improving circumstances, the Australian Government has been giving close consideration to the future of the Australian forces in Vietnam. It has for some time been our policy to withdraw our forces progressively as and when in our judgment, and after consultation with the Republic of Vietnam and the United States, the situation has allowed it. In coming to this judgment we have on each occasion considered several factors, including whether the forces and administration of the Republic have been ready and able to assume increased responsibility for local security. 
We now judge that the circumstances are such that further effect can be given to our withdrawal policy. I have recently been in correspondence on this subject with the  President  of the Republic of Vietnam, and also with  President  Nixon and  Sir Keith  Holyoake. I am now able to announce that the Government has decided to withdraw all remaining Australian combat forces from Vietnam. The forces will begin withdrawing in the next few months, giving the Vietnamese time to adjust their force dispositions. HMAS 'Brisbane', due out of service in Vietnamese waters early in September, will not be replaced. Most of the combat elements will be home in Australia by Christmas 1971. Shipment to Australia of stores and equipment will be completed in the early months of 1972. 
The Government has already pledged that, as the withdrawal of our forces proceeds, we will provide other appropriate forms of military assistance as well as economic aid. We have accordingly approved an aid package for the Republic of Vietnam totalling $25m, to be spent over the next 3 years. The package will include civil projects of an economic development character as well as defence aid in the form of military training and equipment. Seven million dollars have been set aside for this assistance in the current financial year. This figure will be progressively increased during the 2 succeeding years. 
We are also discussing with the Vietnamese Government plans to retain in the Republic some military training and advisory elements, for example instructors at the jungle warfare training centre in Nui Dat, if they are wanted and if satisfactory arrangements can be made. We hope that these elements will continue to work in close association with the United States effort in this field. 
Finally, I express the Government's conviction that the decision I have announced tonight is a mark of the success which has attended our policies and actions in Vietnam over the years. This does not mean that security in the area is yet fully achieved. The Government of South Vietnam will continue to face serious problems, aggravated by the continuing and flagrant North Vietnamese aggression in Cambodia and interference in Laos. South Vietnam is confident that it can overcome these problems if it continues to receive appropriate assistance. The Australian Government shares that confidence. It is the Government's earnest hope that the war can be brought to an early end by serious negotiations, that peace and stability will soon prevail throughout the area, and that the countries of Indo-China - not excluding North Vietnam - will be able to devote their energies with the help of others to worthwhile productive efforts. 
I now turn to national service. The present form of national service was introduced towards the end of 1964. Against the background of the situation at that time, which I have described, the Government decided that the strength of the Army needed to be increased from its then low level of some 23,000. It was apparent, notwithstanding pay rises some month* earlier, that this could nol be achieved in time by voluntary means alone. Accordingly, in November 1964, the then Prime Minister announced the introduction of the present national service scheme. Further developments in the situation led to the commitment in 1965 of major Australian Army units to Vietnam. In 1966 national servicemen were sent there. We now have a different situation. 
There is improved political stability in South East Asia. We have decided to withdraw our forces from Vietnam. These factors have implications for the composition of our defence forces. The major portion of our defence manpower is obtained by volunteer recruitment. The Navy and the Air Force are both entirely volunteer forces. On the other hand for the full time Army, where the numbers are larger, more than one-third of the strength has had to be obtained in recent times by other than voluntary means to ensure an Army of the size we need. The extent of our defence manpower is measured not simply by the size of our Regular forces, but by the totality of the Regular, Citizen and Reserve forces. Fully trained former national servicemen in the Reserve are of particular significance. Reviewing the situation the Government has concluded that there can be some reduction in the number of men serving full time in the Army. The Government accordingly proposes to reduce the full time strength of the Army by some 4,000 in the immediate future. It has decided to do this by reducing the period of full time national service from 2 years to 18 months. 
The present total liability of 5 years' service for national servicemen will remain unchanged. But henceforth more of this service will be rendered in the Reserve -  3i  years instead of 3 years as at present. National servicemen will be required to serve only 18 months full time. There will be complementary reductions in the period of part time service in the Citizen Forces which is at present available as an alternative to full time national service. These men will now normally serve a period of 5 years in the Citizen Forces. The number of men to be called up each year under the national service scheme, about 8,000, will be unchanged. At present, with 2 years' full time service, this means a total of some 16,000 full time national servicemen in the Army at any one time. With only 18 months' full time service, the number of full time national servicemen serving in the Army at any one time will fall to about 12.000. Correspondingly the total strength of the full time Army will fall by  4,000-  from about 44,000 to 40,000. This reduction in strength will not affect the present organisation of the Army into 9 battalions. Some will be on a reduced basis. 
The Government has given careful consideration to the effect of these changes on personnel already serving. We wish to ensure that the transition will be orderly and that as far as possible inequities are avoided. It has been decided that serving national servicemen who have completed 18 months' service will be discharged broadly in accordance with their length of service. This will be done over a period of some 3 months commencing late in October or early in November. Legislation giving effect to the Government's decisions will be introduced as quickly as possible. I am sure the Parliament will wish to give priority to it. In deciding on this reduction in national service, careful account has been taken of the strategic situation confronting us. While as I have said there have been improvements in many aspects of the situation in South East Asia, there are many continuing elements of insecurity and some new ones. At the same time, we see changes in the defence posture of our close allies, particularly the United States. These do not affect the fundamental character of our alliances. We must maintain a defence capability that is evident both to friendly countries and to potential enemies and which we could develop in adequate time should more immediate threats arise. National servicemen will still constitute a substantial proportion of our Army - some 12,000 in a total full time Army strength of about 40,000. 
The Government will review force levels as necessary as part of the 5-year defence rolling programme. It is important against the strategic outlook for the 1970s and the 1980s to have the right balance of equipment and men in the defence forces as a whole. Close attention to be given to all practicable means of increasing voluntary recruitment. Before the introduction of national service in 1964 there were improvements in pay but their effect on recruitment was only marginal. Since then there have been substantial improvements not only in pay but in other conditions of service, for example, the provision of many more married quarters and much improved barrack accommodation. The Government's establishment of the Kerr Committee, and the decisions it has already taken on the findings of that Committee, are further important steps. The Government will continue to ensure that conditions of service in our Armed Forces are as attractive as they can reasonably be with the aim of ensuring that the proportion of volunteers will be as large as practicable. I move: 
That the Senate take note of the statement. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Wheeldon)  adjourned. 
 I suggest that the debate be made an order of the day for a later hour this day. Today, after we have disposed of ministerial statements, we must dispose of a motion for disallowance of a regulation. When that has been disposed of we would come back to debating this statement as a priority - that is up until a quarter to six because after 8 o'clock general business is to be dealt with. In any event I would be prepared to negotiate on that matter at a later hour if necessary. I move: 
That the adjourned debate be made an order of the day for a later hour this day. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
(8.38)  -  For the purpose of convenience  Senator Wright  is leading on this matter because the issue with which we are dealing tonight is not a Party issue. He has been called out of the chamber for a few moments. I intercede to put the views that I hold. The first thing I want to say is that this matter arises because, as  Senator Cant  demonstrated so ably, there was a question as to what standing order 64 meant. There was doubt whether it meant what it was intended to mean - whether it was a vehicle by which a senator is able to raise an issue as a matter of urgency. In the way in which the standing order was drafted, there was a question of interpretation. Did it mean that the Senate had to debate the matter of urgency the next day if the motion were carried the previous day? 
The recommendation referred to by  Senator Wright  preserves the intention of the standing order as it was created, as it has existed and as it was copied from the Mother of Parliaments. It is for the purpose of enabling a matter of urgency to be raised. It is not for the purpose of enabling a definite decision to be taken. It stems from the Standing Orders of other parliaments. Those Standing Orders stated that the matter had to be of urgency, that it had to be of special interest and that it had to be in relation to a member's constituency. The concept was that, if a member of Parliament wanted to raise some matter of great urgency within his responsibility, he could do so. This has been written into our Standing Orders to protect the rights of individual senators. In discussing this standing order we are in a sense dealing with an issue involving the rights and privileges of a senator. I ask honourable senators to bear in mind that  Senator Murphy  is suggesting in effect that standing order 64 should embrace a completely new concept. He is saying that we should have a provision which will enable any honourable senator without notice to use standing order 64 for the purpose of bringing a matter before the Senate for debate and decision. That is not the purpose of the standing order. 
The Standing Orders as a whole are framed to ensure the responsibility of the Government in leading and governing; they provide that the Government shall have certain rights and privileges. The Standing Orders are written in such a way that, running parallel with those rights and privileges, an individual senator has a right to bring before the Senate a matter that he considers to be of importance. A senator has this right not only under standing order 64 but also under other parts of the Standing Orders which enable him to raise issues in the debate on the adjournment motion. 
If the honourable senator will allow me to develop my argument, he may then make his speech. If he thinks what I am saying is wrong he mav take the call and say so, but I ask him to allow me to develop my own argument. It is important that honourable senators should understand what I am saying. I may be wrong and  Senator Cant  may be right, but he should first let me have a go. The Standing Orders provide other rights for an individual senator. There is provision that on the first reading of a money Bill a senator may speak on any subject from Australian Antarctica to the next world, if he thinks it is important. That is his right and the Standing Orders have been drafted to provide for that. That provision entitles him to speak at some length. Equally, as I have said, there is a right for an individual senator to speak on the motion for the adjournment. This is another vehicle written into the Standing Orders so that a senator shall have the right to raise an issue. 
The great danger of what  Senator Murphy  is suggesting is that by altering the standing order we will bring in a different concept and provide for an entirely different situation. The right to raise matters of urgency has been a great privilege. I would be the first to concede that the provision was badly worded, and  Senator Murphy  concedes that we have made the intention of the standing order clearer. My aim is to preserve that intention; otherwise we will destroy something in our parliamentary practice which provides a very important privilege. 
To come to the second point, if standing order 64 is amended as proposed by  Senator Murphy  we might just as well forget about the provision which requires notice of a motion. In that situation who would bother to give notice? The concept of giving notice of a motion for the next day of sitting was deliberately written into the Standing Orders so that matters of great national importance could not be brought on without some warning. A matter of which notice has been given has priority of debate on the next day. Why bother about having that procedure if, under a new standing order 64 as proposed by  Senator Murphy,  a matter may be brought on as one of urgency, without warning or any notice being given, and a decision reached? It is important to remember that standing order 64 as proposed by  Senator Wright  - the meaning is clear - is a device put into the Standing Orders to give privileges to individual senators rather than to the 
Executive or senators raising matters on behalf of the Government. This privilege has been put into the Standing Orders to enable honourable senators to speak on matters which they consider to be of importance, in the same way as they may raise matters during the adjournment debate or during the debate on the first reading of a money Bill. It would be disastrous for the future existence of standing order 64 if the provision were so emasculated as to make it mean something different and to enable a senator to dispense with the necessity to give notice and to bring on a matter quickly and have a decision reached in that way. For that reason I believe that we should adopt the recommendation proposed, by  Senator Wright. 
by leave -  Mr President,  to help me in my various other activities may 1 move to the placing of business and deal with something under that heading before you deal with the discovery of formal business? There is a motion to disallow an ordinance which has to be dealt with. That will come on almost immediately. After we have disposed of this matter I wish to move that intervening business be postponed until after consideration of General Business. Order of the Day No. 19. That will be some time tonight, presumably. 

 Senator Byrne -  I am a little at a loss regarding the statement on the wool industry just read by the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman).  ls no further action to be taken on that paper? Is not the debate to be adjourned? 
(9.19) - Let me very quickly give the Senate the historical background to this motion which appears at page 31.25 of today's notice paper. On 4th May I put down a ministerial statement on behalf of the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon).  The statement was headed 'Appointment of Assistant Ministers'. In the statement I informed the Senate that it was the intention of the Prime Minister to appoint Assistant Ministers. At the conclusion of my remarks a very brief debate ensued. The extent of it was a motion by  Senator O'Byrne  'That the Senate take note of the statement', and his remark in these terms: 
I seek leave to make my remarks at a later date. 
However, there was a cognate debate on another matter related to the appointment of an additional Minister and something on the subject of the appointment of Assistant Ministers was said during that debate. My reason for bringing this matter forward tonight is that a statement was made last Thursday by the Prime Minister to the 

 Appointment of effect that Assistant Ministers were to be appointed. A number of members of the other place were named and  Senator Marriott  also was named as a person to be appointed as an Assistant Minister. On Friday in the other place, while we were not sitting, a debate ensued as to the wisdom or validity of appointing Assistant Ministers or attempting to do so while items remain on the business paper. I expressed the view, in which the Government concurred, that whilst the matter was disposed of in the other place on Friday, the appointment of a senator as an Assistant Minister should stand over so that I could raise the matter in this place today, which is the first available opportunity, with a view to disposing of it so that the appointment of a senator as an Assistant Minister could go ahead. 
That is the background. It is relatively simple and I state it merely so that there will be an understanding of why the matter has been raised tonight. I propose to refer now to the matter of substance relating to the appointment of a senator as an Assistant Minister. I inform the Senate that I sought from the Prime Minister the appointment of an Assistant Minister in the Senate, for reasons which T shall now state. It is worth recording that in the Senate we have 5 Ministers in a Ministry of 27 and that one of those Ministers - myself - in addition to being the Leader of the Government in the Senate is a Cabinet Minister. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI think it is, and but for the co-operation that I receive on all sides I do not think I would be able to cope with it. The truth of the matter is that in a Ministry of 27 there are 5 Ministers in the Senate, whereas if we go back to the time when there was a Ministry of only 19 there were 5 Ministers in the Senate, 2 of them being in the Cabinet. 
There might have been fewer. Since that time the tempo of government in Australia has increased. As Australia has grown up, as we have taken a more important role in the scheme of things throughout the world, 

 Assistant Ministers 277 as Australia has become more sophisticated and more developed, as ours has become a country in which we have expanded in all the disciplines, the sheer pressure and weight of work has become much greater than ever before. Those honourable senators who have been here a long time know that the demands made on their time as senators are much greater than they were 10 or even 5 years ago. If we consider various officers of the Senate such as the Leader of the Opposition or the Leader of the Democratic Labor Party even honourable senators opposite would agree that it is not arguable but is demonstrable that the demands on them are far greater than ever before. If one accepts that the demand applies equally to those who sit to the right of the chair one must accept that the Leader of the Government in the Senate and the Ministers who sit behind him have a tremendous additional volume of work. Quite frankly, I have no inhibitions about seeking the appointment of an Assistant Minister in the Senate. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI am sure that he will; he comes from Tasmania where there is a sturdy and rugged race. I am sure that he will do a good job. I do not want to bring personalities into this, but I make the point that the Assistant Minister will give tremendous aid, not only to me as Leader of the Government in the Senate but also to everybody else in the Senate. There is a whole number of ways in which he will be able to assist me. It so happens that I am the Minister for Health and that I have taken over a new and heavy responsibility. 
I feel fairly healthy. The question is whether  Senator Marriott  will be healthy after assisting me for a while. The preliminary step in the appointment of an Assistant Minister is to have him sworn as an Executive Councillor. That responsibility does not come directly within the parliamentary context and it is not a matter over which Parliament has any direct control. But after that step the next move is to induct him into the role of Assistant Minister. Because I want to get on with 24 August 1971 this I say merely that to have an Assistant Minister in the Senate will be to the advantage of us all. It will help us all to be more efficient and competent in disposing of the work that we have to do. I think there is an unanswerable case for assistance in the Cabinet and in the Ministry generally. 
Yes, but I do not want to be precise on this subject at the moment. We need first to have him appointed as an Executive Councillor. Then, after the Senate has disposed of the motion 'That the Senate take note of the statement', I can inform the Prime Minister of the Senate's decision on the matter and we can move into the next step. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONOn that subject let me refer quickly to the Department of Health. I have been told that the order of correspondence directed to the Minister for Health, as distinct from the Department of Health, runs to 5,000 or 6,000 communications a year. I am oldfashioned enough to believe that there is good reason to respond to that correspondence. If there is a need for someone to write to me, there is a need to respond. In some cases an inquiry will need to be processed before an answer can be given, whereas on other occasions a stereotyped answer will suffice. There is a huge volume of work in the Department on that score alone. Even the most stern critic would agree with that.  Senator Georges  should not look at me like that. 

Some day  Senator Georges  might progress to another role and realise the major responsibility carried by a Minister. The matter is a fairly serious one. I think it would be fair comment to say that even my sternest critic opposite and even the most vociferous of my critics would recognise that the task of Leader of the Government in the Senate is a very important one. It requires a great deal of cooperation and hard work. It would not be pos sible for me to perform that task if I did not get that co-operation from leaders. If we have an Assistant Minister, I believe that the work of the Senate and the process of government in the Senate will be carried out far more expeditiously than it is at present. I hope that tonight we will dispose of this motion to take note of the paper so that I can report to the Prime Minister and the Government in order that the next step in the matter may be taken. 
(11.57) - I intercede only to say that I was the person who had a discussion about a date to try to meet the situation between the mover of the motion and the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Greenwood),  the mover of the amendment. I must confess that the point is made that at this time we do not know the precise starting date of the autumn session. That is the AttorneyGeneral's problem. We may well be back in February. If we do not want to have a vote on this issue I suggest that we leave it until the March period when we are certain of no embarrassment in relation to the commencing date of the next session. 
Pursuant to section 18 of the National Debt Sinking Fund Act 1966-67, I present the 48th annual report of the operations of the National Debt Commission for the year ended 30th June 1971. 
(12.22) - As 1 understand the position, the points at isue are being debated on the motion for the suspension of the Standing Orders rather than on the substantive motion. The view I hold is that if  Senator Byrne  wishes to move to rearrange General Business that is his inalineable right. Every senator has that right. The will of the Senate will prevail. If the substantive motion is carried, there will be some rearrangement of business. The inclination of senators on this side is that we will not oppose the substantive motion. 
(2.55) - Technically I am speaking to the amendment to enable me to comment on this matter. I hope that what I say will bring the matter to issues. It surprises and disappoints me to find that although almost every  speaker  in this debate has recognised that in the Senate we suffer under a tremendous disadvantage because we have only 5 Ministers in a Ministry of 27, only one of those 5 Ministers - myself - being a Cabinet Minister, there is some opposition to the appointment of Assistant Ministers. On all sides honourable senators have recognised that there is an imbalance, and everyone acknowedges that this situation makes for difficulty and puts tremendous pressure on Ministers and extraordinary pressure on me. Yet for some extraordinary reason, which I find hard to comprehend - I do not wish to import motives into anybody's remarks - there is a reluctance to agree to the appointment of Assistant Ministers. 
The legal argument raised by  Senator Murphy  has been fairly well dealt with. That matter was covered first by statements in another place by leaders of the Australian Labor Party who said they did not want to canvass that aspect. Those remarks appear in Hansard for everybody to see. The legal aspect has arisen in questions in this place. I assure the Senate that the aspect of profit under the Crown has been properly examined by the law officers of the Attorney-General's Department and they are satisfied that there is no risk to an incumbent Assistant Minister. Therefore it seems to me that the amendment proposed by  Senator Murphy  does not have validity. I propose to make just one reference to the question of an Assistant Minister making statements of policy, a matter which I believe was raised by  Senator Willesee.  No Assistant Minister will make statements of policy. Ministers in this place - this applies even to me as Leader of the Government and a very senior member of the Cabinet - are very cautious about making statements of policy on matters outside their own portfolios. In any event, no Assistant Minister will be making statements of policy. 

That is right. It seemed to me that that was not a very strong argument on which to base the case. On the question of emoluments, reimbursements and salaries, the Assistant Ministers will receive no additional payment in that position. They will be reimbursed for travelling expenses, but we are all reimbursed for these costs - even the back benchers. Their reimbursement will be on a scale consistent with the work that they are doing. It is proper to point out that some of the Assistant Ministers who already have been appointed in the other place will be financially in a worse position because of their appointment as Assistant Minister. I cite the case of  Mr Dobie  who, as I understand it, is retiring from the position of  Chairman  of the Public Accounts Committee, a position which attracts quite substantial fees. Equally, I understand that if  Senator Marriott  is appointed as an Assistant Minister, in which position I will require a great deal of him, he will not be in a position to take the chairmanship of Senate committees, which position also attracts fees. So from a financial point of view the Assistant Ministers will be worse off. 
This was in my view a rather hurtful argument when referring to men who, because of their dedication to the parliamentary institution, dedication to the Party which they serve and dedication to a job of work associated with the management of Australia, feel that it is a great honour to be sought for appointment as Assistant Ministers, in many cases at financial disadvantage. Yet we have heard raised the question whether they will receive fees. I shall not respond to the points raised by  Senator Turnbull. 
I want an Assistant Minister in the Senate. As I said at the outset, I believe that an Assistant Minister in the Senate will assist not only the Minister to whom he is allocated but also the system, the parliamentary institution and the Senate. He will be able to assist in all sorts of things and provide a better service to senators and their constituents. For that reason I oppose the amendment. I hope that this matter will be disposed of, if necessary by vote, so that we can get on with the job. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be added  (Senator Murphy's amendment)  be so added. 
I present the following paper: 
Taxation- Taxation Statistics 1969-70, dated 1st September 1971, supplement to the Fortyninth Report of the Commissioner of Taxation. 
It is anticipated that after we conclude this 2 weeks cycle and the week break the other place will revert to the 3 week sitting with the1 week break. At the appropriate time,I shall be moving in the Senate that we should follow that procedure of sitting for 3 days a week - that is, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday - in the 3 week cycle to stay reasonably close to the sitting times of the other place. I want to make it clear that the probabilities are that the sittings for this Budget session will take the other place into December. Therefore it could be predicated that we in this place, our workload being largely influenced by what happens in the other place, will also go into the December period. This will necessitate some attempt at rearranging the programme of the Senate. At the appropriate time I will be having discussions with the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  and the Leader of the Australian Democratic Labor Party  (Senator Gair)  for the purpose of seeing whether we can work out a loosely knit timetable which will enable us to stay reasonably close to the other place. lt will be a matter of trying to time ourselves to the various legislative programmes. At this time I merely project this arrangement to create the understanding that as Leader of the Government in the Senate I shall be seeking co-operation through the various leaders to prepare a timetable which will enable us to stay in our workload reasonably close to the other place. This will impose some disciplines on us all, and not least on me as Leader of the Government in the Senate. I project this arrangement at this time because we need to have a timetable. 
It is also my understanding - I am grateful to  Senator Murphy  for reminding me of this matter - that it is proposed in the other place that they will conclude the second reading debate on the Budget by Thursday week. With the co-operation of honourable senators J would want to conclude our taking note of the papers - the procedure we adopt - also by 6 o'clock on Thursday week. After 6 o'clock on a Thursday evening we deal with general business. If this happened we could come back after the next break and move into the Estimates Committees stage. Again, this would be done for the purpose of trying to keep us reasonably close to the work load in the other place. This is not to say that this is to be done to the exclusion of some urgent legislation which the Government may wish to interpose during the next fortnight. I hope that we will be able to dispose of taking note of the papers by Thursday week at 6 o'clock. Equally, I hope that on each Wednesday during the next 2 weeks we will give as much opportunity as we can to new honourable senators who may wish to make their maiden speech on the day we broadcast. 
Pursuant to section 9 of the Medical Research Endowment Act 1937, I present the annual report on work done under the Act during the year ended 31st December 1970. 
I wish to inform the Senate that  Senator Wright  left Australia on Friday last to lead the Australian delegation to the Commonwealth Parliamentary Conference in Kuala Lumpur.  Senator Wright  is expected to return to Australia on 24th September. During his absence, the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  is Acting Minister for Works. I will represent  Senator Wright  in regard to his portfolio and also the portfolios he represents in this chamber. 
For the information of honourable senators I present the annual report of the Director-General of Health on the activities of the Commonwealth Department of Health for the year ended 30th June 1971. 
On 30th September 1970  Senator Byrne  asked during question time whether the Treasury would consider the compilation of a handbook for the information and guidance of honourable senators on the operation of the various funds and the mode of presentation of the figures in the financial papers. I now inform honourable senators that officers of the Treasury have prepared a document on these lines entitled 'Parliamentary Handbook on 
Commonwealth Financial Affairs' and that I have arranged for this to be distributed to all honourable senators. 
 by leave - The statement 1 am about to make has been distributed in the last few minutes. My purpose in this statement is to correct misleading statements in news reports suggesting that recommendations on smoking and health have been suppressed by the Government. Specifically it has been alleged that the Commonwealth Director-General of Health,  Sir William  Refshauge, has reported to the Government recommendations of the World Health Organisation on smoking and health and that he and his Department have been 'muzzled' on this matter. 
This is nonsensical. The recommendations of the World Health Organisation on smoking and health have been widely published, and so too have been the recommendations of Australia's own National Health and Medical Research Council.  Sir William  Refshauge did attend the 24th Assembly of the World Health Assembly in Geneva in May of this year and was, incidentally, elected  President  of the Assembly. The World Health Assembly did discuss the matter of smoking and health. It did endorse the recommendations of a report on the subject made by the DirectorGeneral of WHO,  Dr Candau.  This report, which I emphasise was prepared by  Dr Candau,  in his capacity of DirectorGeneral of WHO, was published, as was the fact that the World Health Assembly had endorsed its recommendations.  Sir William  Refshauge did, as a matter of routine on his return to Australia, report to the then Minister on the World Health Assembly. But it is ridiculous for anybody to claim that there was some sort of suppression by the Government of  Sir William's  report on the WHO recommendations when these had already been published to the world in a WHO Press release dated 19th May 1971. 
I would also emphasise that there is no secrecy about recommendations on smoking and health made by the National Health and Medical Research Council, whose role is to advise the Commonwealth and State governments on public health matters.  Sir William  Refshauge is  Chairman  of that Council and its recommendations are published to all who may be interested in them. In fact if honourable senators care to look at pages 116 and 117 of the annual report of the DirectorGeneral of Health tabled here today a few moments ago they will see recorded there the views of the NHMRC on smoking and health. 
To put this whole matter in perspective it should be understood that various recommendations on smoking and health have been made from time to time by both the World Health Organisation and the National Health and Medical Research Council. The recommendations by both of these advisory bodies are widely published and are generally in accord. As the  President  of the 24th World Health Assembly and as the  Chairman  since 1960 of the National Health and Medical Research Council,  Sir William  Refshauge is associated with those recommendations.  Sir William  is, of course, also the permanent head of the Commonwealth Department of Health and, as is the situation with all senior public servants who advise Ministers, he acts in that capacity as a confidential adviser. 
I trust honourable senators will understand from what I have said the position of the Commonwealth Director-General of Health and that there has been no suppression by the Government of recommendations by public health advisory bodies. With the permission of the Senate I would now table the report of the DirectorGeneral of the World Health Organisation on the consequences of smoking, a WHO Press release reporting the resolutions of the 24th World Health Assembly on the matter of smoking and the report of the 68th Session of the National Health and Medical Research Council together with extracts of NHMRC recommendations. 
by leave - I wish to inform the Senate of  thefollowingministerialarrangements:mr 
Holten, in addition to his duties as Minister for Repatriation, will assist the Minister for Trade and Industry. The Prime Minister has also made the following appointments of Assistant Ministers: The Prime Minister will be assisted by  Mr Dobie;  the Minister for Health and Leader of the Government in the Senate will be assisted by  Senator Marriott;  the PostmasterGeneral will be assisted by  Mr Robinson;  the Minister for Labour and National Service will be assisted by  Mr Street;  the Minister for Civil Aviation will be assisted by  Mr McLeay;  and the Minister for Primary Industry will be assisted by  Mr King  on his return from overseas after he has been sworn as a member of the Executive Council. 

I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That the particulars of proposed expenditure for the service of the year ending 30th June 1972 and the particulars of proposed ' provision for certain expenditure in respect of the year ending 30th June 1972 be referred herewith to Estimates Committees A, B, C, D and E for examination and report; 
That the Committees deal with the departmental estimates as follows: 
Estimates Committee A - Department of Health, Parliament, Department, of the Prime Minister and Cabinet, Department of Defence, Department of the Treasury. 
I shall be the Minister who responds. 
Estimates Committee B- Department of Works, Department of Foreign Affairs, Department of Education and Science, Department of Labour and National Ser vice, Department of External Territories, Department of Housing. 

 Senator Wright will be the Minister who responds. 
Estimates Committee C - Department of Civil Aviation, Department of Trade and Industry, Department of National Development, Department of Shipping and Transport, Department of Customs and Excise, Department of the Interior, and Tourist Activities. 

 Senator Cotton will be the Minister who responds. 
Estimates Committee D - Department of Air, Department of Primary Industry, Department of the Army, Department of the Navy, Department of Supply, and Department of Repatriation. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI am giving them as they are.  Senator Drake-Brock  man will be the Minister who responds in relation to Committee D. The terms of my motion will continue as follows: 
Estimates Committee E - Attorney-General's Department, Postmaster-General's Department, Department of Immigration, Department of Social Services, Department of the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts. 

 Senator Greenwood will be the Minister who responds. 
That the Committees report to the Senate on or before 4th November 1971. 
A rearrangement in Ministers has been necessary because  Senator Dame  Annabelle 
Rankin is not now with us. I am giving notice that tomorrow I will move that as a formal motion. 

I am putting it down now so that the confusion can be sorted out. 
(10.39)  - The Government is not prepared to accept the amendment moved by  Senator Little  and to which  Senator Byrne  has spoken. It is true that the amendment is couched in terms which merely add to the motion that the Senate take note of the Budget papers. It states  7  reasons for the concern of  Senator Little  and the Party to which he belongs. I think it is fair comment, as  Senator Byrne  has said, that most of the matters raised in the amendment have been debated very vigorously in the Budget debate. In the same spirit as that in which he expressed his views in favour of the amendment, while not developing an argument for it I respond by saying that the points which have been raised have been debated and I do not propose to canvass them further. The Budget is calculated to preserve the policy of full employment and the prosperity of the Australian community. As I indicated at question time today and yesterday, it contains a flexibility to enable us to meet any changing conditions which may emerge. 
It is true that there are problems in the rural sector of the economy. The Budget has not walked away from those problems. They are associated with world prices. We have taken steps in an attempt to meet the situation. I believe that the measures that have been and are being proposed are adequate. If they are not adequate, at least they are directed towards trying to arrest the situation. I make it perfectly clear that one does not introduce a Budget, press a button and expect that its results will be in evidence during the currency of the debate. The Budget is a fiscal matter. It contains the concept of a yearly appreciation of trends. The Budget not only does that in terms of the economy but also it makes special concessions in relation to pensions and social service matters of that nature. In the spirit in which the amendment was moved and without wanting to embark on a further debate, I close my comments by saying that we do not support the amendment. I take the opportunity to express my congratulations to those senators on both sides who made their maiden speeches during the Budget debate. I am sure that they will make valuable contributions to debates as the session proceeds. As the Leader of the Government, I congratulate them on their maiden speeches. 
(8.0)  -  When the debate was adjourned on the report of the Standing Orders Committee we had agreed to accept amendment (2) contained in paragraph 9 of the report. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONYes, a vote was taken and an assurance was given by  Senator Wright,  who was leading for the Government, that notwithstanding the vote that had been taken there was an obligation on the Committee to have another look at the matter on which the vote was taken. I have said that only to give honourable senators some background information in relation to this matter. I would suggest that we should proceed with the report tonight in an endeavour to complete it and have the proposals in the report that are agreed to by honourable senators incorporated in the Standing Orders. That would not prejudice in any way the obligation on the Standing Orders Committee to have another look at standing order 64. I believe that completion of consideration of the balance of the report may assist the Standing Orders Committee in its subsequent consideration of standing order 64. I hope all honourable senators approve the way in which I have suggested the balance of the report should be dealt with. 
(8.4) - I think I should for the benefit of honourable senators read paragraph 10. It is fairly brief and to the point. It reads: 
It is considered that the time limits for speeches - 
This is in the context of standing order 64-  and for the whole discussion, could be reduced without prejudicing the effectiveness of urgency motions. 
It should be remembered that standing order 64 relates to urgency motions. Paragraph 10 continues: 
The recommended amendments are: 
Amendment (3) - Leave out 'the mover and the Minister first speaking shall not exceed 30 minutes each,', insert 'the mover and the senator next speaking shall not exceed 20 minutes each,'. 
Amendment (4) - Leave out 'and any other senator or the mover in reply shall not exceed IS minutes,', insert 'and any other senator or the mover in reply shall not exceed 10 minutes,'. 
Amendment (5) - Leave out 'Provided that the whole discussion on the subject shall not exceed 3 hours', insert 'Provided that the whole discussion on the subject shall not exceed 2 hours'. 
In summary, at the present time standing order 64 provides for a 3-hour debate In which the first and second speakers shall be allowed 30 minutes each and the subsequent speakers and the mover in reply shall have 20 minutes in which to speak. The proposal is that the mover and the  speaker  next following him should be allowed 20 minutes in which to speak and all subsequent speakers 10 minutes. It is also proposed that the debate shall be for only 2 hours duration. It is a matter for us to determine whether we agree with the proposal. All I want to say is as the business of the parliamentary institution is developing and the demands on the Parliament are increasing it would seem that  a  3-hour slot - for the want of a better expression - is perhaps a little too long for a debate on an urgency motion. 
The Standing Orders Committee was not unanimous in its views about this matter. I think reservations were expressed by at least one member of the Committee. I am not certain who it was. It might have been  Senator Cavanagh.  But the consensus of the Standing Orders Committee was that the time allowed for this sort of debate should be reduced to 2 hours, that 20 minutes should be allowed to the first and second speakers in the debate and that 10 minutes should be allowed to the other speakers. Therefore, I move: 
That the recommendations contained in paragraph 10 of the report of the Standing Orders Committee be agreed to. 

 Senator MURPHY (New South Wales)Leader of the Opposition) (8.7) - There has been some discussion of the report of the Standing Orders Committee in the chamber and round the lobbies since it was tabled. I think it is the general view that the proposal in regard to reducing the time limit of certain debates from 3 hours to 2 hours is sensible and that the proposal in regard to reducing the speaking time of the mover of the motion from 30 minutes to 20 minutes is sensible but that the time limit of 15 minutes for the other speakers should be left as it is. 
by leave - Yesterday when giving notice of  a  motion in relation to Senate Estimates Committees I listed certain departments and I used the alphabetical letters A, B, C, D and E to signify the Committees which were to examine the estimates of the respective departments. Subsequently it was drawn to my attention that in doing so I rather confused the issue, because some senators who were on Estimates Committee C last year expected to be members of Estimates Committee C this year but last year's Estimates Committee C became this year's Estimates Committee D or something of that kind. In the spirit of sweet reasonableness I would like to amend my motion. Estimates Committee A will remain as Estimates Committee A. Estimates Committee B, before which  Senator Wright  has ministerial responsibility, is to become Estimates Committee C. The third one is D; the fourth one, which includes the Department of Air and the Department of Primary Industry, becomes E; and the final one which is E becomes B. I think that gets us back to where everybody understands where he is going. I will move that as a formal motion. 
I could put that on if it would make you happy. I move: 
That the Particulars of Proposed Expenditure for the Service of the Year Ending 30 June 1972 and the Particulars of Proposed Provision for Certain Expenditure in respect of the Year Ending 30 June 1972 be referred herewith to Estimates Committees A, B, C, D and E for examination and report. 
That the Committees deal with the departmental estimates as follows: 
Estimates Committee A - 
Department of Health 
Parliament 
Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet 
Department of Defence 
Department of the Treasury 
Estimates Committee B - 
Attorney-General's Department 
Postmaster-General's Department 
Department of Immigration 
Department of Social Services 
Department of the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts 
Estimates Committee C - 
Department of Works 
Department of Foreign Affairs 
Department of Education and Science 
Department of Labour and National Service 
Department of External Territories 
Department of Housing 
Estimates Committee D - 
Department of Civil Aviation 
Department of Trade and Industry 
Department of National Development 
Department of Shipping and Transport 
Department of Customs and Excise 
Department of the Interior 
Tourist Activities 
Estimates Committee E - 
Department of Air 
Department of Primary Industry 
Department of the Army 
Repatriation Department 
Department of the Navy 
Department of Supply 
That the Committees report to the Senate on or before 4 November 1971 unless otherwise ordered. 
by leave - On behalf of the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  I inform the Senate that the Government has decided that there should be an inquiry into parliamentary salaries and allowances. Parliamentary salaries and allowances were last adjusted in December 1968. It will be generally accepted that there should be periodic reviews of parliamentary salaries and allowances just as there are in other sectors of the community. It has been represented to me from both sides of the House that there should be a review at this time. In the recent history of this matter, there have been 3 inquiries held - in 1952, in 1955 and in 1959. Since then, in 1964 and in 1968 the salary adjustments were made by decision of the Parliament itself. 
The Government has decided that in this instance it should revert to the inquiry method. We propose that one of the terms of reference will be an examination and report upon methods by which parliamentary salaries and allowances may be determined in future. The Government has decided to ask  Mr Juctice  Kerr to undertake this task. He has accepted.  Mr Justice  Kerr was appointed a judge of the Commonwealth industrial court in 1966. As a senior counsel at the Bar he had previously had an extensive practice in industrial matters.  Mr Justice  Kerr is at present  Chairman  of a 5-man committee that the Government has appointed to inquire into pay and other conditions of service of members of the armed forces. He has informed me that the committee has a planned programme for carrying out the remainder of its inquiry and for the submission of its further report. I have the Judge's firm assurance that the examination of parliamentary salaries he has now been asked to undertake will in no way delay the completion of the work of the armed forces pay committee. That work will proceed and will be carried to finality as originally planned. 
The terms of reference of the inquiry will be: 
To examine and report upon the salaries and allowances of senators and members of the House of Representatives, and those paid to Ministers and senators and members who are office bearers of the Parliament. 
If it be reported that it is necessary or desirable to alter such salaries and allowances or any of them, then to recommend the nature and extent of the alterations that should be made. 
To examine and report upon methods by which such salaries and allowances may be determined in future. 
(12.7) - I move: 
Thai the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to increase existing pensions payable under the Superannuation Act in accordance with the decision announced in the Budget. Honourable senators will be aware that the Superannuation fund is a contributory pension scheme for the Commonwealth's own employees. The fund, which is built up from the contributions of the employees, meets a part of each pension payment and the Commonwealth as the employer provides the balance from Consolidated Revenue. In the case of pensions paid to former employees of Commonwealth authorities outside the Budget each authority meets the employer's share from its own resources. The last adjustment of pensions payable under the Superannuation Act was made in 1967. In the intervening period there have been significant changes in the cost of living which in particular have affected adversely the purchasing power of those pensions in existence at the time of the last increase. lt is proposed once again to determine the increases in pensions by what has become known as the notional salary method. Under this method of adjustment, the employer's share of each pension in existence at 30th June 1971 will be increased to the amount that it would have been had the pensioner retired on that date, taking into account changes since his retirement in the salary he then received. As on previous occasions the proportionate reduction principle will apply to the increases received by those pensioners who, for one reason or another, retired on pensions that were less than their full entitlement. 
Provision has been made in the Bill to increase, as appropriate, a pension that became payable, on or before 30th June 1971, to a person who elected to have the preservation provisions of the Superannuation Act 1971 apply to him and who took his preservation benefit in the form of a deferred pension. As on previous occasions, a widow will receive the appropriate proportion, five-eighths or one-half, of the increase that her husband would have received had he been alive and in receipt of a pension on 30th June 1971. Certain orphans will also receive increased pensions. Nevertheless, the position of orphans and children will be given special consideration when the results of the quinquennial investigations of the superannuation and defence forces retirement benefits funds become available during the next twelve months. 
The increases resulting from adoption of the notional salary method will for many pensioners be substantial, particularly for those longer standing pensioners who, perhaps at some sacrifice, maintained fully their contributions to the Superannuation fund until their retirement. The Government now has serious reservations about the results produced by applying the notional salary method but decided to adopt it again as pensioners, and others on their behalf had indicated on many occasions that they favoured this method and had every expectation that it would again apply. The method is however complex in its operation and close examination has shown that it generates anomalies and inequities between pensioners. The Government proposes, therefore, to examine simpler methods of adjustment which would produce more equitable results with a view to future application on a regular basis. I have arranged for circulation to honourable senators of an explanatory memorandum on the effects of the Bill on pension entitlements. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Poke)  adjourned. 
(12.10) - I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This bill, which is a companion measure to the Superannuation (Pension Increases) Bill that 1 have just introduced, gives effect to the Government's proposals to provide increases in certain defence forces retirement pensions. 
As with pensions paid from the Superannuation Fund, pensions payable under the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act were last increased in 1967 when the notional salary method of adjustment was used. The bill provides for the same method of adjustment to be used on this occasion. The pensions of persons who retired on their full pension entitlement will therefore be increased by five-sevenths of the difference between the actual pension and the pension they would have received had retirement occurred on 30th 
June 1971. Those who retired on less than their full entitlement or who, after retirement, commuted part of their pension for a lump sum will receive an appropriate proportion of this increase. 
Deferred pensions that may have become payable before 30th June 1971 in accordance with the preservation provisions of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act 1971 will be adjusted as appropriate. Increases will also be payable to widows and to certain orphan pensioners. The Bill provides for increases in the pensions payable to 2 other small groups of pensioners. The first group comprises invalidity pensioners who at the time of their retirement were under 18 years of age and were not able to contribute to the DFRB Fund. The second group consists of pensioners who receive pension based on the entitlement for which they were contributing under the Superannuation Act in 1948, immediately prior to their being transferred to the DFRB Fund. Examples of increases provided by the Bill are set out in the explanatory memorandum being circulated to honourable senators. 
As I have already said when introducing the Superannuation (Pensions Increases) Bill, the Government will be examining simpler methods of adjustment which would produce more equitable results than the notional salary method of adjustment adopted in this Bill, with a view to future application on a regular basis. 1 commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Poke)  adjourned. 
(12.15) - I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to increase existing parliamentary and ministerial pensions payable under the Parliamentary 
Retiring Allowances Act in accordance with principles similar to those incorporated in the 2 Bills already introduced into the Senate providing for increases in existing superannuation and defence forces retirement benefits pensions. The increases provided by the Bill will result in the consolidated revenue component of existing pensions being raised to the level that prevailed for a member retiring on 30th June 1971. But, because the rates ofpension applying to members and office-holders currently contributing to the parliamentary and ministerial retiring allowances funds have remained unchanged since1st December 1968, the effect of the Bill is to increase only those pensions in relation to persons who qualified prior to that date. 
The Bill also increases by one-half the Prime Ministerial pensions payable to the widows of 2 former Prime Ministers who died before the commencement of the Parliamentary Retiring Allowances Act in 1948. These rates of pension have remained unchanged since 1959. Information regarding the new rates of pension provided by the Bill is contained in the explanatory memorandum being distributed to honourable senators. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Poke)  adjourned. 
by leave - With the concurrence of honourable senators, I incorporate in Hansard a statement on the rural reconstruction employment training scheme made in the House of Representatives by the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch). 
The Aural Reconstruction Employment Training Scheme is an integral element of the Government's policy for the reconstruction of rural industries. The intention of the Scheme is to assist farmers whom I shall describe later to transfer to suitable alternative employment away from their farms. This explains the reference to the Scheme by my colleague the Treasurer in his Budget Speech as applying to 'farmers not in a position to achieve commercial viability'. The Scheme is to be available to farmers affected in the whole range of agricultural and pastoral production industries. 
The type of assistance that is available is the opportunity to undertake full-time or part-time training by entering formal courses in technical education, or through training by job experience in subsidised employment by approved employers. The applicant for training will be free to choose the vocational training he wants provided it can lead to immediate employment on completion. Thus the range of vocations covered by the Scheme is wide, including technical, clerical and commercial fields. 
As t shall explain later, fees and other expenses associated with full-time courses will be paid and persons in full-time courses will receive a training allowance according to their ongoing income. Persons who enter into employment for training purposes will be paid the full award wage part of which will be reimbursed to the employer by the Government 
tn developing the Scheme my Department has been in close consultation with the Department of Primary Industry. The States were also consulted during its development and have notified their concurrence. The Scheme will be administered by my Department. 
I must emphasise the purpose of the training. It is to help farmers to prepare themselves for employment other than farming. The training they choose must be oriented to employment away from farming. Clearly the Scheme is not a solution to all the problems of farmers whose properties are not economically viable, but it can assist people who decide to seek an alternative means of livelihood. This will not be an easy decision for them to make. Some farmers, for example, may have to resolve concurrently or beforehand very complex issues associated with physically relocating themselves and their families if there is to be an assurance of employment in the occupations for which training is sought. In this regard it is realistic to keep in mind the characteristic and understandable reluctance of the farmer to leave the land. 
As honourable members will recall, the Commonwealth/State rural reconstruction programmes provide for financial assistance for debt reconstruction or farm build up to farmers who, with that assistance, can become commercially, that is, economically, viable. Decisions on the economic viability of applicants for debt reconstruction assistance devolve on the appropriate authority in each State administering the rural reconstruction programmes. 
Farmers eligible to apply for assistance under this Employment Training Scheme are those without prospects of long-term economic viability, that is, those who are refused or who are likely to be refused debt reconstruction assistance, and those whose properties are acquired under the farm build-up provisions of the State Grants (Rural Reconstruction) Act or the Marginal Dairy Farms Agreements Act. In all cases the farmers must have been in personal working occupation of their farms. 
The Scheme will also assist members of the family of an eligible farmer who have been working full-time on farming other Ulan domestic responsibilities, and who have been primarily dependent on the income of the farm. Farm workers leaving the industry will also be eligible for training if they have been employed by eligible farmers for an uninterrupted period of at least one year immediately prior to their departure. 
The types of training to be provided and the principles for financial assistance are consistent with those adopted for the Employment Training Scheme for Persons Displaced by Technological Change. Honourable members will, therefore, note the similarities in the two Schemes as regards the nature of the training, the length of the training period for full-time courses and the amount of and eligibility for training allowances. There is a difference as regards the training period for parttime courses, 24 months as compared with 12 months, so as to permit some rural people to combine temporary employment with training while readjusting their affairs. 
Farm workers who lose their employment through the introduction of technological change on the farm where they work can 'claim training benefits under the Employment Training Scheme for Persons Displaced by Technological Change. Married and adult single women whose domestic responsibilities on the farm have restricted them from seeking job opportunities but who now desire to enter into employment can qualify for training under the Employment Training Scheme for Women Restricted from Employment by Domestic Responsibilities. 
It will be evident that the three Employment Training Schemes mentioned are complementary to one another and in combination provide training benefits to a very wide range  of  people in the rural industries. 
It bears repeating that this Employment Training Scheme has been developed in the context of rural reconstruction programmes.  It  is  not  available  to  farmers who leave the industry for reasons which are noi wholly attributable to their commercial non-viability as assessed by the appropriate State authorities or to the farm build-up provisions of the legislation referred to earlier. 
The approval of training as already indicated will have regard to employment opportunities in the particular occupations for which eligible applicants have stated a preference. Training is unlikely to be approved for occupations in which employment is very doubtful immediately on the completion of the training. 
The Scheme will aim to be as flexible as possible since the objective is to help people lc find new employment. Whilst there is no age limit, age, personal capacity, educational background, may affect training preferences which persons can realistically pursue. To ensure the necessary flexibility the provisions of the Scheme will be kept under continuous review, and change made from time to time as experience is gained from the types of employment and training that are being sought. 
The basic approach in the employment training schemes that have already been developed by the Department and that is implicit in this Scheme is to seek the best match between the individual's training preferences, the likely employment opportunities at the end of training and the available training facilities. The counselling services of my Department will be available to potential applicants for training who seek information about employment opportunities, training courses or the provisions of the Employment Training Scheme most appropriate to their circumstances. 
Principal Features of Scheme 
Eligibility  of  Applicants 
Farmers eligible for training are those who have been in personal working occupation of farms that are not economically viable to the extent that an application for debt reconstruction has been, or is likely to be, rejected by the appropriate State authority. In addition, eligibility extends to farmers who have been in personal working occupation of a property that has been or is being acquired by a purchaser who is assisted under the Government's farm build-up schemes. Both categories of farmers are described as 'eligible farmers' for the purpose of this Employment Training Scheme. 
Members of the families of eligible farmers will also qualify for training if they have been working full-time on farming, other than on domestic responsibilities, for at least the 6 months prior to their applications for training, and if they have been wholly dependent for their livelihood on the income earned by the farm. If the appropriate State authority assesses a farm as economically viable in terms of its capacity to support one farmer but not two, those obliged to leave the farm will also be eligible for training. 
IS. Farm workers who had been employed by eligible farmers for an uninterrupted period of at least 1 year immediately prior to their dismissal will also be able to apply for training assistance. 
Married women and adult single women members of the families of eligible farmers should, generally speaking, apply for training under the Employment Training Scheme for 
Women Restricted from Employment by Domestic Responsibilities. Farm workers displaced from their employment because of technological change on the farm where they worked should submit applications for training under the Employment Training Scheme for Persons Displaced by Technological Change. My Department will inform enquirers of the appropriateness of each Employment Training Scheme to their circumstances. 
Selection  for Training 
The objective of training is to enable eligible persons to enter alternative suitable employment of their choice. Some will, of course, be able to obtain employment in their chosen fields without the need for further training. The Commonwealth Employment Service will provide assistance in appropriate cases to facilitate an immediate transfer into available employment 
When an application for training is being considered, an applicant's ability to complete the proposed training, and his readiness lo take up the first training opportunity available in his preferred field, will be taken into account. The training must be such as to assure him employment which is suitable to him. The Commonwealth Employment Service, with which all applicants for training must register for employment, will assist those completing training to find employment. 
Nature of Training 
Training  is  offered in three basic forms. First, there are existing formal courses at approved technical schools or vocational training institutions, either full-time, part-time or by correspondence. Second, on-the-job training will be arranged wilh approved employers. Third, training may be arranged as a combination of on-the-job training and a formal course where such  is  available. 
Approval of Institutions and Employers as Trainers 
The reference to an approved training institution or approved employer means an institution or employer nominated by the potential trainee  as  his desired trainer The Scheme will be flexible, but institutions and employers will be approved separately for each trainee. They will not be classified as 'approved' in general. In the course of discussion with the potential trainee or as  a  result of investigating a training application, the Department might recommend to the applicant  a  change of nomination. Institutions and employers cannot gain recognition as 'approved' on their own initiative and hence will not be in a position to use the Scheme, or to obtain any payments under the Scheme, for training and costs which ordinarily would have incurred as part of their normal recruitment and training arrangements for new entrants or new staff. Approval will only be given to non-government training institutions where a suitable programme of training is not available from a government institution. 
Length of Training 
The period of training available is for 12 months full-time or 24 months part-time. Shorter periods will be approved, but longer training up to a maximum of a further 12 months will require consideration by a broadly based Advisory Committee before approval. 
Where entry to a training programme depends on additional educational qualifications, applications for the tuition necessary to acquire the pre-requisite education will be considered up to a maximum period of twelve months prior to commencement of the approved training programme. The extra tuition will be additional to the maximum period approved for the actual training. 
by leave - On behalf of the Prime Minister  (Mr Mc Mahon),  1 wish to inform the Senate that the Treasurer,  Mr Snedden,  led Australia on 17th September to attend a meeting of Commonwealth Finance Ministers in Nassau and also to attend the annual meeting of Governors of the International Monetary Fund and the International Bank of Reconstruction and Development in Washington.  Mr Snedden  is expected to return to Australia on 21st October and during his absence the Prime Minister will act as Treasurer. The Minister for Foreign Affairs,  Mr N.  H. Bowen, left Australia on 21st September to attend the twenty-sixth session of the General Assembly of the United Nations. He is expected to return to Australia on 1 5th October. During his absence the Minister for Primary Industry,  Mr Sinclair,  will act as Minister for Foreign Affairs and will represent the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  in the House of Representatives. 
Pursuant to section 22 of the Public Service Act 1922-1968, I present the annual report of the Public Service Board for the year ended 30th June 1971. 
Pursuant to section 6 of the National Fitness Act 1941, I present the annual report on national fitness activities for the year ended 31st December 1970. 
For the information of honourable senators,I present report No. 2 of the Committee of Inquiry into Services Pay (the Kerr Committee) dated July 1971, which is a supplementary report on the rates of pay for other ranks. 
I move: 
That business of the Senate, notices of motion1 to 8. be postponed until the next day of sitting. 
By way of explanation, may I add that I hope to be in a position, perhaps tomorrow, to have some examination made of the notices of motion which are standing on the Notice Paper. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
(4.21) -I  move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill with  2  other Taxation Bills I shall shortly be introducing, results from the agreement between the Commonwealth and the States, at the June Premiers' Conference, for the transfer of payroll tax  to  the States. These Bills give effect to the transfer itself, and are being introduced now with a view to their speedy passage in order to facilitate the transfer  of  the payroll tax to the States. This is necessary because of the State governments' budgetary planning. At the June meeting, the Commonwealth accepted the States' need for some greater flexibility and freedom in revenue raising. The Commonwealth also indicated that, after careful consideration, it had confirmed its previous conviction that it would not be advisable to re-open the field of personal income tax to the States. Nevertheless, it accepted the view previously expressed by the States that they needed access to a new area of growth' taxation to assist them in financing the services which they provided. In these circumstances, the Commonwealth offered, and the States accepted, the transfer of payroll tax as a useful addition to State resources for revenue raising purposes. 
The Commonwealth made it clear that the transfer of payroll tax would have to be accompanied by an off-setting reduction in the financial assistance grants payable to the States, although the extent of the reduction will, for various reasons, be less than the addition to State revenues resulting from the imposition of payroll tax. Complementary legislation is to be introduced as soon as possible, to give effect to the reduction in the amount the States would otherwise have received in the financial assistance grants for 1971-72, and I shall explain in detail at that time the precise arrangements which we have come to with the States in that respect. I should also make it clear that, while payroll tax is being transferred to the States, the Commonwealth will continue to operate the export incentive scheme so as to give exporters the same benefits, based on the existing rate of  1  per cent, as they now enjoy. Separate legislation to provide for this will also be introduced in the near future. 
I turn now to the purposes of the Payroll Tax (Termination of Commonwealth Tax) Bill. Under the agreement reached with the States, the Commonwealth will cease to impose payroll tax except in relation to the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory: All States will bring down legislation under which they will impose and collect their own payroll taxes. The date the Commonwealth will vacate the payroll tax field will coincide with the date of commencement of the legislation imposing the tax in each of the States and in the Commonwealth Territories. Provided the legislation to give effect to the agreement has been enacted by the Commonwealth Parliament and by all State parliaments in time for it to be done, it is proposed that the payroll tax will be effectively transferred as from 1st September 1971, enabling the States to receive the first of their monthly payroll tax collections in October 1971. 
The main purpose of this Bill is to terminate the operation of the Commonwealth payroll tax levied under the provisions of the Pay-Roll Tax Assessment Act 1941-1969 and the Pay-Roil Tax Act 1941-1966, thereby clearing the way for the introduction of separate payroll taxes for the States and the Commonwealth Territories. Following its enactment, the measure will commence on a date to be fixed by proclamation, the proclaimed date being 1st September 1971 or the first day of a subsequent month. The Bill provides that the existing Commonwealth payroll tax will cease to apply from the day immediately preceding the proclaimed commencement date. 
The Bill proposes also to terminate the payroll tax export rebate scheme with effect from the close of the 1970-71 finacial year. I have already foreshadowed the later introduction of a separate Bill to provide a system of direct grants based on exports until 30th June 1973 when the present rebate scheme was due to expire. To facilitate the transfer of the tax to the States, the Bill contains provisions to authorise the Commissioner of Taxation to furnish information to the authorities who will administer the State payroll tax laws. The provisions of the Bill are explained in detail in an explanatory memorandum being circulated to honourable senators. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Poke)  adjourned. 
(4.32)  -  I move - 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to impose the payroll tax payable by employers in the Australian Capital Territory, including Jervis Bay, and the Northern Territory, and to declare the rate at which the tax is to be paid. The Bill proposes that tax be payable at the rate of21/2per cent of the wages subject to tax under the provisions of the Pay-Roll Tax (Territories) Assessmen Bill 1971, after deduction of the statutory exemption allowable in accordance with that Bill. The rate is the same as that at which the existing Commonwealth payroll tax has been imposed and will apply as from the commencement date to be proclaimed for the purposes of the PayRoll Tax (Termination of Commonwealth Tax) Bill 1971.  I  commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Poke)  adjourned. 
(4.36)  -  In the circumstances, which we all appreciate, perhaps I cannot respond in as much detail as the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  would. I certainly will see that the views expressed by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  are conveyed to the Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme).  I understand that the decision was taken under the provisions of section 99 (2.) and that the Australian Broadcasting Control Board could have invoked section 119 of the Act if it had elected to do so. According to the information I have, the Board acted in the way it did in order to protect viewers from further offences from the persons concerned. It could do this only by adopting the course it took. In the circumstances I can only say briefly that my advice is that the Board acted under the provisions of section 99 (2.) and that I will undertake to see that an explanation in more depth on the points raised is provided to the Leader of the Opposition. 
Before the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  begins his speech, perhaps I could point out that there are 3 Bills covering much the same matters. They are the Superannuation (Pension Increases) Bill 1971, the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits (Pension Increases) Bill 1971 and the Parliamentary Retiring Allowances (Increases) Bill 1971. Honourable senators have an explanatory document relating to these 3 Bills and I invite the Leader of the Opposition to consider whether we might have a second reading debate covering the 3 bills. 
(5.18) - What  Senator Murphy  says has some validity. Some very obvious injustices have been allowed to develop under this legislation and if is proposed by this Bill to correct those situations. That remark does not cut across the generality of the points which were raised by the honourable senator and which I dealt with in my reply to the debate on the second reading of this Bill. I do not know what the future holds. I know what 1 hope the future holds, but 1 do not know what will happen. Therefore we cannot, in deciding these allowances, take into account what might happen in the future. I feel that all the points that have been made have much validity and I find myself in disagreement with very little of what has been said. 
Bill agreed to.  
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
(9.28) - I am not speaking in any capacity other than that of a senator reflecting very briefly on a private senator's Bill introduced by  Senator Murphy  on 22nd April 1970. I am speaking only because I understand that the vote on the Bill is to be a free vote and because it would be reasonable for me to express a view about the 
Bill. I have not prepared myself to make  a  big debating contribution. I have had the opportunity of listening to a number of speeches. They have indicated to me that  a  great degree of research and preparation has gone into the speeches made by certain senators. I express my misgivings about the Bill. If we were debating a motion, that would be an entirely different matter. We could be talking about a broad principle. Here we are talking about a Bill which, if passed, as it may well be, will go by way of message to the other place. This is  a  Bill for an Act to abolish capital punishment under the laws of the Commonwealth. Everybody has said that we are dwelling on a matter of momentous and tremendous importance. If we take out the preamble which reads: 'Be it enacted by the Queen's Most Excellent Majesty' etc, and if we take out the short title, all that is left of the Bill are the following 3 clauses. The first of those clauses reads: 
This Act applies throughout the whole of the Commonwealth and the Territories . . . 
That is descriptive. Clause 3 reads: 
A person shall not be liable to punishment of death for any offence. 
The final clause reads: 
Where by any Act, Regulation, Ordinance or other law it is provided that a person shall be liable to punishment of death, the reference to punishment of death shall be read, construed and applied as if the penalty of imprisonment for life were substituted therefor. 
If we were debating this matter on political lines - we are not tonight - I would move that the Bill be withdrawn. If the proposer of the Bill wished to re-present it as  a  viable Bill, at least it would be presented with some substance to it. 
I could dwell upon many aspects of this Bill, and 1 will come back to a couple of aspects which point up the tremendous danger of a Bill of this nature. For my part, in almost every case I would not be in favour of the death penalty. But I am no lawyer. Even as an ordinary citizen, reading things that people ordinarily read, one gathers that there are various degrees of homicide or murder, if you like. 
The punishment which might be applicable to one case obviously might not be applicable to others. I could never for the life of me be one who would subscribe to the death penalty where a person in circumstances of complete emotion committed the tragedy and the folly of murder.  1  could understand, and I think anybody could understand, that an act of murder could be committed in circumstances of great domestic emotion, lt could be committed in a circumstance of family trouble. lt could be committed in a whole series of circumstances relating to the health of the person. He could do something which is apparently murder in terms of the law but not. in the sense that we would understand it. a premeditated aci of murder. We talk about certain degrees of murder or killing. It would be inconceivable to me for the death penalty to be applicable if, for instance, a person committed an act of murder in one of the situations I have described. I believe that the death penalty should remain for certain cases of treason, for instance. It should apply in circumstances where a person, for monetary gain, did something which may destroy a nation and destroy the love, affection and humanity of thousands of people. 

And their lives, by an act of treason. I would retain the death penalty against that situation arising. There are other circumstances in which I could conceive of punishment of death.  1  could accept punishment of death in the case of, to express it in television terms, the hot gun killer - the man who kills not in a state of emotion but for money, whether it be Si  0,000  or some other sum. Having planned the crime, he goes away, gets the money and he kills, not because he has any regard for the person he murders, not because he gives even any thought to it, but because he is getting a payment. If he succeeds with one he will do it again. I would not have any scruples about applying the death penalty to a paid killer. I would leave it in the statute book for that reason. I cannot abide any provision for the death penalty for any offence at all. If the Bill provided for the abolition of the death penalty in cases of psychological disturbance, emotional disturbance, sickness or circumstances in which almost  98  or  99  murders out of  100  take place, I could accept it. Having shared my life with men who have given their all for their country, to have any concern for me lite of a person who would sell bis country for money would stick in my craw. I believe he would be better disposed of. 

The honourable senator will appreciate that that is a matter on which we all have a view.  1  balk at treason. I balk at the paid killer. I want to come back to other circumstances in which I argue you could not apply capital punishment or in relation to which I would not want to be seen to be advocating the retention of capital punishment. That is why I say that this Bill is too narrowly drawn. The fourth clause of the Bill is concerned with substitution of imprisonment for life. What does that mean? Does that mean for the whole of a person's natural life? Does that mean for a term at the Governor-General's pleasure? Does that mean for  20  years or  14  years on probation? Does that mean that a person who is a killer will be allowed out of prison with the possibility of killing again? 
If this Bill had refinements written into it, if it provided that for a certain type of killing the punishment could be for the whole of his natural life and he was never to be released, I could understand it; but I cannot accept the Bill in its present form. I think it is too narrow. I am speaking purely in a personal way. In most cases I would be against the death penalty but I would retain it in relation to other cases. Anybody may argue and prove a certain point, whether it be right or wrong, but 1 believe that for the type of person I had in mind the threat of the death penalty is very real. In the final analysis, the blood killer, the hot gun man, is a coward when he faces the moment of truth. I believe that if he had the death penalty on his conscience as a possible consequence of his actions it would have a salutary effect. That is all I want to say. I believe that the Bill is badly drawn. I would have thought it would be better to put up a proposition on a wider canvas. If so the Opposition might have received more support than the Bill obviously will attract. 
by leave - As the Prime Minister announced in the House of Representatives, I wish to inform the Senate that the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon)  left Australia on 1st October for the United Kingdom and Europe to attend a meeting of the Inter-governmental Maritime Consultative Organisation.  Mr Nixon  is expected to return to Australia on 21st October. During his absence the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt)  is Acting Minister for Shipping and Transport. 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That the following Legislative and General Purpose Standing Committees, appointed by the Senate on11th June 1970, be fully established: The Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, the Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs and the Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations. 
Pursuant to section 10 of the Science and Industry Endowment Act 1926-1949, I present the report of the Auditor-General on the accounts of the Science and Industry Endowment Fund for the year ended 30th June 1971. 
I remind the Senate that question time has now been going for 1 hour 20 minutes and that this part of question time will not be re-broadcast. I suggest that honourable senators keep their remaining questions for tomorrow. 
On 16th September last  Senator Devitt  asked me without notice whether any application had been reecived from the Premier of Tasmania 'for assistance to help that State in its current economic difficulties'. The Prime Minister has informed me that he has received no such application. 
Pursuant to section 22 of the Gold-Mining Industry Assistance Act 1954-1970, I present the seventeenth annual statement concerning the operation of the Act and the payment of subsidy during the year ended 30th June 1971. 
Pursuant to section 34 of the Services Trust Funds Act 1947-1950, I present the twenty-third annual report of the Trustees of the Services Canteens Trust Fund for the year ended 31st December 1970, together with the report of the AuditorGeneral on the books and accounts of the Fund as required by section 35 of the Act. 
No,  Mr President.  However, I feel that I have an obligation to make a reference by leave, if I may, to the notices of motion on the notice paper. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  in particular and certain other honourable senators have been asking me what it is proposed to do in relation to the notices of motion on the notice paper. I want to indicate that I have initiated a study of these matters and I hope to be able to move before wc depart at the end of this week a fairly comprehensive motion which will deal with the lot of them, suggesting certain treatment for each rather than a debate on the whole 9 proposals at this point of time.  Mr President,  it has been suggested to me. in relation to the proposal that certain petitions which have been presented to the Senate be referred to standing committees of the Senate, that consideration be given by the movers of the motions to adding to the proposal that the petitions be referred to standing committees of the Senate the words 'for information'. If that were done it would facilitate my consideration of the proposals. I move: 
That Business of the Senate. Notices of Motions Nos I to 9. be postponed tilt the next day, of sitting. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
 Mr President,  I suggest that this 
Bill and the Pay-Roil Tax (Territories) Assessment Bill 1971 and the Pay-Roll Tax (Territories) Bill 1971 should be debated concurrently at the second reading stage and dealt with separately at the Committee stage, if that is the wish of the Senate. 
(8.5) -  Senator Cavanagh  has raised a very interesting point. In relation to paragraph (a) of the definition of wages in clause 4 he said, as I understood him, that because the building industry sub-contracts to a significant extent the payment of payroll tax is avoided to a large degree. I do not think  Senator Cavanagh  specifically mentioned, although I think it is clearly what he had in mind, that in a situation where there was a whole multiplicity of subcontracts, all below $20,300, which is the payroll tax exemption, the payment of  a  significant amount in payroll tax could be avoided. 1 think that is a fair statement of what in effect could happen. 

I think it is also significant to point out that the building industry traditionally operates on a sub-contract basis. There is  a  tendency for sub-contracting right throughout the industry, even in home building. As  Senator Cavanagh  very properly pointed out, one could under those circumstances avoid the payment of payroll tax on a significant building project. My advisers have informed me that a regulation could be subject to disallowance.  I  think I should point out that this provision follows the pattern set in the old Act. J am also informed that it follows the pattern which the States are following in relation to this matter. I would be the first to acknowledge that perhaps that is not an answer to  Senator Cavanagh's  remarks but, short of seeking a further examination of this matter later on, I cannot offer any more at this stage. 

 Senator Cavanagh has taken the view that the way in which this provision is shaped means that deliberate action could be taken to avoid the payment of payroll tax. In reply to that comment I wish to say that this provision follows the practice which has been adopted in the past. It follows the provision which we understand is to be reflected in the State Acts and it certainly recognises the fact, which the honourable senator would know better than most of us, that the building industry has always lent itself to sub-contracting. 
(8.17)  -  I appreciate the point raised by  Senator Cavanagh.  On the face of it clause 29 would appear to have certain implications, but I am told that it will be used only in extreme circumstances. It will be used only when there is a view in the mind of those in responsible positions that the person or organisation is attempting to place himself or itself outside the jurisdiction or is deliberately avoiding service of process. Similar provisions have seldom been used. This clause is inserted as an added safeguard against a circumstance which could arise. It would be used only in a particular case. That is the only information that I have; that is the explanation given to me by my advisers. The provision is not a new one, I gather. A substituted service provision is to be found not only in this but in other legislation. When I was associated with real estate, if there was an avoidance of service the notification could be pinned on the door. In certain circumstances it could be pinned on a post in a fence. This was the absolute ultimate. When the case was heard the circumstances in which the process of service was made had to be established. The clause is inserted as a safeguard against the ultimate situation. That ls the only information that I have at present. 
(8.54)  -  Courtesy demands that I should indicate that  Senator Wilkinson  raised this matter earlier but I did not advert to it in my reply. At the time- we were anxious to dispose of these Bills before rising for the dinner suspension. The history of the matter is that Commonwealth payroll tax is imposed at the rate of  2i  per cent. At the level of a meeting of the Premiers with the Prime Minister it was decided to give to the States a growth tax. It was decided to give payroll tax to the States, but that decision did not affect the imposition of payroll tax in the Commonwealth Territories. The record shows that on the same afternoon that that decision was made, the States without any modesty agreed to accept the tax and to increase it by 1 per cent. 
As  Senator Wilkinson  has pointed out, the result is that unless the Commonwealth is prepared to follow the States by increasing the rate of payroll tax, in the Commonwealth Territories the tax will remain at  2i  per cent whereas in the States, in the background of State administration, it has been decided to increase the tax by 1 per cent. It is also true, as  Senator Wilkinson  has pointed out, that industry in the Territories will have an advantage in that respect. However, I do not think that it is a significant advantage or of such an order that it would attract specialised industries to the Territories. 1 suppose that it is possible, but in my judgment it is drawing the long bow. Other advantages and disadvantages would have to be weighed in the basket with elements such as transport costs. 
The States now have complete sovereignty in the administration of their payroll tax. If they choose to do so they may vary the rate of the tax and it could well happen that differing rates of payroll tax will in future apply throughout the States. That is really the short answer to the honourable senator's question. They are the facts of life. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without requests; report adopted. 
by leave - The statement I am about to make was made this evening in another place by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon).  Honourable senators will understand that when 1 use the first person personal pronoun it refers to the Prime Minister. 
For some time past now, the Government has been examining the role of nursing homes in caring for the sick aged, their financial position and the extent of Commonwealth financial assistance for all nursing home patients. Over the past 5 years, the number of nursing home beds has increased from about 33,000 to about 47,000. There is no doubt that this has resulted in a very significant improvement in the care of the sick aged in Australia.  
The financial assistance provided by the Commonwealth for nursing home patients, which amounted to nearly $50m in 1970- 71, has been an important factor contributing to the growth of these homes and to the overall raising of standards of care. The assistance to be provided to those people requiring nursing home care is an extraordinarily complex question involving consideration of the differing needs and circumstances of patients in various types of homes. These homes are run by State governments as well as by religious and charitable organisations and by private proprietors. As I have indicated, the present arrangements relating to the care of, and assistance to, those requiring nursing home treatment have been under review for some time. We are continuing this review with the aim of introducing new long term arrangements as soon as it is practicable to do so. This, of course, will include consultation with State governments as necessary. 
We recognise that the recent steep increases in running costs, notably in nurses' salaries, has placed many homes in an extremely difficult financial position. Those homes relying largely on Commonwealth .assistance to patients through benefits or pensions have been hit particularly hard. We have therefore decided, as an interim measure, to increase nursing home benefits to take effect as soon as the necessary legislation is passed by Parliament and assented to. Benefits for patients' receiving ordinary nursing home care will be increased from $2 a day to $3.50 a day or $24.50 a week. Benefits for patients receiving intensive care will be increased from $5 a day to $6.50 a day or. $45.50 a week. ' The cost of these increases will be approximately $24m in a full year. The cost in 1971-72, which will depend on the date of assent to the amending legislation to give effect to the new legislation, will be of the order of $12m to $14m. 
This action is being taken in accordance with the Government's overall policy of assisting the sick and the aged wherever areas of need exist. Nursing home benefits are only one of the many provisions made by the Commonwealth to help aged persons, and the increase in benefits is to be seen in the context of the substantial assistance we are providing in other ways. I refer to such measures as the age pension and related payments, assistance with aged persons housing and assistance provided through our home care programme. Within the limits necessarily imposed by available resources, it is the policy of the Government to improve progressively the welfare of elderly citizens. 
I present the following paper: 
Commonwealth Assistance for Nursing Home Patients - Ministerial Statement, 3 October 1971-  and move: 
That the Senate lake note of the statement. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Wilkinson)  adjourned. 
(4.36)  - I  move: 
That the following legislative and general purpose standing committees appointed by the Senate on 11th June 1970, be fully establishedForeign Affairs and Defence; Constitutional and Legal Affairs; and Finance and Government Operations. 
Motion (by  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson) agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Yesterday  I  indicated that discussion was taking place between the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  and myself in relation to notices of motion.  I  am not yet in a position to clarify the situation but  I  hope to be able to do so tomorrow.  I  move: 
That notices of motion Nos 1 to 9 be postponed until the next day of sitting. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
For the information of honourable senators,  I  present the Defence Report,  1971. 
In response to a question asked of me during question time I indicated the order that business of the Senate will take today. This afternoon Estimates Committee A will meet in the Senate chamber and Estimates Committee E will meet in LI 7. They will meet at 2.15 p.m. I understand that  Senator Murphy  wishes to amend some notices of motion. If he moves his amendments I can dispose of them by a blanket proposal to adopt them. 
I move: 
That following the introduction of 4 Bills from the House of Representatives the sitting of the Senate be suspended, to enable Estimates Committees C and D to meet, until the ringing of the bells at approximately quarter past 10 this evening. 
When the sitting is suspended there will be a period of approximately 10 minutes before the Committees sit. This will enable the relevant chambers to be prepared to enable the Committees to function. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 

I ask for leave to make a statement and then move a motion. 
(9.49)- I move: 
That intervening business be postponed until after consideration of Government Business, order of the day No. 11. 
I indicate that if a message comes from the other place tonight I shall ask that progress  be  reported to enable me to put the message down. Meantime, we shall deal with order of the day  No.  11. 
Question resolved  in  the affirmative. 
(9.1) - When the Death Penalty Abolition Bill was dealt with about a fortnight ago - in fact, when the second reading debate was almost concluded - it was moved that the matter be referred to a committee. Having spoken on the Bill myself and made it abundantly clear that this was a private member's Bill in which there had been no caucusing of Government views and that there was to be a free vote, with all its implications, I was appalled at what I subsequently read in the Press. There was an implication that the motion moved by  Senator Greenwood  was a device to kill off the Bill. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONJ want to make it abundantly clear that we are now dealing with a motion to refer the Bill to a committee. The situation in relation to the notice of motion as far as the Government is concerned is precisely the same as when we dealt with the Bill. This is not a Government motion. It is coincidental that the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  has moved this motion. We are in the climate of a completely free vote. Personally I intend to exercise a free vote. When I spoke on the second reading of the Bill it was clear that I did not believe in the Bill in its present form and I made some obvious criticism of the drafting of the Bill and some of its implications.  Senator Murphy  has moved an amendment to  Senator Greenwood's  motion that the Bill be referred to the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. The honourable senator suggests that the second reading debate should be disposed of and a vote taken. He suggests that after that is done the Committee should report not later than 9th November 1971. I subscribe to the view that it is fair enough to put a time limit in relation to reporting back to the Senate. Significantly 9th November 1971 would be during the intended period of the sittings of the Senate and the Parliament. There would be a reasonable time after that date - roughly a month, give or take a day or two - before the Senate recessed. I do not criticise that as a proposition. I support it. If that proposal had been put in the amendment in a separate form I would vote for it in that separate form. In fact, from what  Senator Greenwood  has said by way of interjection I think that he would not be strongly against the proposal that the Committee report back to the Senate. 
But I find difficulty in the proposition that the Committee's report is contingent upon the second reading of the Bill because it is not an isolated issue on one line. As we said during the second reading stage of the Bill there are contingency situations in the Bill in relation to life imprisonment. There are contingency matters which any honourable senator is entitled to reflect upon before he casts his vote for the second reading. If the motion moved by  Senator Greenwood  is passed tonight the order of the day under General Business in the name of  Senator Murphy  will be taken off the business paper. It will disappear. It will not be debated tomorrow night if the motion moved by  Senator Greenwood  is carried. The  Clerk  of the Senate has told me that that is the procedure. In my capacity as an individual senator, I support the motion moved by  Senator Greenwood.  I also support part of the proposed amendment moved by  Senator Murphy  which provides that the report be brought back by not later than 9th November. But I cannot support the proposition that this is all contingent upon the passage of the second reading of the Bill. It seems to me that the second reading of the Bill, if it were passed, establishes the whole issue. I do not think we can vote on the whole issue until such time as certain elements which arc contingent issues and which have been referred to by  Senator Greenwood  and, indeed, referred to by myself when the Bill was debated previously, are decided. If  Senator Murphy  were to take that part of his amendment out I think we could have a speedy resolution of the matter which is now before the Senate. 
(10.38)  -  I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the Bill before the Senate is, firstly, to provide for an increase in the patient benefit for ordinary nursing home care from $2.00 a day to $3.50 a day; secondly, to give effect to the Government's Budget proposals in relation to the contribution payable by the patient for pharmaceutical benefits; thirdly to incorporate into the schedules of the National Health Act variations made to certain items of those Schedules during 1971 by Regulations. As the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  announced on 5th October, it is proposed to increase the Commonwealth benefit for patients receiving ordinary nursing home care by $1.50 a day to $3.50 a day or $24.50 a week. As a consequence, benefits for patients receiving intensive nursing home care will be increased from $5.00 a day to $6.50 a day or $45.50 a week. 
The nursing home benefits made available by the Commonwealth Government apply to patients accommodated in nursing homes approved for such purposes under the provisions of the National Health Act. These nursing homes are conducted by private proprietors, by religious and charitable organisations or by the various State Governments. The Government has been reviewing the present arrangements for patients requiring nursing home treatment. As stated by the Prime Minister, the Government has not abandoned its aim of introducing new long term arrangements as soon as it is practicable to do so and the increase of $1.50 a day proposed in this Bill is in the nature of an interim measure to alleviate the financial difficulties which are now being experienced by nursing homes and their patients. It is estimated that the proposed increase of $1.50 a day will inject some S24m more a year into the nursing home area. During 1970-71 Government expenditure in this area amounted to $49. 5m and is estimated to rise, excluding the proposed increase of $1.50 a day, to $5 1.9m in 1971-72. 
As announced in the Budget, it is proposed to raise the level of patient contribution in respect of general pharmaceutical benefits from 50c to $1. The fee has remained at 50c since 1960. However, the contribution payable by persons eligible for assistance under the subsidised health benefits plan will be maintained at 50c. Pensioners and their dependants covered by the pensioner medical service will continue to receive pharmaceutical benefits free of charge. It is proposed that these provisions will come into effect on a date to be proclaimed. The present system of providing pharmaceutical benefits to the general public, other than pensioners, is based on the principle of Government assistance to the individual in meeting the cost of medical treatment rather than the provision of 'free medicine' in the literal sense. In September 1950 a scheme was introduced by the Government which provided certain life-saving and diseasepreventing drugs free of cost to the whole community on a doctor's prescription. From July 1951 the Government introduced a further scheme which provided a comprehensive range of medicines for pensioners who were enrolled in the pensioner medical service. No charge was made for these drugs. 
Between the years 1951 and 1960 the list of life-saving and disease-preventing benefits was periodically expanded to include newly-developed drugs. In March 1960 a major departure was made from the then existing schemes. The general and pensioner benefits schemes were amalgamated and the entire range of drugs in both schemes, with the exception of a small number of drugs restricted to eligible pensioners, was made available to  I  he general public. The list of benefits was greatly expanded to provide a much wider range of treatment. At the same time all items on the list, except those restricted to eligible pensioners, were made available to the general public at a fee of 50c for each item supplied by a chemist. Pensioners, however, continued to receive the benefits free of charge. The drugs and medicinal preparations made available as pharmaceutical benefits are determined by the Minister for Health on the advice of the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee established under section 101 of the National Health Act. 
As honourable senators are aware, pharmaceutical benefits are the most expensive component of the Government's overall health benefits plan. In 1970-71 the cost to the Commonwealth of prescription benefits to the general public amounted to $88. 2m. Additional costs to the Commonwealth included payments to public hospitals and miscellaneous sources of $26.9m and payments in respect of benefits supplied to eligible pensioners and dependants under the pensioner medical service of $45. 2m, a total of $ 160.3m. This figure compares with $136.7m in 1969-70. In 1960-61 the corresponding costs were $34.3m, $6. 8m and $14.7m respectively, a total of $55. 8m. Commonwealth expenditure on pharmaceutical prescription benefits for the general public has thus increased by 157.2 per cent over a period of 1 1 years. 
The patient contribution has increased from $10.3m to $24.4m for the same period, an increase of 136.9 per cent. However, the relationship of patient contribution to the total cost has fallen from 23.1 per cent in 1960-61 to 21.7 per cent in 1970-71. While the cost per prescription has risen from $2.18 in 1960-61 to $2.30 in 1970-71 and is estimated to rise to $2.65 in 1971-72, the number of prescriptions per head has increased from 2.13 in 1960-61 to 4-26 in 1970-71 and is expected to rise to 4.48 in 1971-72. The effect has been that the cost per person in respect of general benefit prescriptions has risen from S4.62 in 1960-61 to $9.80 in 1970-71. 
Three main contributing factors are responsible for the increase in cost to the Commonwealth. These are the addition of new expensive drugs and the relaxation of restrictions on prescribing of certain drugs - particularly in relation to the antibiotics, analgesics, anti-hypertensive and anti-depressant groups of drugs - together with some increase in prescribing by doctors unaccounted for by the above 2 factors. It is estimated that the proposed increase in the patient contribution from 50c to $1 will effect a reduction in the cost of the scheme to the Commonwealth, in respect of general prescription benefits, of $24. 6m in a full year and $15. 8m in the current financial year. These estimates have been made on the basis of the situation that pertained in 1970-71. The expected savings, however, could be affected by variations to the list of benefits and changes in doctors' prescribing habits. 
At a time when the Government is concerned with the continuing sharp increase in the cost of the pharmaceutical benefits scheme, it believes that it is not unreasonable for the community at large to bear the cost of the increased patient contribution- There have of course been substantial increases in incomes since I960 when the existing patient contribution was first set. The proposed increase to $1 will mean that those items listed in the schedules to the pharmaceutical benefits regulations as pharmaceutical benefits which cost $1 or less will not be available as benefits to the general public. It is not proposed that these benefits be deleted from the schedule of benefits, as the Government recognises that such items should be retained and made available for the use of pensioners and persons eligible for assistance under the subsidised health benefits plan. The present provisions of the National Health Act relating to the treatment of chronic diseases or conditions will also continue to apply. 
As I have already mentioned, persons eligible for assistance under the subsidised health benefits plan will not have to meet the increase of 50c for national health prescriptions. This decision is in keeping with the Government's policy under the health benefits plan to assist where possible those special groups in the community to meet the cost of medical care. The subsidised health benefits plan, which has been in existence since January 1970, provides assistance in meeting the cost of medical and hospital treatment to persons receiving unemployment, sickness and special social service benefits, migrants during their first 2 months in Australia and low income families. 
The Bill provides that persons and their dependants eligible for assistance in each of these categories will be able to obtain medicines and drugs prescribed under the pharmaceutical benefits scheme for 50c per prescription. While the Government will assist these special groups of people to obtain their pharmaceutical benefits for a charge of only 50c, the onus to establish initial eligibility must rest with the persons concerned. It is essential therefore that persons who believe they are entitled to subsidised pharmaceutical benefits, should make application to the Department of Social Services or, in the case of migrants, to the Department of Health as soon as the changes become effective. 
The Government has also considered the position of certain members of friendly societies who joined prior to 24th April 1964 and who, under their lodge rules, are entitled to receive varying levels of rebates on the present 50c patient contribution for benefit items dispensed by friendly societies' dispensaries. The Government has decided to allow society dispensaries to rebate the proposed $1 patient contribution in whole or in part to those members who joined the societies prior to 24th April 1964. 
The third purpose of the Bill is to incorporate into the schedules to the National Health Act variations made to those schedules by the National Health (Variations of Benefits) Regulations in accordance with section 13a of that Act This section provides that a table in a medical benefit schedule to the Act may be varied by regulation. However, the regulations cease to have effect unless they are ratified by an amendment of the Act within 15 sitting days of the House of Representatives following the expiration of 12 months after notification of the regulation in the Commonwealth Gazette. This particular section was inserted by amendment to the Act in 1970, as part of the reconstruction of the medical benefits segment of the new health benefits plan. It was recognised at that time that adjustments to the schedules would be necessary as more comprehensive data became available regarding fees commonly charged by doctors for medical procedures infrequently carried out. It was also realised that it would be necessary from time to time to fix appropriate amounts for new medical procedures as they were introduced and to adjust Commonwealth and fund benefits for medical services when new common fees were determined. 
The National Health (Variation of Benefits) (No. 1) Regulations (Statutory Rules No. 43 of 1971) were notified in the Commonwealth Gazette on 1st April 1971 and came into force on that date. The National Health (Variation of Benefits) (No. 2) Regulations (Statutory Rules No. 75 of 1971) were notified in the Commonwealth Gazette on 24th June 1971 and came into force on 1st July 1971. The variations made to the medical benefit schedules contained in the Variation of Benefits Regulations No. 1 and No. 2 are therefore covered by the present Bill. The regulations which became effective from 1st April 1971 involved amendments to 29 items of the schedules. A number of services not previously listed were introduced into the schedules and in addition the common fees and benefits for some items already listed were varied. 
The variations in the most common fees were made because at the time the original list of most common fees was drawn up, information on some services had been incomplete. These amendments from April 1971 resulted from recommendations of the Medical Benefits Schedule Advisory Committee which is a body appointed by the Minister for Health to consider and recommend changes in the benefits schedules. The Committee consists of representatives of the Australian Medical Association, the registered medical benefits organisations and the Department of Health. The changes to the medical benefit schedule made by the regulations which became operative from 1st July 1971 were much more significant in their scope than the previous regulations, although not as many in number. The most significant feature of these regulations was the increase in Commonwealth and fund benefits in most States for the important general practitioner surgery consultations and home visits to meet the increases in the most common fees for those services as from 1st July 1971. 
When the new common fee system was introduced on 1st July 1970 both the Government and the Australian Medical Association recognised the necessity for periodic reviews of medical fees to take account oi economic circumstances, lt was decided that there should be a review of the most common fees at 2-yearly intervals and that the first review would have effect from 1st July 1971. These regulations incorporate the changes made to the most common fees for surgery consultations and home visits as a result of a review of common fees. Consequential adjustments were also necessary to fees for 11 other medical services which, for fees and benefit purposes, are equated to general practitioner surgery consultations.  I  commend the Bill to  honourable  senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Douglas  McClelland) adjourned. 
 Mr President,  I do not wish to rearrange the business paper. As to what will happen after 8 o'clock tonight, I suggest that we might be able to deal with that matter at 8 o'clock tonight. 
 Mr President,  I seek leave to table a document and, in the act of tabling it, to make a statement on behalf of the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  in relation to that document. 
(5.17) - I want to say 2 things in reply to the remarks of  Senator Douglas  McClelland. The first is that the honourable senator has dealt with a particular case. I will have that case looked at. I have also asked my officers to give me some information on the matter to which he referred about the checking of the statistics from the funds. If at any time during the Committee stage I am in a position to give a categorical answer one way or the other I will do so. If the necessary information is not available to me during the debate, I will supply it to the honourable senator as soon as it is made available to me. An officer has just gone out of the chamber to check on the point that the honourable senator has raised but, having regard to thetime of the day, it may be difficult for him to do so. 
(8.14)  -  What I said before the suspension for dinner was directed to the human side of this question and I think  Senator Cavanagh  recognises that sort of problem. When a person receives medical advice there is tremendous pressure on him, in terms of logic, emotion and anything you can think of, to accept that advice. I do not want to dwell on this matter.  Senator Cavanagh  has made a point in relation to drugs and I suspect it flows from his experience on the Senate Select Committee on Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse. 
When talking about medicines and drugs it is well to remember that before a drug is made available as an item in the schedule of pharmaceutical benefits it must be recommended by the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee. That Committee sends a recommendation to the Minister for Health. It is made up of 6 doctors, 2 pharmacists and 1 pharmacologist. They are the people who make the elevation and say whether a drug should go on the list. If it is not on the list it does not attract benefits even if it is prescribed. That is one argument. I am prepared to rest my case on that argument and on the human factor I mentioned. As I said before the adjournment there are some issues on which the Government on the one hand and the Opposition on the other have to agree to differ for the purpose of this debate. I do not think there is any sense in prolonging it because our fundamental attitudes are different. 
(4.30) - in reply - I trust it is understood that I am closing the debate prior to the vote being taken on the amendment and the motion for the second reading of the Bill. The first thing I want to say in response to the debate is that the Bill is narrowly confined to certain matters. It relates to an added subvention by the Commonwealth for nursing homes; it relates to pharmaceutical benefits, in respect of which there is a budgetary implication; and also it relates to regulations whereby various amendments have been made to schedules to meet previous requirements of the Parliament. These regulations have to be formalised within a certain time and they will be formalised by this piece of legislation. 

 Senator Douglas McClelland, who led for the Opposition, but more particularly other speakers and significantly  Senator Mulvihill  covered the whole spectrum of health and social services in the Commonwealth. In the nature of things it is not possible for me in reply to respond to all points raised by  Senator Mulvihill  with the same rapidity with which he mentioned them. I remind the Senate that the estimates for the Department of Health were considered by an Estimates Committee a few days ago.  Senator Mulvihill  was entitled to be present on that occasion and to pose questions, at which time it would have been possible for me, with the aid of my officers who were sitting with me, to give immediate answers to bis questions. It would be absolutely impossible for me in responding to the debate on the motion for the second reading to give answers to many of the points raised by the honourable senator. He raised questions of policy, the relationship between the Commonwealth and the funds, and also the report of the Nimmo Committee. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI heard the honourable senator in silence and I shall reply to him in complete fairness. He raised questions in relation to the Nimmo report and in some respects he criticised decisions taken by the Nimmo Committee. When he subsequently spoke of the Nimmo report his argument was the opposite of what we had heard earlier. Because of the many matters raised during the second reading debate I propose, not only for  Senator Mulvihill  but also for every honourable senator who spoke in the debate, to put my officers to a study of the issues raised and to ensure that a written reply is sent in relation to these matters. Not only will I do that but certainly I shall be responsible for reading the replies before they go to the honourable senators. 
In the short speech by  Senator Mulvihill  about 25 issues were raised, involving matters which it would be beyond my capacity to deal with off the cuff and which would probably take me a couple of hours to deal with. They involved points of policy. Having said that and having given the assurance, which he knows I will carry out, I propose to deal with some matters of issue on the Bill itself. These were not necessarily matters of health. The first matter to which I refer is nursing home costs and benefits. The decision reflected in this Bill will come into effect after the Bill is passed and after it receives royal assent. It will result in an increase of $1.50 a day in the payment to patients in nursing homes. 
In passing I might point out that  Senator Poyser  was not talking about nursing homes at all, per se. He was talking about homes which are under the control of the Department of Social Services, not nursing homes dealt with under this Act. Most of his argument was directed not at the nursing home problem but homes such as rehabilitation centres and homes which attract the subsidy of $2 for $1 but which are not within the ambit of this Bill. This Bill provides for an increase of $1.50 a day. That means that the subsidy for persons in those homes will increase from $2 a day to $3.50 a day. Those persons who are under intensive care will find that their subsidy will rise from $5 a day to $6.50 a day. What this will cost already has been referred to in the speech I made earlier. The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  said when he made the announcement that the Government regards this as a holding decision to enable a further study to continue into nursing home costsand benefits. 
Some of the matters that are under study have been referred to in this debate. They include the question of the domiciliary side of nursing, the association with the States in regard to this matter, and various schemes such as one referred to today by, I think,  Senator Mulvihill  and that is the question of seeking from the funds an additional benefit for members of the funds. Here again it would be well to remember, because it was not brought out in the debate, that about 75 per cent of the people in the homes are pensioners to whom this particular fund argument will not apply. That does not mean that the possibility of trying to arrange an extension of the insurance cover with the funds is not a valid point which must be examined. Honourable senators should not imagine that this will be the end of all our problems because, as I said, about 75 per cent of people in the homes are recipients of pensions. 
This is the task that I, as Minister for Health - perhaps as a junior Minister for Health, since I have held this portfolio since the beginning of August only - have to undertake, with all the goodwill, help and co-operation I can get, so that we can improve the position in nursing homes and submit a plan to the Government for its concurrence. Ultimately a national health Bill will come before the Parliament and it will then be subject to scrutiny. We nope that it will consolidate the situation facing nursing homes and provide wider coverage, comfort and security to the people in them. That is the challenge with which we are confronted and to which we have already turned our minds. 

 Senator Douglas McClelland, who led for the Opposition, dealt to some extent with the subsidised medical service scheme. He presented a series of figures which cut across figures I had given earlier at question time. They also cut across the figures I have with me at the moment. Superficially the situation looked pretty difficult for me because he was quoting from the annual report. However I feel bound to point out that he was quoting from a table in that report which referred to a situation at a particular time - I think it was 30th June. The figures I presented previously and which I am now about to repeat relate to the year 1970-71. 
The thing to remember about the scheme is that it has been in existence for only about 21 months. It had to be launched and people had to be educated on how it applies. It has significant application to people with very low incomes. In the economic sense the recipients under the scheme would be influenced by the economy and by the very nature of the earnings of the community. That is the first thing I want to point out. I read in the Press some days ago that the average weekly income was in the vicinity of $80 a week. Looking at the Act we see that the benefit applies to people with certain incomes and it is understandable, having regard to the figures, that the number of people affected would not be very significant. But I want to counter the figures given by  Senator Douglas  McClelland which related to a particular date. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONYes, the Department's figures and in fact they were contained in the annual report. During the last financial year this scheme benefited 82,000 unemployed, sickness and special beneficiaries. Of course, unemployment is a transient thing. People can be unemployed for a certain time and then, thank God, be re-employed. It is very difficult to quote figures for this legislation because that part of it affecting unemployed persons would be influenced by the circumstances of the people concerned. I think  Senator Douglas  McClelland quoted  a  figure of something like 56,000. 
Very well, 54,000. The figures I have are in the order of 82,000, 11,000 low income families and 28,000 migrants. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONIn fact it brings the total figure, as I recall it, to something of the order of 120,000. The arguments produced in relation to this scheme are very difficult when based on figures because of the changing scene. That is not to say that I and my Department, and the Government as well, do not believe that we could not give wider publicity to the scheme. It does not mean that I do not accept that we may be able to simplify some of the requirements of the scheme. It is fair to say that there has been tremendous coverage given to it amongst medical practitioners, in medical journals, in the advertising field and the like. I think it was  Senator Mulvihill  who asked whether we could advertise this scheme through the trade union movement. Certainly one Opposition senator said this. I said that we certainly would look into that matter and that still holds. 
The concept of the scheme is good. It has not been operating long enough to warrant the criticism that it has received from the Opposition. The scheme serves a good purpose. It was designed to help the unemployed and low income families who are unable to meet fund payments. People with low incomes may be employed for a while and then unemployed for a while. Certainly the scheme gives a special benefit to migrants in the immediate period after they arrive in this country. 
The other main matter that has been touched upon is the proposal that the pharmaceutical benefits charge be increased from 50c to $1. I found it difficult to follow some of the arguments that were used in that regard. For instance,  Senator Poyser  sought to make a comparison, which I found to be an extraordinary one and whichI could not follow, between the cost increases in nursing homes and the difference between the 50c increase and the $1 increase. Everybody who goes into a nursing home has to pay. The point he did not bring out is that pensioners, who represent about 75 per cent of the people in nursing homes, do not pay for pharmaceutical benefits at all. They will not pay the $1. They do not pay the 50c and they never have. Therfore, 1 found that comparison a little difficult to follow. 1 think it is proper to point out, as was pointed out in the second reading speech, that there has been a significant increase in costs in the pharmacy field. This is not peculiar to this country. The increase is consistent with the increases in other countries. I also point out that the original concept of the 50c charge was to have recipient participation. The original charge of 50c has been translated in terms of current costs. In the Bill we have preserved the position of members of friendly societies who, because they paid lodge dues prior to 1 964, were excluded from payment of the charge. That exclusion has been preserved in relation to the $1 charge. But we have not - let this be understood - carried the exclusion beyond the people who were in the societies prior to 1964. 
I repeat that it is impossible for me to respond to all the points that have been raised in relation to the national health scheme, given the very great tolerance that honourable senators enjoy in a second reading debate. They are allowed to ranga very wide. But, because many of the points were of significance in relation to the broad policy, 1 will ensure that they are picked out and that answers are supplied to the honourable senators concerned. I was particularly interested in the remarks made about subscriber participation in fund administration. I have already answered questions on that matter at question time. I am sorry if the answers I have given are not satisfactory. Perhaps I can give an expanded answer covering some of the points that were not covered. T would be delighted to have this Bill passed quickly. I have no doubt that when we reach the Committee stage  Senator Douglas  McClelland, who is leading for the Opposition, will speak more directly on certain clauses of the Bill. Perhaps we will then have a more definitive discussion than we can have in a second reading debate. 
by leave  -  I desire to make a statement on behalf of the Acting Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony).  I wish to inform the Senate that the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  is leaving Australia today to visit the United States of America and Britain for discussions with  President  Nixon and  Mr Heath  on matters of mutual concern.  Mr McMahon  is expected to return to Australia in the middle of November. During his absence  Mr Anthony  will be acting as Prime Minister. 
Pursuant to section 14 of the Commonwealth Grants Commission Act 1933-1966, I present the Thirty-eighth report (1971) and supplement of the Commonwealth Grants Commission on applications made by States for financial assistance under section 96 of the Constitution. 
(11.55)- I move: 
That at 12.45 p.m. today the sitting of the Senate be suspended until the ringing of the bells at 5.15 p.m. to enable Estimates Committees C and D to meet this afternoon. 
The Estimates Committees will commence at 2.15 this afternoon and there will be the usual ringing of the bells to alert honourable senators that those Committees are about to commence their hearings. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
(12.18) - I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to implement the Government's decision announced on 1st May 1970 to introduce legislation to ensure that the Commonwealth had adequate power to control the acquisition by local or overseas interests of large shareholdings in banks incorporated in Australia. The Governments policy towards the ownership of banks in Australia is based on the view that banking should be conducted by companies of undoubted financial viability which can be expected to recognise that banking is a business in which the nation has special interests. In addition, it is the policy of the Government, as it has been of all previous Governments since 1945, not to grant overseas interests authorities to carry on banking business in Australia or to allow them io acquire interests in existing Australian banks. 
The Banking Act confers on the Government power to consider applications to open new banks in Australia and to recommend to the Governor-General that an authority should be granted. Sections 8 and 9 provide that, subject to certain exemptions, a body corporate shall not carry on banking business in Australia unless it has an authority to do so. In accordance wilh the long-standing policy, applications from overseas interests for authorities to carry on banking business would be refused. Before recommending the issue of an authority to an Australian applicant, the Government would need to be fully satisfied on ail aspects of the application, in particular that the applicant company had the financial strength to fulfil the responsibilities involved in operating an authorised bank and that the persons controlling the applicant company bad a standing commensurate with those responsibilities. Consistent with the power in relation to the granting of authorities to commence new banking business, the Govern ment needs to have undoubted power to control changes in ownership of an authorised bank. 
The Banking Act confers only limited power on the Government to control such changes in ownership. Section 63 provides that, except with the Treasuer's consent, a bank shall not enter into an arrangement for the sale or disposal of its business, by amalgamation or otherwise, or effect a reconstruction of the bank. But there are other ways in which the ownership of a bank could change hands. The legal advice is that it is doubtful whether the Treasurer's consent would be required under this section to the acquisition of a controlling or significant interest in a bank, for instance, by (he purchase of the bank's shares on a stock exchange, the acquisition of shares by means of a takeover bid, or the taking up of a parcel of new shares of the bank issued specifically for the purpose. The object of the Bill is therefore to supplement the provisions of section 63 c-f the Banking Act, by providing a method of exercising control over the possession by local or overseas interests of substantial interests in shares of banks incorporated in Australia. 
The need for the Government to be able to control changes in bank ownership was emphasis last year when certain changes in shareholdings in one of the authorised banks were brought to the government's notice. As I have already mentioned, a statement was issued by the then Treasurer on 1st May 1970 announcing the Government's intention to introduce legislation to require the Treasurer's approval in future to acquisitions of shares which had the effect of raising a beneficial holding to 10 per cent or more of the capital of a bank incorporated in Australia. He also warned that the amending legislation would provide that persons may be required to divest themselves of bank shares acquired after 1st May 1970, but before the enactment of the legislation, where the effect of acquiring such shares would be to raise a shareholding to 10 per cent or more, or, in the case of any shareholding of 10 per cent or more at that date, to raise that shareholding further. At the time it was envisaged that the legislation would be in the form of an amendment to the Banking Act. However, in view of the length and technical nature of the provisions, it has been decided that a separate piece of legislation would be preferable. 
Subject to certain transitional provisions, the Bill limits the nominal value of voting shares of an authorised bank incorporated in Australia in which a person, including a corporation, may have an interest to less than 10 per cent of the total nominal value of the voting shares of the bank, unless the Treasurer has fixed a higher percentage for that person. Where the Treasurer has fixed a higher percentage for a person, the Bill provides that the person's interest in shares of the bank concerned shall not exceed that percentage. Under the transitional provisions of the Bill, a person who had an interest in the shares of a bank amounting to 10 per cent or more at 1st May 1970, and who still retains that interest at the date on which the legislation comes into operation, will be permitted to hold such interests, subject to his compliance with certain notification requirements. Where the interest of a person subject to the transitional provisions has fallen between 1st May 1970 and the commencement date of the legislation, his permissible interest will be the interest held at the commencement date. The substantive provision of the Bill thus prohibits a person from being possessed of an interest in bank shares amounting to 10 per cent or more of the voting shares of a bank. This prohibition provides the support for Government policy of not allowing local interests considered unsuitable for the task, or overseas interests to acquire a stake in Australian banking through the acquisition of interests in existing banks. 
Because it is not possible to foresee what developments in the structure or ownership of banks might be desirable in the future, the Bill confers on the Treasurer a discretionary power to allow a person to have an interest of 10 per cent or more in a bank. This is a permissive power and is not one intended to frustrate desirable changes. Without this discretionary power, the Bill would preclude the possibility of major changes in the Australian shareholdings of a bank in all circumstances: This is not the intention of the Bill. There could be sound reasons in some cases for authorising substantial shareholdings. For example, at the present time, the private savings banks are wholly-owned by their parent trading banks and it would be unreasonable not to provide for similar situations arising again in the future. Moreover, the recent merger of the ANZ and ES&amp;A banks involved a change of ownership of the combined savings bank subsidiary and without the proposed discretionary power a merger of this kind in the future could be frustrated or at least impeded. 
Limitation of shareholdings to some maximum arbitrary percentage in all circumstances could therefore be unreasonable and undesirable. The Bill does provide, however, for the Government to have an opportunity to consider specific applications. Any interests seeking to acquire a controlling stake in a bank would need to demonstrate, for instance, that the acquisition would not be contrary to the national interest. It should be emphasised that the discretionary power in this Bill is m effect an extension of the discretionary power which exists in the Banking Act for granting authority to set up a new bank in Australia. If the legislation had been in the form of an amendment of the Banking Act, as it might have been, rather than a separate Bill, this relationship would have been readily apparent. 
I turn now to the specific provisions of the Bill. The Bill draws upon other recent laws relating to shareholdings in companies, with appropriate modifications to suit the purposes of this Bill. For example, with minor modification, clause 8 'interests in shares' follows the definition of interests in shares in the provisions included in the Australian Capital Territory Companies Ordinance 1971 at the recommendation of the Eggleston Committee to require the disclosure of substantial shareholdings in certain Australian Capital Territory companies. Clause 4 extends the obligation to comply with the Bill to all natural persons, resident in Australia or not, and to all bodies corporate, whether incorporated or carrying on business in Australia or not. Clause 5 extends the operation of the Bill to cover acts done or omitted to be done outside Australia. By virtue of the definition of 'bank' in clause 6, the Bill applies only to interests in shares in banks incorporated in Australia. This has been found necessary for legal reasons since the Commonwealth's powers could not extend to interests in shares of a company incorporated overseas. 
A person's interest in the shares of a bank is widely defined in clause 8 to include interests in the shares held on his behalf by, or controlled through, associated persons or nominees. The definition is designed to cover situations where an interest in shares might be acquired which would enable a single individual or corporation, or a group, to control or influence the policies of a bank, or where the right to control the voting power of a share is exercised through intermediaries, for example, through a subsidiary company standing between the ultimate beneficial holder and the registered shareholders. Clause 9 extends the scope of a person's interest by providing that a person is to be deemed to have an interest in shares in which an associated person, as defined in that clause, has an interest. 
I have already explained the substantive provisions of the Bill limiting the holding of interests in the voting shares of a bank incorporated in Australia. These are contained in clause 10, which also empowers the Treasurer to vary or revoke a percentage fixed under that clause. As the holding of substantial interests in bank shares is a matter of public interest, there is also provision for the various instruments by which the Treasurer fixes, varies or revokes a percentage under this clause to be published in the Gazette. 
I have also referred to the transitional provisions which are included in clause 1 1 of the Bill. These provisions protect any substantial interests held in shares of the banks concerned as at 1st May 1970. To bring such holdings under notice, the persons concerned are required to give the Treasurer within 3 months of the commencement date, or such further period as the Treasurer allows, full particulars of their interests in the relevant bank shares as at 1st May 1970 and the commencement date of the legislation. The Treasurer is empowered to vary the percentage applicable to a person under the transitional provisions provided the percentage is not reduced below the person's interest at the date of the variation. 
Clause 12 provides that where a person fails to comply with the substantive provisions of clause 10, a Supreme Court may, on the application of the Treasurer, make one or more orders of the kind set out in that clause. These include an order restraining the exercise of voting rights attached to the bank shares, or directing the sale of all or any of the shares, in which the person concerned has an interest. Before making an order the court must satisfy itself so far as it can reasonably do so, that the order would not unfairly prejudice any person. The court may not make an order, other than an order restraining the exercise of voting rights, if it is satisfied that failure to comply with clause 10 was due to the person's inadvertence, mistake or ignorance and that, in all the circumstances, the failure ought lo be excused. The Supreme Court of each State is vested with Federal jurisdiction for the purposes of this clause. 
Clause 13 provides a person with a defence to a prosecution, in the event of failure to comply with the provisions of the Bill limiting the possession of interests in bank shares being due to ignorance of a relevant fact or occurrence. To protect persons selling shares, clause 14 provides that where a transaction in bank shares has led to a contravention of the provisions of the Bill the transaction shall not be unenforceable, voidable or void for that reason alone. Clause 15 invests State courts with Federal jurisdiction with respect to offences against the provisions of the Bill irrespective of where the offence is committed, and invests courts of the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory with jurisdiction with respect to offences committed in the respective Territories. Clause 16 provides that proceedings for an offence shall not be instituted without the written consent of the Treasurer. 1 commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by Senior Poke) adjourned. 
(12.33)- I move: 
That the Bill be now read  a  second time. 
This Bill seeks the approval of Parliament to amend the Western Australia (Southwest Region Water Supplies) Agreement Act of 1965, to raise the upper limit on the Commonwealth's financial assistance payable under the Act from Si 0.5m to SI 2m. The Commonwealth is providing financial assistance under this Act up to SI 0.5m on a dollar for dollar basis with State expenditure to accelerate extensions to the comprehensive water supply scheme in the south-west of Western Australia. The Commonwelath assistance is by way of loans repayable over 15 years, at the long-term bond rate operating when the money is advanced. The purpose of the scheme is to provide water for stock and domestic purposes lo new areas aggregating about 4 million acres. The Commonwealth contribution under the present Act is available over the period of 8 years from 1965-66 to 1972-73 inclusive. At 30th June 1971, $9,842,000 had been paid to the State. 
The revised cost of the works to which the Commonwealth is contributing is now estimated at approximately $24m, compared with the estimate of $21m made at the time the Commonwealth agreed to assist the scheme. It is proposed that the Commonwealth should share with the State the increase in cost, thus preserving the dollar for dollar basis of assistance under the present Act. Accordingly, the maximum amount of Commonwealth assistance payable will be raised to SI 2m. The terms on which this additional assistance will be available are identical with those under the present Act. In view of the proposal contained in this Bill to provide an additional amount of up to $1.5m over the remaining 2 years of currency of the Act, an amount of $1,950,000 has been provided in the Estimates in the current financial year. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Cant)  adjourned. 
(12.35)- I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
Three Bills were assented to on 6th October 1971 to give effect to the decision to transfer pay-roll tax to the States. The purpose of this Bill is to enable Commonwealth authorities that have in the past been subject to Commonwealth pay-roll tax to be made liable for Stale pay-roll tax. It is considered that these authorities should not be relieved of their liability to pay-roll tax by virtue of the fact that this tax is being transferred from the Commonwealth to the States. 
The Bill does not itself make the authorities to which it applies liable to pay State pay-roll tax. lt merely removes the barrier to payment of State pay-roll tax that exists in the constituting legislation of a number of Commonwealth authorities. Some 14 Commonwealth authorities will be affected by the Bill. There is, however, a number of other Commonwealth authorities which will also be liable to State payroll tax, but in respect of which no Commonwealth legislation is necessary because their constituting legislation contains no barrier to the imposition of the tax by the States. A list of Commonwealth authorities in both these categories is attached to copies of the speech I am making now. and I shall seek to have it incorporated in Hansard. 
It is proposed that the Bill come into operation on 1st September 1971, which is the date of commencement of the pay-roll Tax (Termination of Commonwealth Tax) Act 1971. I commend the Bill to the Senate. I seek leave of the Senate to incorporate in Hansard the list of Commonwealth authorities to which I have referred. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 
COMMONWEALTH AUTHORITIES WHICH HAVE BEEN SUBJECT TO COMMONWEALTH PAY-ROLL TAX AND WHICH WILL BE LIABLE TO STATE PAY-ROLL TAX 
. Authorities to which the Pay-Roll Tax (State Taxation of Commonwealth Authorities) Bill applies 
Australian Canned Fruits Board 
Australian Coastal Shipping Commission. 
Australian Dried Fruits Control Board 
Australian Honey Board 
Australian Meat Board 
Australian Tobacco Board 
Australian Wool Board 
Australian Wool Commission 
Commonwealth Banking Corporation 
Commonwealth Scrum Laboratories Commission 
Export Payments Insurance Corporation 
Housing Loans Insurance Corporation 
Reserve Bank of Australia 
Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Authority 
Incorporating the 3 constituent banks: 
Commonwealth Development Bank of Australia; 
 Commonwealth Savings Bank of Australia; and 
Commonwealth Trading Bank of Australia. 
Authorities to which the Pay-roll Tax (State Taxation of Commonwealth Authorities) Bill 1971 docs not apply 
Australian Apple and Pear Board 
Australian Capital Territory Electricity Authority 
Australian Capital Territory Totalisator Agency Board 
Australian Dairy Produce Board 
Australian Egg Board 
Australian Industry Development Corporation 
Australian National Airlines Commission 
Australian National University 
Australian Services Canteens Organisation 
Australian Wheat Board 
Australian Wine Board 
Canberra College of Advanced Education 
Canberra Theatre Trust 
Overseas Telecommunications Commission 
Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation 
Trustees of the Services Canteens Trust Fund  (Note - Some of the above authorities operate  in the A.C.T. only, and would not in fact pay State pay-roll tax unless they were also registered as employers under State pay-roll tax legislation). 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Wilkinson)  adjourned. 
by leave  -  I wish to inform the Senate that the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  left Australia on 30th October to lead the Australian delegation to the Sixteenth Session of the conference in Rome of the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organisation. He is expected to return to Australia at the end of November. During his absence the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon)  will be the Acting Minister for Primary Industry. 
The Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  left Australia on 29th October to represent the Australian Government at the inauguration of  President  Thieu in Saigon.  Mr Bowen  is expected to return to Australia tomorrow. During his absence the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  will be the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs. 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That, unless otherwise ordered, the days and times of meetings of the Senate for the remainder of the present period of sittings be as follows: 
Tuesdays, 2.30 p.m. to 6 p.m., 8 p.m. to 11 p.m. 
Wednesdays, 2.30 p.m. to 6 p.m., 8 p.m. to 11 p.m. 
Thursdays, 10.30 a.m. to 1 p.m., 2.15 p.m. to 6 p.m. 8 p.m. to 11 p.m. 
That, unless otherwise ordered, the sessional order relating to the adjournment of the Senate have effect at the terminating time each day. 
I also give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That, unless otherwise ordered. Government Business take precedence over General Business on Thursday nights after 8 p.m. for the remainder of the present period of sittings. 
Pursuant to section 44 of the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories Act 1961- 1970 I present the tenth annual report of the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories Commission for the year ended 30th June 1971, together with financial statements and the Auditor-General's report on those statements. 
Before moving the motion for the adjournment of the Senate I inform honourable senators of the passing of  Mr William  Heatley who had been a senator in this place. Ex-senator William Clarence Heatley was a man of many parts. In his time he had been a jackeroo, a timber executive, a sheep and cattle station proprietor and a decorated soldier. He was a director of a prawn trawling company and was notable as a senator from Queensland. As a member of the forces he started at the bottom and ended his service as a captain. There was not much that Bill Heatley did not put his hand to during his life, and he was successful in whatever job he undertook. 
Bill Heatley was educated at All Souls College at Charters Towers, at Townsville Grammar School and at the Southport School. During his war service he saw action in Tobruk, Syria, El Alamein and New Guinea. He was wounded in action and was mentioned in dispatches. On 14th April 1966, following the death of the late  Senator Sherrington,  he was appointed to the Senate for Queensland by the GovernorGeneral under section 15 of the Constitution. He quickly made his mark in this chamber and became a member of the Senate Select Committee on Offshore Petroleum Resources from 19th December 1967 until his defeat in June 1968.  His  absence from politics was short as he soon became a member of the Parliament of Queensland. After gaining pre-selection he entered and won a three-cornered byelection contest following the death of  Mr Carey,  the member for the electorate of Albert. 
Those of us in this place who were privileged to work alongside the late Bill Heatley are aware that his far-reaching experience enabled him to bring to the chamber a quite distinctive flair and style. I am sure that all honourable senators would wish to join with the Premier of Queensland, his fellow Queensland parliamentarians and indeed the people of Queensland in extending sympathy to  Mrs Heatley  and her 4 children. 
I take this opportunity also to say to  Senator Mulvihill  thai we are all sad for him at the loss of his mother. She was an elderly lady. This is a bereavement that we all have to endure at some time or other. The loss of a mother is particularly sad because she is the one to whom we all looked for love and comfort in our earlier years. I am sure  1  speak on behalf of all senators when I say that we extend our sincere sympathy to  Senator Mulvihill. 
(4.42)  -  I want to say first that when  Senator Byrne  rose to move his urgency motion a number of senators on this side of the chamber also rose in order to make up the number required for him to proceed with his motion. Whilst it is true that the honourable senator has moved his motion to enable the discussion of the matter with which it deals, he used words which I am sure he did not intend to use. Those words suggested that the honourable senators on this side of the chamber who rose to support him were in fact supporting the views that he has put on behalf of his Party. The fact is that honourable senators on this side of the chamber stood as an act of courtesy, just as I would have risen in my place in order to enable  Senator Byrne  to debate the subject he has raised. It is true that his motion will enable discussion of 2 historic events that have occurred this year. They are probably the most significant occurrences in our lifetime and they have occurred close together. I refer to the entry of Great Britain into the European Economic Community and to the decision of the United Nations to admit the People's Republic of China and to allow it a seat in the Security Council. 1 feel bound to say that I question the use of an urgency motion as a vehicle for raising these two subjects. 1 particularly question that practice because  Senator Byrne  in his speech also raised the matter of the expanded Russian naval strength in the Pacific. The Standing Orders limit discussion on an urgency motion to 3 hours.  Senator Byrne,  as the mover of the motion, was allowed half an hour to speak to it. I perhaps would advocate a little less than that. However, it is certain that honourable senators who want to speak in the debate will be limited to a very short time. An urgency motion does not appeal to me as  vehicle by which to discuss these matters. Of course,  Senator Byrne  may well say that he wanted to make these points or that his Party wanted to make them and that the forms of the Senate were open for him to do so. 1 also challenge the way in which  Senator Byrne  has correlated the 2 matters. By implication they are correlated and tied to the Australian defence and security. I cannot accept that. I hope briefly to bring argument to bear as to why the Senate should not agree to discuss the 2 matters which are of such tremendous importance and which are probably the 2 most significant things that have happened so close together in our lifetime. I find it difficult to accept the proposition that the 2 events are tied necessarily to the defence of Australia in the sense that the honourable senator has put them. 
I would like to deal quickly with the vote that was taken to decide whether the United Kingdom would join the European Economic Community.  Senator Byrne  indicated that he had been to the Council of Europe. I have also been to the Council.  Senator Byrne  and I were able to go to Brussels and express our views to people who belong to both sides of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. We were able to get a very good impression of the arguments for and against Britain's entry. I think it is fair to say that Australia did not seek to influence the British Government on whether it should or should not join the European Economic Community. The view has always been expressed that this was a judgment that Britain itself had to make. By a vote in the House of Commons in recent days Britain has taken the step to join the Community. 
Australia has always made well known to the British Government the problems that would arise for our trading interests if reasonable conditions were not provided to safeguard them in the terms of entry. 1 do not think that this point needs to be argued because it is not particularly germane to the debate. But Australia did emphasise, and has emphasised, that there will need to be a known transitional or access period during which our trading relations with the United Kingdom will be given special consideration. We have told the United Kingdom Government that we need a transitional period in which to adjust to the new situation inherent in that country's entry. Indeed, the United KingdomAustralia Trade Agreement will need to be phased out over a period so that the Agreement can be terminated without hindrance or hurt to Australia or Britain. I think it is fair also to say that the Australian Government at this point of time has been disappointed by the lack of precise provisions in the phasing out programme over the transitional period. But there it is. 
With that background I want to come to the context of the matter of urgency motion, which says that the entry of Britain into the European Economic Community and the vote taken in the United Nations on Communist China's admission to that body are linked to the defence of Australia. I suppose it is possible to say that the entry by Britain into the EEC could lead in time to that country becoming almost, to use the word, Eurocentric in political as well as strictly economic matters. But I do not believe and cannot accept that. I do not believe that that unhappy state of affairs is likely to happen. For one thing, Britain's leaders are well aware of the disadvantages of a selfinterested and introverted Europe. They will work, I am sure, from within the Community - that is the whole Community - to ensure that it becomes more outward looking. I think that this is of the very essence of the intention of the bloc. 1 do not think that the EEC, as has been suggested, will be inward looking. I believe that it will not operate in isolation or that - and reference was made to this point - it will follow a Monroe Doctrine concept. I do not believe that those who are in the EEC believe this, either. 

I know, but you are implying that Europe will tend to adopt a Monroe Doctrine concept and I do not believe that it will, lt will be a task for Australian diplomacy in the broadest meaning of the word to encourage Britain to see that this does not happen, and to suggest that other big trading countries of the world such as the United States and Japan should work towards the same objective and will not become - and I believe this to be so - introverted or inward. 
The second point is that Britain's entry into the European Economic Community will by no means spell the end of her political, commercial, investment and defence interests in the rest of the world. Britain has a very large economic stake in our part of the world. She is still a very real customer of this country. I gather that she is not now our leading customer although she was at one time but if she is not, she is possibly our best customer once removed. As I have said, the United Kingdom has a very large economic stake in Australia, as indeed she has in some of our neighbours such as Malaysia and Singapore. Therefore, as we see it in terms of self share interest she will not become isolated in Europe by her entry. She cannot afford to become isolated and neglect those interests which she has in the rest of the world or stand idly by if they are seriously threatened. I do not believe it. This point was inherent in the subject under discussion. 
Only this week Britain has given an earnest of her continuing interest in the security and stability of this part of the world. This assurance has been given this week when we are discussing the proposition that she may move away from us and prejudice our defence. I refer to the Five Power Defence Arrangements which came into effect on 1st November. It is significant that the Arrangements came into effect after the date on which the United Kingdom Government decided by resolution of the Mother of Parliaments after the drama of a vote to go into the European Economic Community. I repeat that the announcement regarding the Five Power Defence Arrangements was made after and not before Britain's decision to enter the EEC. 
Honourable senators will be aware that the governments which make up the Five Power Defence Arrangements - Australia, Britain, Malaysia, New Zealand and Singapore - have expressed their intention of continuing to co-operate closely in defence matters. Also, they have declared that: 'In the event of any form of armed attack externally organised or supported, or the threat of such attack, against Malaysia or Singapore', they will 'immediately consult together for the purpose of deciding what measures should be taken jointly or separately in relation to such attack or threat'. Therefore, Britain is not moving out of this part of the world. A reference was made to the effect that a British presence is now 12,000 miles away. I suggest, bearing in mind what has been set out in the Five Power Defence Arrangements, that the closest British presence is not moving 12,000 miles away but is continuing to stay in our part of the world. 
The 5 governments also have set up an air defence council which is responsible for the functioning of the integrated air defence system, and a joint consultative council. I have made that point in response to the arguments advanced by  Senator Byrne.  I want to go further and remind the Senate that Britain has retained forces of all arms in Malaysia-Singapore. These forces are grouped with Australian and New Zealand forces stationed in those countries into an integrated ANZUK command. The first series of points made by  Senator Byrne  can be evaluated against the points which I have advanced. Of course, it is true that Britain's forces in MalaysiaSingapore have been phased out in recent years. I would not walk away from that fact. It is also true that the AngloMalaysian Defence Treaty has been terminated. But the Five Power arrangements are the clearest possible evidence that Britain's interest in and concern about the security and stability of this part of the world continue unaffected by its decision to join the EEC. It should be pointed out also that Britain's membership of the Manila Treaty and her participation in the South East Asia Treaty Organisation both continue. In short, while Britain has contracted somewhat her security commitments and responsibilities in South East Asia - I do not argue that she has contracted them - this has not been done because of the decision to join the European Economic Community. This is a contraction, as I admit, but it is not by any means a total withdrawal, and it is not linked to Britain's entry into the EEC. 

This has been a matter of discussion for a very long time. Britain's participation in the Five Power arrangements and in SEATO is proof enough. There is no reason to suppose that joining the EEC will affect Britain's considerations of national interest underlying that participation and Britain's security ties with Australia. That is my response to the first section of the matter of public importance proposed for discussion by  Senator Byrne.  That section refers to: 
The implications for Australian defence and security. . . . 
Two points are made with respect to Australia's defence and security. The first concerns Britain's decision to enter the European Economic Community and the second concerns the implications of the decision of the United Nations to seat the People's Republic of China in the General Assembly and the Security Council of the United Nations. I turn now to that second element, namely, the decision of the United Nations to seat the People's Republic of China. 
In this abridged debate I do not wish to take all of my time. It is not wise or desirable for me to traverse detail by detail the various resolutions that were put. Some of these resolutions were rejected; some were ruled out of order; and some were voted on in the United Nations debate. I have attempted to come to the substance of this matter rather than to traverse the various resolutions that were carried at the United Nations. The debate, be it known, ended with the passage of what we know as the Albanian resolution. The Albanian resolution brought the People's Republic of China into the United Nations with a seat on the Security Council and led to the simultaneous expulsion of the Republic of China which- 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI am coming to that. Inherent in that resolution was not only the entry of Mainland China but also the expulsion of Taiwan. But Taiwan's representatives walked out before that happened. The true position is that the Albanian resolution provided for the expulsion of the Republic of China on Taiwan, but Taiwan's representatives walked out before that resolution was passed. I wish to let it be known that the Austraiian Government voted with 34 other nations against the expulsion of the Republic of China. I will not name all of those 34 nations, but those which have special significance for us included the United States of America, Japan- 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONAs I understand it Indonesia abstained. But the countries of the 34 that I wish to name are the United States of America, Japan and New Zealand. In addition to the 3.5 votes against Taiwan's expulsion, 17 nations abstained. I emphasise that Australia made its position clear: It supported the entry of the People's Republic of China - that is, Mainland China - to the General Assembly and the Security Council. That is the critical point. 
The other substantive resolution, known as the dual representation draft resolution, was co-sponsored by 18 member states including Australia, Japan, New Zealand, the Philippines, Thailand and the United States. The point that I wish to bring out is that this dual representation draft resolution affirmed the right of representation of the People's Republic of China, recommended that the PRC be seated as one of the 5 permanent members of the Security Council and affirmed the continuing right of representation of the Republic of China - Taiwan. Australia's position has been made abundantly clear. I have paraphrased the whole series of resolutions involved. If we examine those that were withdrawn and those that were debated, the position is confusing. I have had the advantage of the advice of the Department of Foreign Affairs which has assured me that what 1 have said is a fair appreciation of what happened. On 21st October 1971, in addressing the United Nations General Assembly, the Australian representative,  Sir Laurence  Mclntyre, noted that the great majority of representatives supported the representation of the People's Republic of China. 
Following what 1 am bound to admit has been an abridged summary of the events in the United Nations, we can reflect upon the second part of the matter of public importance proposed by  Senator Byrne  and say that we hope that when it takes its seat in the General Assembly and in the Security Council, Mainland China will adopt constructive and moderate policies and positions. The membership of the PRC in the United Nations will remove its isolation - this is the critical thing - from the world community and will bring it into contacts with the whole community of nations. This is the first answer to challenge the views expressed by  Senator Byrne.  The entry of Mainland China into the United Nations will remove it from its isolated position and will bring it into much closer contact with the community of nations, particularly those which arc members of the United Nations. Our policies, as demonstrated at the United Nations and by our vote, reflect a careful assessment of our national interests and objectives. O'ur step was considered in close consultation with our friends and our allies. 
Reference was made by  Senator Byrne  lo the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  and to a statement that was made yesterday.  Senator Byrne  very properly was careful to qualify his remarks with the words 'as reported'. I would suggest- 
1 think that it would be fair to say -  Senator Byrne  would say this - that we would need to see the whole matter in its context before making very stern judgments on it. But from what I saw of the statement, it indeed reflected the views that the Prime Minister and the Government have expressed, not as late as yesterday but over the whole period of the last 6 to 8 months during which this question of the proposed entry of Mainland China into the United Nations has arisen and has been under constant examination. I say that, because I feel that when this matter is studied in its full context that fact will emerge. 
It is true that, in the Security Council, the People's Republic of China will have the power of veto. But that power is in the hands also of other permanent members including our close friends, Britain and the United States. So, Mainland China's seat on the Security Council is not something which gives it great power in isolation. The General Assembly, in which the People's Republic of China will have a place also, has the power of recommendation only. The recommendations of the General Assembly do not have any binding force. 
The Charter of the United Nations recognises the right of members to join together in regional arrangements. The seating of the PRC in no way affects the existing regional arrangements of which Australia is a member. Another point that I wish to make in this respect is that the entry of the PRC into the United Nations will in no way alter or make any less effective the, ANZUS Treaty. Reference was made by  Senator Byrne  in his comments to the ANZUS Treaty. The entry of the People's Republic of China to the United Nations will not in any way affect the ANZUS Treaty. Today I saw a Press report of the meeting between  President  Nixon and the Prime Minister. According to the report  President  Nixon said: 
I was glad to restate our past support of our commitment to the ANZUS Treaty. 
He added that he believed the Treaty emphasised the American commitment to the area and that it was fundamental to peace in the Pacific. He was also reported to have said that ANZUS is one of the fundamental pillars of American policy in the Pacific. 
I want to make a point about what I believe is a judgment implicit in the subject of this urgency discussion; that is that the entry of the People's Republic of China to the United Nations is going to prejudice our defence. Perhaps that is putting it even milder than  Senator Byrne  put it. However. that is not the judgment that I express. As Australians we are sad and sorry that we failed to retain the place of the Republic of China, Taiwan, in the United Nations while at the same time we supported the admittance of the People's Republic of China. Australia's view always was that there should be a place in the United Nations for the Republic of China. But we need to look forward, not backward. The world is moving rapidly. Changes and adjustments must be made and are being made. The world situation is evolving constantly. These adjustments are as significant in our part of the world as elsewhere. 1 agree with what  Senator Byrne  said to that extent. It could well be that things are changing more quickly in our part of the world than elsewhere, perhaps with the exception of the European Economic Community. 
The Government welcomed  President  Nixon's announcement that he would visit the People's Republic of China. That visit is in accordance with our previously declared policy of seeking to improve relations with those people and this represents an attempt to do that. It has been our stated hope that the People's Republic of China will come to play a more constructive role in this region. We hope that the People's Republic of China will come into the group of nations as distinct from being isolated from them as it has been in the past; that it will play a more constructive role in the region than it has in the past; and that its admission to the United Nations will advance prospects for a peaceful settlement of the problems of the Asian and Pacific region. That is our hope and belief and that is the way we have to look at this matter. 
I listened very carefully to  Senator Byrne  because I have a great respect for his understanding of these matters. He and I travelled together to Europe to attend the Council of Europe. I led the Australian delegation. We had the opportunity to talk to parliamentarians from the United Kingdom and from other nations that are members of the European Economic Community. I obtained the clear impression while there that although the United Kingdom desired to enter the Community it was not .coins to enter a closed shop, as it were, but that it was going to make a real contribution to the defence of Europe. I think  Senator Byrne  acknowledged that point. He went on to say that Britain will not go beyond. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONYes. I accept what  Senator Byrne  said in the first part. On both sides, the protagonists there- 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSON Let me make my point,  Senator Little.  You can speak afterwards. The clear view was expressed that Britain's entry into the European Economic Community would strengthen the defence of Europe but never at any stage was it suggested in the United Kingdom - rather it was to the contrary - by those for and against Britain's entry that Britain's ties with the Commonwealth ultimately would be given up; that its entry would mean separation from those ties of blood and brotherhood with Commonwealth countries such as Australia and New Zealand. So I say that I cannot accept the view that there will be a threat to our defence as a consequence of Britain's entry to the European Economic Community. I am prepared to accept in respect of the second part of the topic of discussion that the entry of the People's Republic of China to the United Nations will bring home to the Chinese all the responsibilities of membership of that body. In that way I hope and pray, as I know we all do, that as a consequence the danger to defence and security in the Pacific will be lessened rather than increased. 
(2.49)- I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
Since this matter will not be debated until next week I ask leave to incorporate the second reading speech in Hansard. 
I wish to inform the Senate that the Minister for Repatriation,  (Mr Holten)  is leaving Australia this afternoon to open an  industrial  trade display in Singapore on 8th November. He is expected  to return to  Australia on 10th November. During  his  absence the Minister  for  National Development  (Mr Swartz)  will act as the Minister for Repatriation. 
(2.46) -I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I ask leave to incorporate the second reading speech in Hansard. 
(2.45) -I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the Bill being passed through all its stages without delay. 
(2.52)  -  I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
As this matter will not be dealt with until next week 1 ask leave to incorporate  the  second reading speech in Hansard. 
(12.22) - I move: 
That, unless otherwise ordered, the days and times of meeting of the Senate for the remainder of the present period of sittings bc as follows: 

<graphic href="050232197111040_17_0.jpg"></graphic>

That, unless otherwise ordered, the Sessional Order relating to the adjournment of the Senate have effect at the terminating time each day. 
I also move: 
That, unless otherwise ordered Government Business take precedence over General Business on Thursday nights after 8 p.m. for the remainder of the present period of sitting. 
I suggest that with the concurrence of the Senate, the 2 motions be debated together,  Mr President. 

If  Senator Cavanagh  does not approve of that course being adopted, I will deal with them separately. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONYeS 
The first motion relates to the days and hours of meeting for the remainder of this sitting. 1 do not think it is necessary for me to spell out the proposal because honourable senators have the details in front of them. The purpose of this motion is to gain further lime on any given day for the consideration of Government Business, he second motion relates, to Government Business taking precedence over General Business on a Thursday evening. 
I shall be very brief in my remarks on these motions because we have been through this exercise be/ore. To my knowledge this practice has been followed in every session during the 18 years I have been a member of this chamber. It has been predicted that the Parliament may rise on or about 9th December. During the period between now and that date the Government will be either introducing into or bringing to the Senate Bills for its consideration, lt is notable that more Bills have flowed through to this chamber early in these sittings. The Government has deliberately kept the Bills flowing in order to allow the Parliament better to conduct its affairs. During the last sessional period the Senate sat for 7 days after the other place rose. As it is anticipated that the other place will rise on 9th December, I think it is obvious that unless the Senate keeps reasonably close to the workload of the other place it will be confronted with the necessity to continue to sit at a time during which honourable senators are required to attend to constituency matters and problems associated with their occupation as members of the Parliament. What I am saying is that in the interests of the Senate, in the interests of the management of the Senate, in the interests of the conduct of the Parliament and out of consideration for senators - not only me and other Ministers, but indeed every senator - we should bite on the bullet, in terms of our sitting times, and try to keep abreast of the flow of work coming before us during this period of sittings. 
For this reason I suggest that we should make extra time available by adopting the sitting times 1 have suggested. It is significant that I have not suggested that we should sit beyond 11 o'clock at night. 1 subscribe to a view, which I know is held by an overwhelming number of senators, and if it looks like becoming a matter of sitting into the wee hours of the morning, for my part and for the Government's part the Senate will sit not in the wee hours of the morning but on the next sitting day. I take that view because I do not believe in legislation by exhaustion. We as a Senate have a role to consider everything as carefully and deliberately as we can. So, although at a certain stage in the absolutely extreme case, I may ask the Senate for its co-operation in sitting a little beyond 1 1 o'clock to complete, perhaps, a Bill which we are debating, the fundamental approach that I, my fellow Ministers and others who sit behind me will adopt will be not to have extended sittings into the early hours of the morning. Let us try to meet the situation by starting earlier - not extremely early, but at about the same time as the other place starts - reducing our luncheon break by perhaps IS minutes and making certain that we use our time effectively. That is the first part of my proposition. 
As for Government Business taking precedence after 8 o'clock on Thursday nights, I am very conscious of the rights of honourable senators in relation to General Business. Whilst I am proposing that Government Business should take precedence after 8 o'clock on Thursday nights, I am aware, as I mentioned to the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  this morning and to  Senator Byrne  in discussion yesterday, that there are on the business paper under General Business certain matters which I, as Leader of the Government, will have to recognise and make provision for before the Senate rises. In the interests of the management of the Senate I want Government Business to have precedence after 8 o'clock on Thursday nights. That would facilitate the management of the Senate and enable us to deal with legislation. It would be in the best interests of us all to make more time available to ourselves in order to carry out our function, and inherent in that is an adoption by the Senate of my proposal that we deal with 
Government Business after 8 o'clock on. Thursday nights. I put this suggestion to the Senate in good faith and I leave the decision to the will of the Senate. 
(2.55) - I move: 
That  the Bill be now  read a  second time. 
This Bill seeks the approval of Parliament to a borrowing by the Commonwealth of $US1 1,310,400 ($Al0.lm) from the Export-Import Bank of the UnitedStates and the Boeing Company, and to an appropriation of the Loan Fund of an amount not exceeding $A13, 150,000, to assist Qantas Airways Limited in financing the purchase of not more than 2 Boeing 747 jet aircraft and related equipment, spare parts and services. The Bill also contains a minor amendment to the Loan (Qantas Airways Limited) Act 1968. 
The loan agreement with the ExportImport Bank and Boeing appears as the First Schedule to the Bill. The proceeds of this loan will assist Qantas in financing the purchase of a fifth Boeing 747 aircraft and related equipment, spare parts and services estimated to cost in all $US29.3m ($A25.7m). Honourable senators will recall that the Commonwealth has arranged loans totalling $USl13m ($99.1m) to assist Qantas in financing the purchase of its first 4 Boeing 747 aircraft. These loans were approved by the Loan (Qantas Airways Limited) Act 1968 and the Loans (Qantas Airways Limited) Act 1971. 
The general arrangements for this borrowing from the Export-Import Bank and 
Boeing arc similar to those approved by Parliament for other loans for Qantas and Trans-Australia Airlines in recent years. The Commonwealth will be the borrower in the first instance, and the full proceeds of the loan will be made available to Qantas on terms and conditions to be determined by the Treasurer pursuant to clause  7  of the Bill. These terms and conditions will be the same as those under which the Commonwealth itself borrows the money. As the airline will be required to meet all charges under the loan agreement, the Commonwealth will, as usual, assume the function of an intermediary in these arrangements. 
Drawings on the loan will commence as soon as the legislation has been enacted and the bulk of the funds will be drawn in September 1972, when the aircraft is due for delivery. In accordance with normal lending practice in the United States, a commitment fee of one-half of 1 per cent per annum is to be paid on the undrawn amount of the Export-Import Bank loan. The Export-Import Bank loan is to be repaid in 7 semi-annual instalments commencing 15th November 1979. The Boeing loan is repayable in 4 semi-annual instalments commencing 15th May 1978. Interest on the Export-Import Bank loan will be at 6 per cent. Interest on the major part of the Boeing loan will be at 6 per cent with the balance at 6 per cent. The terms and conditions of the loan have been approved by the Australian Loan Council. 
It will be noted by honourable senators that the agreement with the Export-Import Bank and Boeing does not contain a provision headed 'Special Representations, Warranties and Covenants'. Such a provision appeared in the agreement with the Export-Import Bank shown as the First Schedule to the Loans (Qantas Airways Limited) Act 1971. Following criticism of this provision by honourable senators representations were made, successfully, to the Export-Import Bank for its deletion. However, the Export-Import Bank has asked for a letter from Qantas stating that it is not Qantas' present intention to use the aircraft principally in a Communist country (as defined in section 620 (f) of the United States Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended). I take this opportunity of tabling the text of this letter for the information of honourable senators. 
As I have already mentioned, the other main purpose of this Bill is to appropriate loan fund by an amount not exceeding SA13, 150,000 to assist Qantas in financing the purchase of a fifth and sixth Boeing 747 aircraft and related equipment. This amount represents the Australian currency proceeds of a recent public bond issue by the Commonwealth in Europe of 15 million European units of account equivalent to $US15m. As this loan was the subject of Press statements by the Treasurer dated 20th July 1971 and 5th August 1971, I do not propose to dwell on the mechanics of this issue, except to say that it offers the borrower a considerable degree of protection against currency revaluations. Briefly, the loan carries an interest rate of 8 per cent and was issued at 991 per cent, with repayment over 15 years. The repayment provisions give an average life of approximately l Ot years. The terms and conditions of the loan were approved by the Australian Loan Council. The terms and conditions on which the Commonwealth will lend the proceeds of this loan to Qantas provide that Qantas will pay to the Commonwealth sufficient funds to enable the Commonwealth to meet, on the due dates, interest, principal and other payments required under the Loan Agreement. The loan will therefore involve no net charge on the resources of the Commonwealth. 
As I have mentioned, part of the proceeds of the unit of account loan are intended for the purpose of assisting Qantas with the purchase of a sixth Boeing 747 aircraft estimated to cost approximately $US29m ($A25.4m). Qantas has entered into a contract with the Boeing company for the purchase of this sixth aircraft with an option to cancel delivery at any time on or before 1st July 1972. In the event of cancellation - in which case Qantas will forfeit the initial downpayment of $US60,000 already made - Qantas will apply the entire proceeds of the unit of account loan to financing the purchase of the fifth aircraft. Finally, the Bill contains a second schedule which details a minor amendment to the Loan (Qantas Airways Limited) Act 1968. The purpose of the amendment is to provide an extension from 30th November 1971 to 28th February 1972 of the final date on which drawings can be made under the Loan Agreement approved by that Act. This extension will enable Qantas to draw the loan in full.  I  commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Bishop)  adjourned. 
(3.47) - After conferring with Party Leaders, it was agreed that we would rearrange the business paper for today to enable the passage of the Supply Bill (No. 3) 1971-72. Because of the need to have a certain, amount of time available, it was agreed that the Estimates committees should not sit tonight but that we should deal with orders of the day Nos 1, 11, 12 and 14 on the notice paper. I have just received  a  message that the Supply Bill (No. 3) 1971- 72 has been passed by the other House, and I have conferred with the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Willesee).  When the message arrives in this place I want to be in a position to bring on that matter and dispose of it so that we can then deal with the other Bills. I move: 
That Government Business, orders of the day Nos 1, 11, 12 and 14 be proceeded with. 
I propose this motion on the understanding that we dispose of the Supply Bill (No. 3) 1971-72 if the message is received before we deal with these other matters. I hope the Deputy Leader of the Opposition is happy with that. 
(3.57) - I move: 
That the Bill be now read  a  second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to obtain further Supply under the Appropriations for salaries and payments in the nature of salary for all departments, for war and service pensions and allowances and for certain other services amounting to $138,215,000 and will enable these services to be met until the moneys provided in the Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 1971-72 are available. The sums sought in this Bill do not in any way reflect an increase in the amounts included for these purposes in the 1971-72 Budget. 
Additional Supply is needed for 3 reasons. Since the Supply Bill (No. 1) 1971-72 was introduced on 27th April some 19 salary determinations and awards have come into operation. Although the Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 1971-72 provides for most of these, it will be clear that the provision made in the Supply Act (No. 1) for salaries and payments in the nature of salary is inadequate. Nor will it be possible to fund all of the deficiency from the Advance to the Treasurer. Secondly, by Acts Nos 68 and 69 of 1971, Parliament increased war and service pensions and allowances by varying rates. No provision was made for these increases in the Supply Act (No. 1), nor could the requirement have reasonably been forecast in April last. An additional $ 19.5m is needed to enable these pensions and benefits to be met up to and including pension payday 9th December 1971. Thirdly, it is now necessary to extend the Supply period beyond 30th November. That was the point to which I referred earlier when I replied to  Senator Devitt.  For a number of years it has been the practice of the Parliament to grant the Government Supply for a period of 5 months, that is, to 30th November. To enable the parliamentary time-table for the passage of the Appropriation Bills to be conveniently met it is now desired to provide additional Supply for the purposes set out in the Schedule to this Bill to meet anticipated payments to 17th December. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
 May I intercede to suggest that the 2 taxation Bills be taken together in a cognate second reading stage debate. I understand that an amendment is to be moved to one of the Bills. We could deal with that separately by vote. 
The  PRESIDENT-  ls the Opposition agreeable? There being no objection, that course will be followed. 
-(New South Wales - Minister for Health) (10.18) - I thank the Senate for its general approach to the cognate debate on the Income Tax Bill 1971 and the Income Tax Assessment Bill (No. 3) 1971. I feel bound to remind the Senate that the Opposition has moved an amendment to the Income Tax Bill 1971. If this amendment were carried, it would defeat the Bill. It would be lost. It would not proceed to the Committee stage. The amendment reads: 
Leave out all words after 'That', insert - the Bill be withdrawn and redrafted because it (a) does not comprehensively restructure the rate schedule and (b) increases the tax payable by certain individuals on a flat percentage basis'. 
In fairness to  Senator Wilkinson  who led for the Opposition I should say that he said that because of its very nature the amendment inferentially means that the Opposition is moving to defeat the Bill, and therefore that the amendment should be faced up to, considered and voted upon on that basis. I thank  Senator Wilkinson, Senator Guilfoyle  and  Senator Little  for their brevity in the expressing of their views. They did not lose anything by their brevity. They made the points. I thank  Senator Guilfoyle  particularly for bringing out some of the substantive matters which are in the Bill. This means that I, as the respondent to the debate, have no necessity to enlarge upon the points which she raised. I shall advert to 2 matters in the atmosphere in which this debate is being conducted. It is the purpose and desire of the Opposition to defeat the Bill because of a flat increase in additional levy. I shall make some reference to the increase in company tax rates. I shall deal with the last item first. 
I think there is an implication that in relation to company tax something has been overlooked which is significant. It is true that the increase in company tax rates are confined to the rates on the first $10,000 of taxable income. Consequently the additional revenue is modest, being only $26m in a full year. But $26m is part of the budgetary considerations and this is a Budget Bill But the change is much more important than the revenue yield would indicate. I do not wish to disparage $26m in a revenue sense but a far more important matter is involved in this besides the revenue. Opportunities for a form of tax avoidance by means of company splitting will be avoided. That is the purpose of this provision. I ask honourable senators to understand that this is not an illegal avoidance. Within the Act there were legal opportunities for tax avoidance. It is calculated that those opportunities for tax avoidance will be taken away by this Bill. Because of the lower rate of tax on the first $10,000 many companies have adopted the practice of splitting into a number of separate but smaller companies purely so as to have the aggregate income taxed at the lower rate. This new provision is inserted in the Bill to stop that practice. 
This was never the intention of the tax on the lower rate but, as it happens, that is the way the previous Bill was drafted. The practice involves plain abuse of the taxation system in that sense. What we are doing now is making certain that that avenue is not open for what I have chosen to call - perhaps not in as hard a sense as it sounds - tax avoidance. By reducing opportunities for this form of action - the reduction of the differential between rates on the first $10,000 and the rest of the taxable income - we are taken towards a more sound and equitable system in relation to company tax. That is the point that I wanted to bring out. 
The other point which I wish to bring out is the method taken by the Opposition to defeat the Bill. The Opposition's criticism is that the increase in the flat rale on the additional levy is contrary to the theory of progression. I think this point needs to be examined very carefully. In any event it is rather inconsistent with the argument used' by the Opposition on previous occasions. I am not going to go to the barricades in an aggressive sense, but I merely remind the Opposition of this. I think that the claim about progression would be true if the additional levy were a flat percentage of taxable income. But of course that is not the case. The additional levy, as a flat percentage of the tax, calculated at the general rate, reflects the progression of the general rate with the result that the tax payable, including the additional levy, is neither more nor less progressive than the tax calculated at the general rate. 

The honourable senator can read this a couple of times in Hansard tomorrow and he will appreciate the point. We all have difficulties with taxation. We understand the generalities of taxation. We certainly understand taxation when we obtain our tax assessment. But when we get into the refinements it is sometimes a little awkward for us all to understand. I am no exception. But I say to honourable senators opposite that in 1959 when we had a debate on this matter of the incidence of the reduction, the argument put by the Opposition - I do not need to spell it out; I have it written in a very tight form here - was rather opposite to the approach it is now taking. I will not bother to have the amendment moved by the Opposition on that occasion incorporated in Hansard; 1 would not like to hurt anybody's feelings. 
The fact of the matter is that an amendment has been moved and I think this is the critical thing in it. We are dealing with 2 Budget Bills. We are having a cognate debate. An amendment has been circulated in relation to the Income Tax Bill. The effect of the amendment, if it were carried, would be to defeat the Bill and lose us the revenue. The Bill would go, the revenue would go. But the matter would not remain there because it would become a major matter in the constitutional situation. It would become a question of crisis. While it is natural, proper and appropriate to criticise a Budget measure because it may fall short in certain fields and might need to be enlarged in other fields, nevertheless the decision taken by the Opposition in this case to move a motion which would defeat a Budget Bill is something which I suggest is not appropriate. Clearly the purpose of the Bill is not only to make some provisions in company law to raise revenue, but equally to close certain avenues of tax avoidance. For those reasons I commend the Bill to honourable senators and ask for a speedy passage. I ask that we take the motion for the second reading, with the amendment, of the first Bill. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be left out  (Senator Wilkinson's amendment)  be left out. 
by leave - I wish to inform the Senate that the Minister for Trade and Industry,  Mr Anthony,  left Australia on 20th November to attend a meeting of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade - GATT - in Geneva. He is expected to return to Australia on 27th November. During his absence the Minister for Repatriation,  Mr Holten,  is Acting Minister for Trade and Industry. I also inform the Senate that the Minister for External Territories,  Mr Barnes,  will be in Papua New Guinea this week. 
I move: 
That Business of the Senate, notices of motion Nos 1 to 6, be postponed until the first day of silting of the Senate in 1972. 
There are 6 notices of motion before the Senate, 2 each in the names of  Senator Byrne  and  Senator Murphy,  and1 each in the names of  Senator Willesee  and  Senator Douglas  McClelland. We have in contemplation that the Senate will rise after this period of the sittings early in December. Be that as it may, we still have a very comprehensive legislative programme in front of us. I make that point as one of the considerations for moving the motion I have moved. The Senate has resolved that it has no desire - I concur completely - to sit inordinate hours, a reasonable time for rising being 11 p.m. There is an agreement which we all understand that to meet a particular situation we might transgress a little beyond that hour for a short time to dispose of a Bill or something of that nature. We have also a strong inclination not to sit on Fridays. We are in contemplation of sitting for a period of 3weeks which would take us to 9th December. A sitting of 4 weeks would take us to 16th December. Then we are getting perilously close to the Christmas period. 
In the light of that background, I now come to the overwhelming reason why I suggest it is inappropriate to deal with these 6 notices of motion during this period of sittings in 1971. I have in mind that, with the indulgence of the Senate, up to the present time, these notices of motion have been postponed on several occasions to the next day of sitting. The plain, cold, blunt fact about the various committees to which these matters are sought to be referred is that almost without exception, they already have references and work which will take them well beyond the time when we re-assemble, presumably in late February or March of next year. I am not arguing the substance or the merit of any of these references. What I am arguing is the fact that it is pointless at this time to make references to the committees because, in truth, we will be debating the merits of 6 questions which, I suggest, even if in the judgment of the Senate they were to be referred to the Committees, would not, in the nature of things, be likely to be considered by the time we return in 1972. 
In that sense,I want to give some information that I have gleaned, not in any spirit of aggression. They are the facts asI see them. The Senate Standing Committee on Health and Welfare, of which  Senator Buttfield  is the  chairman,  has before it a reference dealing with all aspects of repatriation. The Committee commenced to consider that reference in September. It also has a reference on the introduction of a national superannuation scheme. The judgment has been made  -  I have conferred with the  chairman  of the Committee - that the first reference on repatriation may well take the Committee up to the Budget session in 1972.I remind the Senate that we are now in the Budget session of 1971. It is estimated that the Committee would not be able to complete the second reference dealing with a national superannuation scheme before at least the middle or possibly the late period of 1973. That is the case in regard to one Committee. Any further references to that Committee would be made without any prospect of their receiving early consideration. 
Another committee involved is the Senate Standing Committee on Primary and Secondary Industry and Trade, the  chairman  of which is  Senator Prowse,  the  Chairman  of Committees. It has before it a petition relating to the supply of liquefied petroleum gas to the Australian market, and a reference for the promotion of trade and commerce with other countries. I think there is a very comprehensive reference to the Committee by  Senator Murphy  which in contemplation would take the Committee, it believes, probably to the Budget session of 1972. In my own modest judgment of the way in which Senate committees work, the investigation could easily go on ad infinitum having regard to the breadth and width of the reference. Nevertheless, let us assume that those references will take the Committee to late 1972. Then we come to the Senate Standing Committee onSocial Environment, of which  Senator Laucke  is  chairman.  It has before it a referenceon the continuing oversight of the problemsof pollution, notice of which was gives in March 1971. It has another reference before it dealing with the environmental conditions of Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders and the preservation of their sacred sites. The Committee holds the judgment that it has enough work to keep it going for 12 months, possibly 18 months. 
The Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs has before it a reference for the abolition of the death penalty. This is one which tomes very readily to mind. It is a special reference in relation to the Death Penalty Abolition Bill, as I understand it. Although the Committee is not clear about what time would be required, the reference in relation to discrimination against Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders certainly would be all the Committee could cope with within this series of sittings, so it would not be ready for any other references before we returned in 1972. The Senate Standing Committee on Education. Science and the Arts, of which  Senator Davidson  is the  chairman,  has before it references in regard to teacher education, and all aspects of television and broadcasting, including Australian content of television programmes. The judgment is that the Committee would not finish consideration of those references before the end of 1972. The Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations, of which  Senator Lawrie  is  chairman,  has before it a reference on the effects of estate and like duties on the public revenues and the economic circumstances of individuals and communities, and the social consequences of such duties. The estimate at the present time is that the Committee would not complete consideration of that reference until the middle of 1972. The Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, of which  Senator Sim  is  chairman,  has just started consideration of a reference on Japan. The judgment there - they are only judgments; they are not opinions - is that the Committee would not finish consideration of this reference until November 1972. What I am saying to the Senate is that the overwhelming evidence suggests that we would not be prejudicing any of the references in the names of any of the honourable senators if we stood them over to the first day of sitting in 1972, whenever it is. If that were done the effect would be that there would not be the necessity then for us to have debates on the matters of substance of these proposed references before the end of this year. Quite frankly, as I look at the position - I am expressing a personal opinion - some of the references are very good but the value of others is arguable and inevitably they would be argued. 
I come to the final point in relation to this. We have created a committee system in the Senate. Our Parliament since federation has had a form based on the mother of Parliaments. It is to the everlasting credit of the Senate - those of us who sit here - that it has created and ironed out with some differences of view as to procedures, a function for the second chamber which relates to the administration of committees. We cannot claim that we did not have committees earlier. After all,I was a member of a committee very early in my 18 years of experience in this place. The committees have all done  a  good job. 
Party politics do not enter into the considerations of the committees. That is one of the wonderful things about us here. The committees function to get facts and to produce knowledge for the good of the nation. What I want to put to the Senate with all the weight of significance that I can is that if we overload the functions of these committees, we will be setting about to destroy something that has been created in the interests of good government. 
I appreciate that difficulties exist for members of the Opposition but it is worse on this side because from our 26 senators we provide 2 Presiding Officers and 5 Ministers, thereby cutting the number eligible for committee work back to 19. In addition to the standing committees senators me required to work on the statutory committee; such as the Public Accounts Committee and the Public Works Committee, as welt as the Foreign Affairs Committee. The weigh! of work in the commitee field is reaching the stage where it is exhausting for senators, lt means that we cannot give, the effort or undertake the research lh;ti would be provided otherwise. 1 want to ensure, if I can, that we do not overload our committees without proper regard for the significance of the situation. We must avoid a tendency to weaken what h;is been created and that matter has to be looked at very seriously. That is why I have moved my motion today, regardless of what the result may be, I hope lt* '-ave the motion carried, but regardless of that, I want to emphasise the terrible dangers we will run into if we continue to refer matters to the committees which will involve them in work up to IS months or 2 years ahead. We must give them  :tn  opportunity to he more deliberative by a more selective system of reference  to  them. 
I may have spoken a little long on this matter, but I have sought to emphasise that we must not challenge the efficacy of commit lee work. I have sought to point out to honourable senators that the subjects of the references proposed will noi bc dealt with, in any event, before we return in February or March of next year. Rather than consume time in dealing with  mutters  of substance now. we could have them made orders of the day for the first day of sitting on our return. In the meantime the committees could clear their decks and would be in a better position for deliberative hearings. We would be able to debate the merits of cases in times contemporary to those at which the judgments will be made. For that reason 1 have moved my motion. 
(4.13)  -  My Party and I support 100 per cent, the motion moved by  Senator Gair.  I will refer to the amendment a little later. I say with all the depth of feeling I can bring into this Parliament - I regret that I have to say it to the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  - that in allThe time I have been here I have never heard anything so disgraceful come from the Leader of the Opposition as what 1 have just heard. We have before us a motion which I will read again: 
That this Senate of the Australian Parliament places on record its appreciation and gratitude to the personnel of all Australian forces who served in the Vietnam conflict for their courage, dedication and sense of duty. Particularly dowe express our sympathy to the relatives of those Australians who gave their lives during this conflict. 
What have we heard from the Leader of the Opposition? We have heard a tirade of political abuse and adjectives hurled indiscriminately without any regard at all for the motion. As 1 understood it, the motion was to be moved by leave;  Senator Murphy  was to grant leave. The Leader of the Australian Democratic Labor Party,  Senator Gair,  who moved the motion, did not speak to it because, as I understood the position, there was an understanding that we would unanimously express our accord with the motion. But what have we heard? We have heard a statement dripping with insolence, assault and all sorts of things not associated with the men who served Australia and who died for Australia.  His  speech was not associated with the men who served Australia and died for Australia but was dripping lousy with politics. I am not going to degrade those men who served Australia or degrade thosemen who fought for their country and gave their lives in fighting for this country by replying with the kind of tirade of abuse and politics that we heard from  Senator Murphy.  I think that he made a most disgraceful contribution. I hope he will reflect upon what he said and when he does, withdraw it. 
I repeat that here is a motion in which we express as human beings - and this is particularly expressed by some of us who made our contribution in other times - our sympathy to the people who have served and our regard for those who have defended us. What have we got? We have got only politics. If that is politics, my God, 1 do not want to be associated with it. However, I do want to be associated, as we all do, with the motion moved by  Senator Gair.  I do not think the motion needs any more words than the feelingthat we can put in to our expression of it. I completely disregardthe amendment. 
by leave - The statement I am about to make concerns the recent visit to the United States of America and Great Britain by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  and was made by him yesterday in another place. Honourable senators will understand that when the first personal pronoun is used it relates to the Prime Minister. 
I think most people in this House would agree that Australia stands on the threshold of a transitional period in its development as a nation. We are living in a world in which relationswith our traditional allies and friends and with the nations of the Asian and Pacific region are changing significantly. And so, having received invitations from both President Nixon and Prime Minister Heath, I believed it was wise to go to Washington and London. As honourable members know, I left Australia on 27 th October and returned last Thursday, 18th November. I believe this visit was timely, successful and to Australia's advantage. 
It was natural that as the head of a recently formed government 1 should welcome the opportunity for discussions with the leaders of 2 major powers who are traditionally close friends and allies of this country. With the passage of time there is inevitably a risk that changing circumstances might erode the understandings and contractual arrangements of long standing between us and put under strain the commitments embodied in them. Moreover, changes are taking place in the world strategic balance of power which are of fundamental importance to us. A new balance is emerging which includes the United States, the Soviet Union, the People's Republic of China, Japan and the European community, including Britain. In this situation the voice and influence of a medium power such as Australia is becoming increasingly significant. On behalf of the Government of this country, I wanted to establish close personal contact with leaders in the United States and Britain and to explore their thinking on major international issues, their attitudes to which are of importance to us. I also wanted to put at the highest level our own views on some of these bilateral and international questions. 
My visit to America followed closely the United Nations vote on the admission of the People's Republic of China which created a new situation in the world body and in the Asian region. It followed  Dr Kissinger's  return from his second visit to Peking. And, as it happend, it occurred at the same time as the defeat of the foreign aid Bill in the United States Senate. It came shortly before  Mr Laird's  visit to Vietnam and  President  Nixon's planned announcement of further American troop withdrawals from that country. It also preceded the President's planned visits to Peking and Moscow. My visit to the United Kingdom followed immediately after the House of Commons had voted in favour of British entry into the European Economic Community. It also preceded  Sir Alec  Douglas-Home's present attempt to find a solution of the Rhodesian problem. In the international economic field the world's currency arrangements are in disorder and the stability and growth of international trade are threatened. 
In the United States, I had lengthy and very frank discussions with  President  Nixon, Secretary of State Rogers, Defence Secretary Laird,  Deputy  Secretary Packard,  Dr Kissinger,  Under Secretary of the Treasury Volcker,  Chairman  of the Council of Environmental Quality Russell Train, and  Senator Fulbright, Chairman  of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. I also had discussions with many others including the Republican Leader in the Senate,  Senator Scott,  the Secretary for Commerce,  Mr Morris  Stans, who is to visit Australia shortly, the ManagingDirector of the International Monetary Fund and the  chairman  of the ExportImport Bank. All of these talks were very frank and friendly. I have returned with the firm impression that the American Administration is well disposed towards Australia. This reinforcement of our relationship at the personal level is worth while in itself. 
An important result of my visit was the public reaffirmation by  President  Nixon of the continuing strength and validity of the ANZUS Treaty.  President  Nixon gave me an unconditional and unqualified assurance that ANZUS is as valid today as it was when it was signed 20 years ago. The ANZUS Treaty, as honourable members will know, provides that in the event of an armed attack on any one of them or on their forces in the Pacific area, the United States, Australia and New Zealand would each act to meet the common danger in accordance with its constitutional processes. The reaffirmation is important for 3 reasons: Firstly, it was described by the  President  as 'one of the fundamental pillars of American policy in the Pacific', giving it a special emphasis at a time when a new balance of forces is emerging throughout the world; secondly, it was a most positive public affirmation of the Treaty following the announcement of the Nixon Doctrine which outlined new American attitudes in the Asian and Pacific region; and thirdly, it came at a time when a minority in Australia was doubting its worth and others were downgrading its importance. I should add that, in all my discussions on this subject, it was clear that we shared the view that ANZUS is more than a treaty. It is the symbol of the close co-operation which exists between Australia, the United States and New Zea land. But more than that, in addition to providing for the annual meeting of Ministers, it furnishes a framework of practical co-operation under which there is constant exchange of information and views of the greatest importance to Australia.  Senator Fulbright,  who has been critical of many of America's involvements beyond its shores, also said - to use his own words - ANZUS was different' and was a commitment of indefinite duration. None of this must suggest any easing off in our determination to strengthen and enlarge our defence capacity. We are a nation of increasing influence in the world with a fundamental responsibility for our internal and external affairs. This responsibility is ours and ours alone. But if circumstances beyond our capability arise, we know we have reliable allies. 
On my way home I discussed defence strategy in the Pacific with the United States Commander-in-Chief, Pacific, in Honolulu. We spoke of the continuing danger of Communist subversive and insurgent activities throughout the region. I also remind the House of the uncompromising speech by the Chinese delegate to the United Nations on his first appearance at that forum earlier this month. We have no hostility to the great Chinese people who have contributed so much to the culture and history of mankind and we favour an accommodation with them. But we should not forget that this great revolutionary power in Asia still holds fast publicly to its policies, including its support of national liberation movements. We will seek to advance our own dialogue but we will proceed with caution. 
In my talks with the Secretary for Defence, and Deputy Secretary Packard, who has recently visited this country, I raised the question of the security of the Indian Ocean. It was agreed that the increased Soviet naval presence does not constitute a serious threat at present to the vital sea lanes across the Southern Indian Ocean, but it was also agreed that the situation needs to be watched with care. The Soviet presence, of course, could be built up and sustained, especially if the Suez Canal were to be re-opened. I am satisfied the United States is fully aware of the political and strategic importance of the Indian Ocean and agrees that a careful watch should be continued in this area. 
The United States will continue visits and transits by its naval ships and naval exercises in the Indian Ocean. They have welcomed the possibility of using facilities at Cockburn Sound and are, with the United Kingdom, maintaining a communication station at Diego Garcia. 
During my talks with  President  Nixon and  Mr Laird  we exchanged assessments on the situation and the future in IndoChina. The view, which I questioned closely, was put forward that Vietnamisation in both the military and the economic sense was making very good progress and that the situation in South Vietnam was much more stable and promising than seemed likely 9 months ago. I was also informed of American intentions regarding troops to remain after the withdrawal of American combat forces and on the maintenance of air and naval support for the Vietnamese forces for some time to come. I informed the  President  of our decision in principle to assist in the training of Cambodian troops in South Vietnam after our own combat forces are withdrawn if practicable arrangements can be made in conjunction with the other countries concerned. The  President  and other members of the Administration expressed their appreciation in the warmest terms of our constant support and help in Indo-China. If I might digress for a moment, our hope in Vietnam and indeed in Cambodia and Laos is simply that these countries will have the opportunity to live in peace and to determine their own futures, rather than have imposed upon them, by force, unwanted Communist regimes. Can anyone in this House seriously contest the sense and propriety of this objective? In essence our policy towards Cambodia, which attracted so much public interest while I was overseas, is to play a modest part through aid and training programmes in helping to give that country a chance to survive as an independent non-Communist state. As I have emphasised before, there is no question of sending Australian military advisers or instructors to Cambodia. 
The Australian Government has been giving much thought to the question of the environment. I took the opportunity while in Washington to have discussions with  Mr Russell  Train and other members of the council on environmental quality. From these discussions I gained valuable insights into American experience of the problems of dealing with pollution and environmental protection measures, especially in the context of a federal-state relationship. They are willing to assist and advise in this field where they have already made some notable advances. In Washington, I took advantage of the presence of the Prime Minister of India,  Mrs Gandhi,  to have a full discussion with her on the situation in the east of the sub-continent. After this meeting I sent another message to  President  Yahya Khan urging upon him once again the need to deal with the elected representatives of East Pakistan and with Sheikh Mujibur Raman. During the discussion,  Mrs Gandhi  said she would welcome a visit by Australian members of Parliament to see for themselves conditions in the refugee areas. During my discussions I invited  President  Nixon to visit Australia at a time when it would be possible for him to do so. 
I turn now to my visit to Britain. In London I had detailed discussions with the Prime Minister,  Mr Heath;  the Foreign Secretary,  Sir Alec  Douglas-Home; the Minister for Defence, Lord Carrington; the Chancellor of the Exchequer,  Mr Barber;  the Minister responsible for British relations with the European Economic Community,  Mr Rippon;  and the Governor of the Bank of England. I also addressed the Cook Society, the Confederation of British Industries and the Australian- British Trade Association. Naturally, I spent a great deal of time discussing the British entry into the European Economic Community. I started from the point that while we had been disappointed at the terms agreed upon for British entry, these terms were now a fact and we should look towards the best arrangements we could make for the future. 
Generally, I expressed the hope that Britain, having made its decision, would now use its influence to ensure that the community was outward-looking and international in its approach; that it should be flexible in its approach to world trade, rather than regionally exclusive in its attitude. And I also pressed strongly for assurances that during the transitional period, the British would adopt as helpful an attitude as possible to Australian commodities affected by the British entry. I was assured by  Mr Heath, Sir Alec  Douglas-Home and  Mr 
Rippon that Britain would use its influence  to  see that the European Economic Community adopted an outward-looking policy. The point was made to me that Britain depended heavily on its trade and, consequently, the widest area of multi-lateral trade and payments was a source of strength. The point was made to me also that a weak Britain would be of little use  to  its old Commonwealth friends. A strong Britain within the EEC would be of value  to  countries like Australia.  Mr Rippon  also explained fully the inclusion of a clause in the entry agreement that if imports of an agricultural commodity subject to import levies were seriously affected or likely to be affected by British entry, either Australia or Britain would have the right to raise the matter before the commission. 
Assurances - the value of which admittedly can only be fully tested in time - that Britain would, during the transitional period be ready to discuss on a commodity basis those commodities likely  to  be affected by British entry into the Common Market, were reaffirmed to me. The point was also made to me that it would be desirable for the industries concerned to be active in presenting thencases themselves. I urged upon British Ministers the need for the EEC to adopt measures to ensure that the exports of tropical produce from Papua New Guinea are in a no less favourable position than those from other developing countries which are to receive special treatment. Notwithstanding that Papua New Guinea is still a trust territory, the British are hopeful for early progress towards agreement on this matter. I should tell the House that I questioned repeated assertions that although the United Kingdom is to enter the Common Market its bilateral relationship with Australia would not change. I can report that I was assured by Britain's Ministers that there was a pervasive desire to maintain the closest possible co-operation with Australia. 
During my talk with the Chancellor, I raised with him my concern that the voluntary restraint on the movement of British capital to Australia should not be maintained, while, at the same time, movements of capital were liberalised in respect  of  the EEC countries with consequent disadvantage to the traditional flow to Aus tralia. Honourable members will be glad to learn that I received an assurance of the fullest consultation and co-operation before any decisions are made. When Britain enters the EEC she will be creating a situation in which her long standing trading preferences in the Australian market will come to an end. Our policy in any negotiaton of new arrangements will be based on recognition of the principle that trade, to be successful in the world of today, needs to be multilateral. In my discussions with persons involved in commerce and industry, I repeatedly emphasised the point that despite some problems, our economy was fundamentally sound and that we could look to a long term annual growth rate of around 5 per cent or more. These views were generally well received and British interests with whom I discussed the matter continue to regard Australia as a country of promise and a suitable place for British investment.  Mr Heath  and I agreed - and this was followed up later in my talks with the Minister for Defence and the Foreign Secretary - that even closer consultation and communication should be effected between the two Governments. This included strong confirmation of the policy that the British and Australian High Commissioners should have, when needed, immediate direct access to the respective Prime Ministers. At the same time, we would take the opportunity to step up our direct contact with other EEC members and strengthen our representation in Brussels. 
I had useful and wide-ranging discussions on defence matters with the British Prime Minister, the Minister for Defence and the Foreign Secretary. I was assured that the Heath Government intends to maintain its political interests and defence commitments in South East Asia. We reviewed the five-power defence arrangements for assistance in the defence of Singapore and Malaysia. The signature of the new arrangements on 1st November reflects the readiness of the Heath Government to make a contribution to the security and stability of our region which is both welcome and timely. I am aware that the British Government is actively considering, with other Governments in the five-power arrangement, further areas of co-operation in the defence field. There was a close identity of views on the security of the 
Indian Ocean. I was left in no doubt about British concern for the implications of the Soviet naval influence in the area. 

 Mr Heath indicated to me that his Government intends to maintain a naval presence in the Indian Ocean. This reaffirms his statement to the conference of Commonwealth Heads of Government in Singapore last January. We has useful opening discussions directed to increasing defence co-operation in the Indian Ocean area. Work is proceeding on proposals about improved procedures for coordinating resources and surveillance. I was given a survey of the situation in Western Europe, including NATO. I was also informed that Britain would maintain its commitments to SEATO, in which it still sees itself as a 'full partner'. 
I want to turn now to some of the matters which are common to my visits to America and Britain. As a result of my visit, the Australian Government now has a deeper appreciation of American and British thinking on a wide range of international issues of impor lance to us, such as: The British entry into the EEC; the future of China and Taiwan; the future for Vietnam and Cambodia; the Soviet presence in the Indian Ocean; overseas trade; President Nixon's forthcoming visits to Moscow and Peking the international monetary situation; and the Rhodesian situation. For our part, I was able to give American and British leaders a clearer picture of our Govenment's thinking on the role we expect to play in the Asian and Pacific region. And to emphasise that, while we are a dependable friend, we shall make our own independent judgments based upon our national interests. 
I took the opportunities available to me in my discussions to emphasise our changing role in a changing world. I emphasised the need to take full account of Japan in the emerging balance between the United States, China and the Soviet Union in North Asia. I emphasised the role we are seeking to play in regional economic cooperation and regional defence cooperation in South East Asia. I emphasised the importance of a stable and peaceful Indonesia in South East Asia and the weight we gave to our relations with that country. I believe the administration in the United States, the Government in Britain and leading representatives of the media in both countries now have a greater awareness of Australia - as a country of stability and increasing influence in the South East Asian region. I believe, too, that they may now be more conscious of the importance and vitality of Japan and Indonesia in the Asian region. 
I have been concerned for some time to find that, perhaps because we are so far from North America and Europe, ignorance about Australia and misunderstanding of some of our policies are still quite widespread in these areas. For this reason. I talked in New York over 2 special lunches to the editorial writers and correspondents specialising in Foreign Affairs of the 'New York Times' and of Time Life Incorporated. A member of my party did a similar briefing on Australia's role in South East Asia for the 'Washington Post*. In London, at a similar lunch I was able to speak to the editors of nearly all the main newspapers published in England. I believe this was worth while in focusing the interest of leading opinion formers in the media in the United States and in Britain on Australia and its prospects and policies. My mission also received considerable public notice in the media of both countries, particularly in the responsible Press. And I think this, too, served to project Australia effectively to the man in the street. 
I turn now,  Sir, to  the international currency situation, a difficult, unresolved problem for us all. I discussed the situation with the  President  and members of the Administration in Washington - with the Prime Minister and senior Ministers in London - and with high officials and trading and financial interests in both countries. In both Washington and London I emphasised that Australia wants an early resolution of the present impasse as being a matter of the greatest importance for the whole trading world. 
I pointed out the impact which the United States import surcharge and the uncertainty about exchange rates has had on the market for some of our products, including wool. I mentioned the charges that temporary expedients could harden into dogmas and that a widespread slowdown in economic activity could result. Unless there is an early, sensible and adequate readjustment in trade and currency arrangements, competitive devaluation could occur, and increasing protectionism in trade develop, with a consequent threat to economic stability and growth around the world. I stressed, particularlyin the United States, the indirect implication tor Australia of any sharp check of economic growth and trade in third countries, such as Japan, as a result of the United States' measures. There were dangers in isolating Japan, which has to be seen as a country finding a new role in the world, and particularly a role in the economic development of South East Asia. I have made it clear that, in relation to currency matters, Australia reserves its position. We will take our decision when any realignment is settled. Our decision will be based on the interests of the Australian economy and the Australian people. 
In America I urged on the Administration the need to remove barriers in the way of world trade in agricultural commodities and raised at the highest level the problems we face in our attempt to export Australian wool and meat to the United States. These discussions were followed up at other levels. There are good grounds for believing that the United States is seeking ways of being helpful to us in respect of both wool and meat. 

 Sir, in concluding this outline, I think it would be appropriate to say something about Australia and where we stand today. I believe that my visits to New York, Washington and London did something to project Australia to a Britain, which is becoming increasingly involved in Europe, and an America which is subject to varying degrees of pressure to withdraw from its overseas involvements, and toremind them that they have in the southern hemisphere: A vigorous, like-minded but independent friend; a country of great prospect, of influence and stability in the South East Asian region; a country willing and able to make its contribution to a secure and stable Asian and Pacific area increasing in economic strength. 
I pointed out that we have our problems - such as inflation and the state of some of the rural industries - which we must solve - but, at the same time our friends should not lose sight of the fundamental soundness of the economy and the great promise of this country. For our part we should concentrate on representing Australia to the world as a tolerant, stable, healthy member of the international community - increasing in size and strength as it develops, but threatening no-one. I attempted to do this during my tour. In short, we in the Government will direct our energies to building a greater Australia based on self-confidence, determination, co-operation, and a vision of an unlimited future. 
(12.2) - In the background of the explanation I have given in relation to the Senate Estimates Committees, I move: 
That business of the Senate Notices of Motion  1-7  be postponed until a later hour of the day or the next day of sitting. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
(12.44)  -  in reply - I thank the Opposition for its co-operation. In order to assist the speedy passage of this legislation through the Senate,I will not comment on it any further. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
Sitting suspended from 12.46 to 10.57 p.m. 
(10.58)- I move: 
That the Senate do now adjourn. 
May I be permitted to say that it is proposed that Estimates Committee B shall meet on Tuesday at 10.30 a.m. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
by leave - I table a paper relating to salaries and annual allowances of permanent heads, chiefs of staff and statutory office holders. During the debate in the Senate on 29th April 1971 on the Salaries Bill 1971 I said that the Government was prepared to table at least annually a document setting out the various emoluments and allowances received by the holders of statutory offices. Honourable senators will recall thai the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  in particular raised the tabling of these documents. Certain honourable senators on this side of the Senate also raised the same issue. 

Thai is so. 1 have tabled a paper setting out this information. During the debate I mentioned that the common practice of authorising the Governor-General to determine the remuneration for holders of statutory offices dates back to at least 1911 when the Fisher Government introduced the Commonwealth Bank Bill. There followed over the years many Bills which included such a provision - for example, the Repatriation Bill 1920 and the Institute of Science and Industry Bill 1920, both introduced by the Hughes Government, and the Australian National Airlines Bil! 1945  and  the Snowy Mountains Hydroelectric Power Bill 1949, both introduced by the Chifley Government. These are but a few of the many. 
Furthermore, in the past 20 years or so Acts which had provided for the specification of rates in the Act itself 'or in regulations have been amended to provide for determination by the Governor-General. These . changes were made wilh the acquiescence and in some cases active support of the Opposition. Examples are the Tariff Board Bill 1950. 7 commodity board Bills in 1953. *he Broadcasting and Television Bill 1956, the High 
Commissioner (United Kingdom) Bill 1957 and the Overseas Telecommunications Bill 1958. In the matter of allowances, the process of determination by the GovernorGeneral dates back as far as 1903 when determination by the Governor-General was incorporated in the Judiciary Bill for the travelling expenses of the justices oi '.he High Court. 
However I think it is fair to say that the position now reached is unsatisfactory both to the Senate and the Government. The Senate feels that it cannot accept that the Parliament has no part in the determination of salaries for many statutory offices. Although to vary the current practice would present not inconsiderable difficulties, it is unsatisfactory for the Government to face continual Senate opposition to the Governor-General's determination provisions. 
During the debate on the Salaries Bill I also indicated that a great deal of information was being collected and work being done on the general question of the most appropriate means by which the remuneration and allowances for holders of statutory offices should be fixed I added that I would be taking up this question further with my colleagues in the Government, in the light of views expressed in the Senate on many occasions over the past year or more. I have now had this consultation with my colleagues. 
I should say at the outset that the Government has not wished to discourage the interest being shown by the Parliament in the way in which statutory bodies of one kind or another should operate. Consequently the Government has decided that in future it will follow the general principle that a salary or allowance paid on an annual basis should be specificed by Act of Parliament and that any other allowance or fee not paid on an annual basis should be prescribed by regulation. As I have already mentioned, there are some difficulties in this approach. There is, of course, great diversity among the large and increasing number of statutory offices. The considerable amount of work done since then has confirmed that there are various matters of detail which will require further careful consideration before the 
Government's decision on the general principles to be followed can be implemented in full. Nevertheless, examination may show that it is not appropriate for all annual salaries or allowances to be specified in legislation. 

 Lt has not been possible to resolve all the questions of detail involved in giving effect to the principles that I have mentioned and it is clear that a substantial volume of drafting work will be involved. In the circumstances it has not been found practicable to bring in the necessary volume of legislation- about 100 Acts, containing a wide variety of provisions have so far been identified. Appropriate provisions will be included in future legislation for the establishment of new statutory offices. 
It will be evident that the Government proposes making every effort to meet the expressed wish of the Senate, and accordingly it is hoped that honourable senators will accept the need to work under existing statutory provisions until the details have been worked out and appropriate legislative amendments made. 
(.12.18)-! move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to continue the incentives  10  exporters formerly provided under the Commonwealth payroll tax rebate scheme. 
Honourable senators will recall that when the Pay-roll Tax (Termination of Commonwealth Tax) Bill was introduced on 28th September last - to give effect to the agreement to transfer the payroll tax to the States - the early introduction was also foreshadowed of separate legislation to give exporters the same benefits as they would have expected to receive in rebates of their payroll tax liabilities. The Bill proposes that direct Commonwealth grants be payable in respect of increases in exports during the financial years 1971-72 and 1972-73, the years for which the payroll tax rebate scheme was to remain in force. The grants will be equal in amount to the rebates that would have been allowed in respect of payroll tax levied at the rate of  2i  per cent and will be governed by the same conditions of eligibility as applied under the rebate scheme. In broad terms, an exporter will be entitled to a grant of an amount equal to 10i per cent of the increased export sales made by him in either the 1971-72 or ' 972-73 financial years. The increase in exports will be determined by reference to a base period amount generally calculated as onethird of the value of exports during the first 3 of the 8 years immediately preceding the particular export year. 
The grant in respect of a financial year will be limited to the amount that would have been payable by the exporter if the Commonwealth payroll tax had continued to be imposed at the rate of.  2i  per cent. Where the grant is limited in this way any excess entitlement, up to an amount equal to one-half of the payroll tax that would formerly have been payable, may be carried forward and paid as a grant in any of the next 3 succeeding years in. the same way as excess rebate entitlements could have been carried forward under the payroll tax rebate scheme. The proposed grants scheme will be administered by the Commissioner of Taxation who is already responsible for the administration of the payroll tax rebate scheme. The Bill contains provisions for objection by a person who disagrees with a determination made by the Commissioner affecting that person's claim for a grant. A decision of the Commissioner on an objection may be. referred to a taxation board of review for review and decisions of a board which involve a question of law may be taken on appeal lo the High Court. The Bm also contains provisions relating to the observance of secrecy along the lines of those contained in the payroll tax law. Notes of the various clauses of the bill are contained in an explanatory memorandum being circulated to honourable senators. I commend the bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Wilkinson)  adjourned. 
(10.56)  -  Reference was made by  Senator Douglas  McClelland to myself.I do not want to respond to the point that he made, which was linked of course to a Press story. Nevertheless I will examine closely the points that the honourable senator made. If there is a view to be expressed to the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  consequent upon what the honourable senator has said. I will see that that reference is made; I will refer the mailer to the Prime Minister for his consideration. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Senate adjourned ta 10.58 p.m. 
(10.40) -I move: 
Thatthe Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to appropriate the amounts required for expenditure in 1971-72 from the Consolidated Revenue Fund other than those amounts provided by special appropriations and the Appropriation Bill (No. 2) 1971-72. The amounts sought for each department are shown in detail in the Second Schedule to the Bill the sum of these appropriations being $2,934,527,000. This Bill seeks an authorisation of $1,576,554,000. The balance of $1,357,973,000 having already been authorised under the Supply Acts (No.1) and (No. 3) 1971-72. 
The expenditure proposals of the Government were outlined in the Budget Speech and the Schedule to this Bill is the same as that contained in the document Particulars of Proposed Expenditure for the Service of the Year Ending 30th June 1972 which was referred on 16th September to the Senate Estimates committees for examination and report. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Poke)  adjourned. 
(4.12)  -  in reply  -I  thank the Senate for the speedy passage of the Export Incentive Grants Bill. As has been pointed put by  Senator Wilkinson  and  Senator Byrne  this Bill will preserve the position of export industries.It provides the same date as the previous arrangement and it will take the arrangement to the end of the financial year, 1972-73. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
(10.42)  -  I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to provide for expenditure from the Consolidated Revenue Fund in 1971-72 on (a) the construction of public works and buildings; (b) the acquisition of sites and buildings: (c) advances and loans: (d) items of plant and equipment which are clearly definable as capital expenditure; (e) grants to the States under section 96 of the Constitution; and (f) new policies not authorised by special legislation. Details of the amounts sought by each department are shown in the Second Schedule to the Bill, the sum of these appropriations being $710,462,000.Of this $313,554,000 was authorised by the Supply Act (No. 2) 1971-72: the balance of $396,908,000, being authorised by this Bill. 
The main features of the proposed expenditure were dealt with in the Budget Speech. The Schedule to the Bill is the same as that contained in the document Particulars of Proposed Provision for Certain Expenditure in respect of the Year Ending 30th June 1972' which was referred on 16th September to the Senate Estimates committers for examination and report. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Poke)  adjourned. 
Wilh the concurrence of the Senate I would like to explain the placing of business today. 
(3.46) - When the report of Estimates Committee B was presented in the Senate yesterday a motion was moved for the printing of the report and the debate was adjourned because of a point that was raised. I gather that that has been sorted out. Therefore, the motion for the printing of the report can now be put. 
 Question resolved in the affirmative. 
(10.24)  -  The Government will not support the motion for dissent from the ruling of the  Chairman  of Committees. Although I have not been present in the chamber for very long this evening, I had an opportunity to listen to the debate which preceded the ruling to which objection has been taken. If I may be permitted to say so,  Sir, the  understanding is for the Estimates to be dealt with item by item, but to my conscious knowledge a certain degree of tolerance has always been exercised in this regard and no challenge is made when that practice is departed from. 1 do not think that anybody would challenge the right to rebut a point raised in this manner in a debate. 1 suggest that that has been the pattern of the debate tonight. Points have been raised in the grey area of the estimates and replies have been made to those points. In those circumstances, the Government will not support the motion for dissent from the ruling of the  Chairman  of Committees. 
(10.52) - I move: 
That the Bill  be now  read a  second time. 
I ask for leave to incorporate the second reading speech in Hansard. 
(10.50)  -  I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I ask for leave to incorporate the second reading speech in Hansard. 
(10.49)- I move: 
Thai the Bill be now read a second time. 
Since the second reading speech is being circulated and is very comprehensive. I seek leave for it to be incorporated in Hansard. 
(10.57)  -  I move: 
That the Senate do now adjourn. 
It was hoped and expected that we would be able to deal with orders of the day Nos 1 to 6 tonight, but in the event it was not possible. We will have another look at those matters on Tuesday when we return. 
(10.43)- I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The Bill has several purposes in relation to remuneration for certain statutory office holders. First, it is necessary because of the particular legislative provisions existing for certain statutory office holders appointed pursuant to the provisions of the Australian Wool Commission Act, the Broadcasting and Television Act, the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Act and the Criminology Research Act. The existing provisions, which have been included in the parent Acts over the last 2 years, have the effect that for the present the remuneration for the statutory office holders involved is prescribed in regulations but that from the beginning of 1972 the remuneration is to be determined by the Parliament. 
These amended provisions will conform with the principles outlined in my statement of 25th November 1971 - that is, that a salary or allowance paid on an annual basis should be specified by Act of Parliament and that any other allowance or fee not paid on an annual basis should be prescribed by regulation. Regulations which will be made in relation to deputies of members of the Australian Wool Commission will provide that a deputy member is to be paid $35 for attendance at a meeting of not less than 3 hours duration or $20 where a' meeting is less than 3 hours. These are standard daily sitting fees paid to a large number of members of Commonwealth bodies. This Bill will also provide for revision of salaries of certain statutory office holders. 
It is customary for the salaries of full time statutory office holders, where those salaries are less than those applying to per manent heads  of  departments  of  State,  to  be reviewed by the Government subsequent to the application of increased salaries for. Second Division officers of the Commonwealth Public Service. Such a review has been undertaken following the determination by the Public Service Arbitrator  of  new salaries for Second Division officers, which took effect from 4th November 1971. Accordingly this Bill provides new salaries involving comparable increases for certain of the statutory office holders shown in the First Schedule to the Bill, for which existing legislative, provisions require determination of salaries by the Parliament. In the case of various other comparable statutory office holders approval has been given for increases of the same order to be applied, subject to compliance with the requirements of relevant legislation. That legislation is of course under separate examination in accordance with my statement of 25th November 1971, in which I also indicated my hope that honourable senators whould accept the need to work under existing statutory provisions until the details had been worked out and appropriate legislative amendments made. 
The Bill provides that, as in the Commonwealth Public Service, the increases will apply from 4th November 1971, the. operative date of the arbitration determinations. The salaries for the lay offices under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act and offices of Deputy Public Service Arbitrator under the Public Service Arbitration Act. have been reviewed separately in their own right, the existing salaries for these offices having been determined in June 1968. The Bill also provides for a date of effect of 4th November 1971 for these salaries. I have mentioned that these particular salaries have been reviewed independently, as in the past. The common date of effect for the 2 groups arises from the particular situation on this occasion when the 2 changes happen to occur concurrently. I have circulated an explanatory memorandum which sets out details in respect of each of the aspects of this Bill. 1 commend the Hill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Murphy)  adjourned. 
by leave  -  I wish to deal with notices of motion Nos 1 to 7 and I should like to make a statement of what I propose. I understand that there is common agreement that notices of motion Nos 3, 4. 5 and 7 should be made orders of the day for the first day of sitting in 1972. 
In the absence of any indication of assent from the Australian Democratic Labor Party, if that is the understanding,I move: 
That notices of motion Nos 3, 4, 5 and 7be made an order of the day for the first day of sitting in 1972. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI understand that the attitude of the Opposition and the Australian Democratic Labor Party on notices of motion Nos 1, 2 and 6 is that they should be referred to the respective Committees mentioned. The Government does not support these proposals. We do not see any great purpose in having a protracted debate on these 3 issues. The understanding is that the Senate will vote separately on each of these notices. The Government will say 'no' on motions No. 1 and No. 2, but each will be carried on the voices. When the Senate comes to notice of motion No. 6, the Government again will say 'no' and will call for a division. We hope that the Government will win the division. I wish to establish the fact that we will have one vote and that that one vote will be indicative of our view in relation to notices of motion Nos 1, 2 and 6. 
Motion (by  Senator Byrne)  agreed to: 
That there be referred to the Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts the following matter - The position of and provision for deprived schools (a deprived school being a school in the inner urban or rural areas providing primary education, in which a high proportion of the school population is disadvantaged through background and/or environment), with a view to financial aid to the States to permit the recognition of such schools as special schools warranting a more liberal scale in staffing, equipping and servicing. 
Motion (by  Senator Murphy)  agreed to: 
That there be referred to the Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs the following matter - The law and administration of divorce, custody and family matters, with particular regard to oppressive costs, delays, indignities and other injustices. 
Motion (by  Senator Murphy)  put: 
That, consistent with the Resolution of the Senate of 30th March 1971, which referred to the Standing Committee on Social Environment the continuing oversight of the problems of pollution, including ways and means of preserving the environment, the Senate refers to that Committee the following matter: 
An inquiry into the Clutha Project in order to ascertain to what extent in that project: 
the operations of any foreign corporation or any trading or financial corporation formed within the limits of the Commonwealth; 
the use of territory subject to the control of the Commonwealth; 
the export of coal; or 
operations which can be the subject of Commonwealth legislation or administration, may constitute or contribute to a problem of pollution or affect the environment. 
The Committee is requested to recommend, on or before 30th September 1972, what legislative and administrative measures should be taken by the Commonwealth to preserve the environment and to prevent pollution by the Clutha Project. 
J seek leave to make a ministerial statement pursuant to a question that was asked yesterday by  Senator Jessop  about the legalisation of marihuana. 
Pursuant to the provisions of the 
Services Trust Funds Act 1947-1950  I  present the  annual  reports of the Australian Military Forces Relief Trust Fund, the Royal Australian Navy Relief Trust Fund and the Royal Australian Air Force Welfare Trust Fund for the  year  ended 30th  June  1971, together with the reports of the Auditor-General on the books and accounts of the Funds. 
Pursuant to section 10 of the International Monetary  Agreements  Act 1947,  I  present the report of the operations of that Act and of the operations, insofar as they relate to Australia, of the International Monetary Fund and of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the year ended 30th June 1971. 
 by leave  -  I should like to make a quick comment which I think might be helpful to the Senate. I remind honourable senators tht the other place intends to complete its present series of sittings some time tomorrow. Whether it will finish early or lateI do not know. If the Senate wishes to complete its business reasonably soon after the other place has finished, although this might involve the Senate meeting on Friday, I would suggest with great respect that there would be a need for a high degree of self discipline among us all in dealing with the various matters that we have to consider. Our problem is to get through a consideration of the reports by the Estimates Committees today so that we have tomorrow and possibly some time on Friday to deal with a number of Bills, many of which we will be able to deal with in cognate debates. An essential ingredient in this timetable is an endeavour by us to dispose of the Estiniates dealt with by Appropriation Bill (No. 1) and Appropriation Bill (No. 2). 
(10.12) - Most of us in our parliamentary duties have been overseas and have seen the voting procedures adopted by other parliaments, most of which have a 3- button system providing for ayes, noes and abstentions. We have a system under which the House divides. It is taken from the Mother of Parliaments. There are some difficulties in departing from this system, indeed, there are some advantages in the tradition. For instance! divisions enable exchanges of views and take out the tensions in members. I know of no studies that have been done through the Presiding 
Officers. If there have been any I will certainly let the honourable senator know by communication. The second point relates to advertising and decisions taken in regard to placement of advertisements with various journals. My understanding is that certain departmental functions are involved here, but broadly speaking - I will have to check with the Treasury officials - some guidelines are laid down for the placement of advertisements. It is a pretty dangerous area to move into because, as I have often said, kissing goes by favour and the judgment of one group that an advertisement should be placed in one area might be challenged by other groups. Nevertheless, I will have it looked into by the Treasury. 
I present the following paper 
Statement for the year 1970-71 of Heads of Expenditure and the amounts charged thereto pursuant to section 36a of the Audit Act 1901-1969. 
' - 1 ask for leave to rearrange the business paper by calling on the Customs Tariff Validation Bill (No. 2) and deferring order of the day No. 7, the Salaries (Statutory Offices) Adjustment Bill, until a later hour in the day. I do so at the request of the Opposition. 
At a later hour and then we will debate it when you are ready. The reason I wish to rearrange the business is that I understand the Opposition wants time to look at the Bill and I am doing it for the convenience of the Opposition. 

In that case 1 withdraw the final part of my remarks and ask for leave to call on the Customs Tariff Validation Bill (No. 2). 
In the spirit of co-operation that has prevailed in the Senate during the last few days in dealing with our business, I believe that if the Estimates are passed very quickly and we commence to deal with Bills and other matters today, it could even be possible, I suggest, that by extending our hours a little later tonight we might  be  able to complete the business paper. I do not want to appear to be saying that this should be done. It is within the will of the Senate and for honourable senators to make their own judgments on the matter later this evening. 
(1 1.4)  -  in reply - 1 understand that this situation is that the Opposition will agree to the second reading and then move amendments at the Committee stage. 
1 wish to advert only very briefly to the generality of the proposal. However, 1 feel bound to say in response to the statement made by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Willesee)  when he linked this matter to Bills relating to salaries which were introduced into the other House yesterday that this Bill was introduced into the other House and was the subject of a message to this chamber for a considerable time before the Kerr Report had its birth. So it seems that the Opposition is acting in relation to a situation which was regarded as valid, proper and justifiable in every way, and 1 hope to demonstrate this very briefly in a moment. Quite clearly  Senator Willesee  pitched his case to the point that because the Government has decided that there shall be an exercise of restraint in relation to the Bills introduced into the other place yesterday this restraint should retrospectively apply in relation to legislation which was put down and passed in the other place. I would be interested to know what the Opposition did in the other place in relation to these particular Bills. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONDo not walk me away from the point. 1 want to know, for instance, what the Opposition did in the other place in relation to these Bills. It is obvious that that barb went in and stung a little. Never mind. The fact: is that there is a proposal to move amendments because of something thai happened yesterday. Without arguing the merits of what happened yesterday, the Opposition says that we should exercise restraint at this next level. The amendment foreshadowed by the Opposition excludes certain officers concerning whom decisions of the Senate were taken that Bills be introduced by 1st January next year. Indeed, that was an integral part of the Bill in its creation. However, the foreshadowed amendment has handled that si Illation by excluding those officers from the amendment. 
I do not want to respond to the honourable senator. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI do not want to respond to a simple question because if 1 do so in your case other honourable senators will want to have a forum here when in fact this is a second reading debate. 1 think the proper course is for the honourable senator to speak at the Committee stage. The Bill proposes to increase salaries, for instance, of lay members of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and the  Deputy  Public Service Arbitrators. These people have not had an increase since June 1968. Mark you, this was before the last increase was granted in parliamentary salaries. I say that to let honourable senators know where they stand. I suggest it would be an injustice for parliamentarians, for instance - that is what we are - to be extending this situation into the non-political arena in the way that has been suggested in the speech of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. They are not my words; they are his words. It is quite the wrong method of approaching this matter. The Opposition will put itself in the situation, and put the Parliament in the situation, of being accused of saying: If I cannot have my bat I will not let you have yours'. I reiterate that we will mete out summary justice, as apparently it is thought to be, to some people by means of a Bill related to a matter which was introduced into the Parliament before we actually did anything about the Kerr report. It is well to remember, as  Senator Byrne  said, that if an officer dies his widow will receive a lower pension if the Bill is not passed than she will receive if it is passed. 

I am relying on the advice given to me by my advisers. I do not know whether they are correct. That aspect will have to be checked. Likewise, an officer who retires will receive a lower pension and a smaller amount in lieu of his furlough entitlement. The Senate should be fully informed of what will happen if it accepts the Opposition's proposal. I believe that it is quite wrong to treat this group of officers in isolation from what has gone on in the past. For instance, I understand that Second Division officers of the Public Service received a salary increase in November as a result of the Public Service Arbitrator's decision. Are the officers who come under this legislation to be made an exception of because of something that happened yesterday? 

The Second Division officers received a salary increase as a result of an arbitral decision. 
No, they did not.  Senator Gair  should not incorrectly state the position. A special authority is constituted to determine Public Service salaries and the Second Division got an increase as a result of a determination by that authority. In carrying the proposed amendment the Senate will be making a distinction between public servants who receive salary increases on the basis of arbitral decisions and the very limited number of people whose salary increases are made by legislation. I can appreciate the climate in which this Bill is being debated, but I do not think the Senate should be put in the situation where it can be suggested that within 24 hours of a decision being taken in ano her place the Senate said: 'What is good enough for us is good enough for them'. Those officers are not comparable with us. The whole basis of the inquiry by  Mr Justice  Kerr was to separate the Parliament- 

The honourable senator will have an opportunity to speak at a later stage. I say with all the sincerity I can bring to it that honourable senators opposite are going to be very sorry if they do what they proposed to do. 

That would not be difficult. I am very concerned about what the Senate could be doing. I say to the Deputy Leader of the Opposition, who has indicated that he proposes to put forward a particular proposition, that he should not choose as a vehicle to achieve his ends a Bill which was passed by the other House. I would be interested to learn whether the Opposition opposed this Bill in the other place. 

The Opposition should not put a stricture of this nature on a Bill which was passed in the other place before the report of  Mr 
Justice Kerr was put down. The Opposition should pick on some other Bill which relates to parliamentary salaries. I suggest that it does less than credit to the Opposition for it to pick on a Bill which was in fact passed by the other House with the aid of the Opposition and to impose this stricture on it. I could argue further, but I do not intend to do so. A vote will be taken on this matter. It will be the vote of the Senate which will express the view of the Senate as a whole. The Government will oppose any amendment which is proposed. 
(11.32) - I do not wish to speak very long during this Committee stage of the Bill.  I  have only a few points to make. The first point I make - and I think  Senator Willesee  agrees - is that the ceiling figure in relation to these items is $22,654. 
Yes, 22,654 is the ceiling. That particular figure is interesting. I shall make a reference to it for the benefit of the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy).  The figure relates to the Second Parliamentary Counsel whose salary is increased from $19,610 to $22,654. I can remember a most stirling debate in this place when we were becoming frustrated because of delays in receiving legislation. 

I ask the honourable senator to wait for my remarks. It is a great old pattern that when honourable senators can sniff that there is going to be a bit of a hit they want to talk at once. The situation was that the Leader of the Opposition in this place pleaded with us in that debate  -  I do not have to go to the Hansard record because I think he remembers the occasion well - that we should do something to take this salary out of the public service environment where there was a limitation of salaries. Because of that situation we could not obtain a suitable Parliamentary Counsel. 

The honourable senator's statement is being qualified now but the situation is that we did take the salary of the Parliamentary Counsel out of that Bill to facilitate the passage of legislation through Parliament. The highest figure with which we are now concerned is $22,654 which is the payment for the Second Parliamentary Counsel. I say to  Senator Gair  who has made his point, and expressed categorically his views that he was not influenced by the Kerr report - I do not challenge what he has said - that it is fair to remember that it was an arbitrators determination which resulted in an increase as at 27th October this year - that is not long ago - being granted to some 800 people in the Second Division. This increase was the result of a determination by an arbitrator after a public hearing. On 9th December we are going to deny the same relative increase to about 100 special officers who are involved in this matter. As  Senator Willesee  properly said, we could have a big debate on the broad question.I am not going to do that. What I am saying is that the timing of what honourable senators are doing- 

If honourable senators keep interjecting on me I will take a little longer. The point I am trying to make is that as a result of an arbitrator's determination - and a public hearing to boot - on 27th October some 800 public servants received an increase. Now. on 9th December, we say that that is all over. We are going to deny some 100 people in statutory authorities an increase and put them at a disadvantage with those to whom an increase has been given. However, numbers count in this place. If we have a vote the numbers will decide it. I can see that we on the Government side are obviously going to lose but 1 have said my piece. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be left out  (Senator Willesee's amendment)  be left out. 
 Mr President,  I ask for leave of the Senate to incorporate in Hansard a ministerial statement that was made in another place by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn)  yesterday relating to the training of Vietnamese and Cambodians in Vietnam. 
 Mr President,  I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard a statement that was made yesterday in the other place by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  in relation to additional assistance for government and independent schools. 
1 ask for leave of the Senate to incorporate in Hansard  a  ministerial statement that was made in another place in relation to proposed legislation on general insurance. 
We are debating the last Bill and we are all booked to go back to our various homes on aircraft at 5.20 p.m. and 5.30 p.m. If we miss thoseflights we cannot get on other aircraft because they are booked out. It will be even difficult to do so tomorrow. If we want to complete this Bill and finish the session we will have to stop at 4.35 p.m. I would need 5 minutes to carry out certain procedures in the Senate before we lifted at 4.40 p.m. If we cannot do that, we will report progress at 4.35 p.m. and I will move a motion that the Senate resume on Monday at 2 p.m. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
Clauses1 to 7 - by leave - taken together. 
 Mr President,  I seek leave to have incorporated in Hansard a statement by the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  relating to the work on stage 7 of television development. 
 Mr President,  I seek leave to have incorporated in Hansard a statement by the Minister for Air  (Senator DrakeBrockman)  relating to the merino ram export embargo. 
(10.22) -  Mr President,  the situation is that in very recent discussions with the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  I said to him that consideration at the best could be given to this Bill only after the conclusion of Government business. 
Yes, that was the recent discussion. In view of the need for further consideration of this Bill in the light of what has happened, the Government now takes the view that it is not appropriate today to consider this Bill after the conclusion of Government Business. Without wanting to have a debate on this - 
Thank you very much.  Senator Murphy,  I insisted that you get leave to make your point and correspondingly I think you should let me make mine. I did say to you early this week, at the outset, that at best we could look at the situation of dealing with this Bill after we have dealt with Government Business. We have looked at it and I am afraid we cannot support your proposal to bring it on after Government business. Therefore I will have to resist your motion. 
(10.40) - 1 wish to make a couple of quick points concerning some of  Senator Murphy's  remarks in which, 1 regret to say, he drew from the motion implications which the Government does nol accept. The motion calls for the appointment of a select committee to seek knowledge on a whole series of matters. To the extent that the committee will be seeking knowledge and not making pre-judgements, the Government believes that the motion expresses the wish of the majority of honourable senators. .1 would not subscribe to the views that  Senator Murphy  has expressed. The committee will not be conducting a witch hunt, lt should not bc inferred that the appointment of this committee is designed to demonstrate that there is something wrong or improper. The committee will be seeking knowledge. 1 want to make that point abundantly clear. 
I have made the point on previous occasions that the Senate is becoming overburdened with committees. I have referred to the demands committees are placing on the Senate. My view is that we may be destroying the wonderful function that was envisaged when we created the committee system if too great a burden is imposed on senators and the Senate's administrative officers. Therefore in that sense we suggest that the appointment of this committee is premature and we would resist its creation at this point of time. Because there is always the danger that one's attitude may be misrepresented in the newspapers. I emphasise (hat I am saying that the appointment of this committee is premature having regard to the already tremendous task imposed on the Senate by committees. This may be a reflection on the machinery by which committees are operated. 
I think this motion should be put to the vote now. I will not call for a division because obviously the majority of honourable senators want this committee and there is an arrangement between the 2 parties opposite. I want it clearly understood that 1 will be saying 'no' on the basis that I do not believe the time is appropriate for the Senate to be appointing this committee having regard to the work the Senate has on hand. 1 believe that it would be more appropriate for this motion to be considered during the life of the Parliament next year, when some of the work of the Senate committees may have lightened. I suggest that the obvious way to proceed now is to put the question. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The Committee shall be empowered to print from day to day such papers and evidence as may be ordered by it. A daily Hansard shall be published - 
I remark that the word 'shall' is an imperative -  of such proceedings of the Committee or any subcommittee as take place in public. 
I wish to inform honourable senators that the Hansard staff is already greatly extended and the Government Printing Office is not able to cope with the volume of business wilh which it is confronted. Therefore, as the Presiding Officer, I wish to announce in advance that I cannot guarantee that clause 7 of this motion can be fulfilled each day. 
(4.36)  -  I move: 
That the Senate do now adjourn. 
I am sure all honourable senators will understand my brevity at this time. I want briefly to express at the end of this series of sittings my thanks to you,  Mr President,  as our Presiding Officer, and the officers who work with you, the Charman of Committees and the Temporary Chairmen of Committees. I also wish to express, on behalf of all Government senators, our thanks to the  Clerk  and his staff for the work they have done in assisting us in carrying out the work of the Senate. I want to convey on behalf of the Government our thanks and appreciation to the whole staff of the Parliament who are forebearing and tolerant in the demands that we put upon them. Finally, if I have missed anybody in the circumstances in which I am placed, I wish our thanks to be conveyed to all. On behalf of the Government Parties I want to convey to you,  Mr President,  your staff, and the Hansard staff particularly, as well as all the messengers and other staff of the Parliament our best wishes and thanks for a happy Christmas and a prosperous New Year. I convey that message also to the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  and the Leader of the Democratic Labor Party  (Senator Gair)  and their supporters on my own behalf and on behalf of all my Government colleagues. 
 Mr President,  I seek leave to make a statement on behalf of the Prime Minister relating to ministerial arrangements. 
The Prime Minister has provided the following answer: 
and (2) I have been informed that no record can be found of any statements having been made along the lines you have mentioned. 
It is with deep regret that I inform the Senate of the death on 7th January of exSenator the Honourable Benjamin Courtice. For 25 years he gave devoted service as a senator to his native State of Queensland and to the people of Australia. As a member of the Australian Labor Party, he was chosen to represent Queensland in the Senate under section 15 of the Constitution by the Parliament of Queensland on 2nd September 1937, following the death of 

 Senator J. V. MacDonald. He was later elected at the general elections in 1937, 1943, 1949, 1951 and .1955. The distinction with which he served his State, this Parliament and indeed the Commonwealth was a testimony to his enthusiasm, hard work and desire to do his best for his State and for Australia. 
Benjamin Courtice was a member of the Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances from 2nd December 1937 to 27th September 1938 and from 28lh November 1940 to 7th July 1943. He also was a member of the Profits Committee from 12th November 1941 to 26th March 1942. Furthermore, he served 2 terms as Temporary  Chairman  of Committees, from 1941 to 1943 and from 1952 to 1954.  His  ability in that capacity was to be recognised subsequently in his appointment as  Chairman  of Committees from September 1943 to November 1946. He also served with distinction as Opposition Whip from 1937 to 1941. The appointment of  Senator Courtice  as Minister for Trade and Customs on 1st November 1946 came as no surprise to his fellow senators and parliamentary colleagues. He was to hold that portfolio until 1.9th December 1949. 

 His service to the Parliament was to continue in the same exemplary fashion as a member of the Select Committee on Constitution Alteration (Avoidance of Double Dissolution Deadlocks) Bill 1950 and as a member of a delegation representing the Parliament of the Commonwealth at the first meeting of the Northern Territory Legislative Council in its new Council Chamber on 25th March 1955. He retired on 30th June 1962. The late  Senator Court  ice's legacy is one of devotion to service. Not only is his passing mourned in this chamber; it is mourned particularly in Bundaberg where he was born on 28th March 1886 and where he was so closely associated with the sugar industry. Those of us who remain here and who sat with him in this place knew him as a kindly man, a man loyal to his political beliefs and fair to his political opponents, honourable in mind, in deed and in everything he put his will to do. He was a lover of democracy, its parliamentary procedures and its national application. T move: 
That the Senate expresses its deep regret at the death of the Honourable Benjamin Courtice,  a  former senator for the State of Queensland and a former Minister of the Crown, places on record its appreciation of his long and .meritorious public service, and tenders its sincere' sympathy to the members of his family in their bereavement. 

The Minister for Defence has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
A total of 46,852 Australian servicemen served in Vietnam between the commencement of Australian involvement there and 30th November 1971. 
29,428 were members of the permanent forces and 17,424 were national servicemen. 

The Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Average earnings were $2,454 in 1961-62 and $3,900 in 1969-70. Tax payable on taxable incomes of those amounts was $296.80 or 12.1 per cent in 1961-62, and $738.41 or 18.9 per cent in 1969-70. If the taxpayer's only deductions for income tax purposes were those allowable for the maintenance of  a  spouse and two children, then the tax payable would have been 175.70 or 7.2 per cent in 1961-62, and $525.61 or 13.5 per cent in 1969-70. In this particular case the results are much as suggested by the honourable senator, but it is obvious that the level of deductions has a considerable effect on the calculations. 
The proceeds of the personal income tax, along with the proceeds of other taxes levied by the Commonwealth, are paid into the Consolidated Revenue Fund. These general revenues of the Commonwealth arc used in meeting the Commonwealth's overall financial commitments. It is, therefore, not possible to say what part of the increase in personal income tax collections was used to finance expenditures on specific items. 

The Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
I am not in a position to provide information about the business or taxation affairs of a particular company. I can, however, indicate the general policy that applies to Australian investment overseas of the kind referred to in the question, and also the general taxation position regarding income derived from such investment. 
Proposals for investment overseas by Australian residents and Australian-resident companies usually require approval under the Banking (Foreign Exchange) Regulations. Proposals for direct investment involving a significant measure of Australian managerial participation in the oversens enterprise and the export of managerial or technical skills are readily approved. Approval is also readily given for all types of investment which promote Australian exports or protect existing Australian investments abroad. Although proposals for investment overseas must be considered on a case-by-case basis, for most practical purposes Australian restrictions on capital outflow are limited to portfolio and certain other investments of a purely financial kind. In the normal course, approvals given in respect of direct investments overseas are conditional upon net earnings from the investment of funds remitted from Australia being transferred promptly to Australia unless their reinvestment overseas is authorised. 
In accordance with the foregoing policy, Australian companies have been establishing enterprises in many countries overseas, particularly in New Zealand, South-East Asia and the Pacific, but also in the United Kingdom, the United States and elsewhere. In general the Government does not seek to deter Australian firms from expanding their operations overseas through direct investment in other countries. The annual amount of Australian direct investment in companies overseas has risen steadily  from $13m  in 1963-64 to $146m in 1969-70. In recent years a portion of this investment has indirectly been financed from abroad rather than by investment of Australian funds. 
The Government believes that such investment is in Australia's interests. Direct investment accompanied by exports of technical know-how and managerial skills which give the Australian enterprise a role in the conduct of an overseas venture is an important means by which Australia can contribute to development and growth of other countries. This is particularly true of countries in the Pacific and South-East Asian region. Apart from that, such investment is of importance in promoting Australia's own commercial and other interests, and in this connection the Government fully recognises the national benefits that can accrue from Australian companies extending their activities on an international scale. 
I might add that, in the case of direct investments overseas which promote Australian exports, special assistance is provided by the Government through the overseas investment insurance scheme administered by the Export Payments Insurance Corporation. 
So far as the honourable senator's question about the taxation position is concerned, under the general provisions of the Australian income tax law a company which is a resident of Australia is liable to income lax on income derived directly or indirectly from all sources whether in or out of Australia. However, income derived by a resident from sources out of Australia is exempt from Australian income tax if that income is liable to tax in the country in which it is derived. Of the countries specifically referred to in the question, the terms of the double tax agreement between Australia and the Republic of Singapore may be relevant in determining liability to Australian tax in the case of income having a source in Singapore. 
A company which is not a resident of Australia is liable to Australian tax only on income which is derived directly or indirectly from sources in Australia. Income derived by a non-resident from sources wholly out of Australia is exempt from Australiantax. 

The Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
and (2) The following table sets out loans by the Commonwealth to the States between 1st July 1951 and 30th June 1971 for railway projects, together with details of the rates of interest and terms of repayment. 

The Minister for Foreign Affairs has furnished the following reply: 
1 am aware of, but not in a position to confirm the accuracy of the allegation. However, officers of the Department  of Foreign  Affairs satisfied themselves before  Dr Soloviev  left Aus- tralia that it was his personal decision that he should return to the Soviet Union. He could have remained in Australia if that had been his choice. 
Yes. 
Yes. He is not required to state reasons for travel. 
The Treasurer has provided the following answer  to  the honourable senator's question: 
Sheltered workshops conducted by public benevolent institutions are entitled to exemption from sales tax on goods which they purchase or manufacture for their own use; they are not exempt from tax on goods which they purchase or make for sale. I have no information about retailers' profit margins on goods purchased from sheltered workshops. 
In accordance with the Government's practice of bringing together for consideration at Budget time requests received during the year for new or extended taxation concessions, I will arrange for this mailer to be listed for consideration when the 1972-73 Budget is being prepared. 

The Prime Minister has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's  question 
I refer the honourable senator to the reply by the Acting Prime Minister to a question without notice by the Leader of the Opposition oil 10th November 1971 (Mansard, House of Representatives, pages 3221-3222), to my reply lo a question without notice by me  Deputy  'Leader of the Opposition on 23rd November 1971 (Hansard, House of Representatives, pages 3454-3455), and to the statement on the training of Vietnamese and Cambodians in Vietnam made by the Minister for Defence' on 9th December 1971 (Hansard, House of Representatives, pages 4477-4480). 
 
The Prime Minister has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question:  (0 The cut-back in steel production by the Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd at its Newcastle plant reflected trends in the demand for the company's products in both the domestic and overseas markets, and was in line with the trend in the steel industry throughout Mie world. 
to (5) Tn his statement on 4th November 1971 my colleague the Minister for Labour and National Service was indicating his concern with the trend of unemployment and for that purpose the relevant statistics are the seasonally adjusted ones. On the other hand, my statement ' on 26th October 1971 was concerned with' the current level of unemployment and for that purpose it is the actual and not the seasonally adjusted figures which are important. 
The Minister for Labour and National Service also stated that the figures to be released by his Department on 15th November 1971 would show that the unemployment situation has stabilised. The Minister was referring simply to the situation in the month of October. He was not making any prognostications about the future. On the other hand, my colleague the Treasurer, in his statement on 1st November 1971 was conveying his Department's assessment of the possible future trend in unemployment. 

The Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
and (2) Information is not available to show separately details of remittances for purchases and rentals of television and cinema films. The Reserve Bank has advised that approvals for the provision of foreign currency by authorised banks for both purchases and rentals of films in 1969-70 and 1970-71 were as follows: 

The Prime Minister has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 

 Mr Ysmael was put forward by the Embassy of the Philippines to the Department of Foreign Affairs for accreditation as Economic Attache on the Staff of the Embassy and accepted by the Department of Foreign Affairs on 20th July 1971. The matter was handled by the Department of Foreign Affairs.I was at that time Prime Minister and I received no representations from  Mr Waterhouse  on it. 

The Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Commonwealth Departments and the Armed Services do not pay to the Stales road haulage or similar taxes in respect of Commonwealth vehicles. 

The Minister for Defence has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The only installation in Australia which might be described as a United States base is the United States Naval Communications Station :;t Northwest Cape. 
Other joint undertakings sometimes referred to as bases are: The Joint Defence Space Research Facility at 
Pine Gap, near Alice Springs; The Joint Defence Space Communications 
Station, Nurrungar, near Woomera; 
The Joint Geological and Geophysical Research Project in Alice Springs; 
The United States Air Force Detachment at Amberley, engaged in research into atmospheric disturbances. 
Other activities, including the National Aeronautics Space Administration (NASA) network of tracking stations, the Mildura balloon launching station, the Tranet navigational receiving station at Smithfield and the Baker Nunn photographic satellite tracking station at Woomera are operated by Australians in conjunction with or on behalf of United States agencies and could not be described as United States basis. These activities were described by a former Minister for Defence on 29th August 1967 and on 19th October 1970. 
All of the foregoing installations may be inspected by Australian Parliamentarians subject only to the normal requirements of operational convenience and prior arrangements being made through the Australian Co-operating Agency concerned. 1 should point out. however, that where classified activities are involved, certain parts of some installations are accessible only to persons who have some direct responsibility for the activity. 

The Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
I am nol in a position to express any authoritative opinion on this question. 
Basically, the Government takes the view that it ought not to interfere in the activities of the various voluntary aid organisations in Australia - leaving it to the decision of individual people whether to support them or not, and to the organisations concerned to decide where and how the funds which they raise should be spent. In these circumstances, 1 am unable to comply with the honourable senator's request. 

The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
I have considered a resolution passed at a public meeting arranged by the 'Save Hallett Cove' Committee and held in Adelaide on 15th October 1971. 
The establishment and management of national parks and reserves in the States is the constitutional responsibility of the State Governments. 1 have seen reports to the effect that some 51 acres at Hallett Cove have been proclaimed by the South Australian Government, acting within its responsibility, as an area of scientific interest, and that it is examining the question of purchasing not only this area but also a buller zone around it. 

The Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The total amount of deductions claimed for medical expenses  in  income tax returns for the 1971-72 income year will be affected by the increase from 50c to $1 effective from 1st November 1971 in the charge payable by patients under the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme, lt is estimated that the loss  to  income tax revenue that will result from the increase in deductions allowed for such expenses will be approximately $4m  in  1972-73 and $6m  in  a full year. 

The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
The first stage of the review has commenced. This is taking the form of a compilation and analysis by each Minister, in respect of his Department, of departmental functions and activities. This basic information will be the subject of further review by a committee of senior Ministers. lt was made clear in the Budget Speech that the review is aimed at ensuring that the rate of increase in departmental expenditure is restricted lo the absolute minimum consistent with the execution of Commonwealth functions of vital importance lo the national welfare, and further that the review, which is to be conducted within the Government itself, will of necessity be spread over a period of some months. 

On 12th October 1971  Senator Murphy  asked me a question without notice about foreign ownership of Australian land,  I  now provide the following answer: 
The control and recording of transfers ot title to freehold or leasehold land is fundamentally the responsibility of the Stales. The Commonwealth's direct interest is confined to its responsibilities for the Territories. 
The Minister for the Interior has provided the following information on overseas investment in land in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory: 
Details of ownership on a basis of nationality are noi held for land in urban areas in either Territory although it is likely that foreign ownership would be a comparatively small proportion of the totals in these areas. Most foreign investments in land is directed to the rural areas and is mainly held under pastoral lease. Information in respect of rural areas in the Territories is as follows: 
Australian Capital Territory 
Only one lease, of 1,530 acres or 0.6 per cent of the area for grazing or agricultural purposes, is held by overseas interests. 
Northern Territory 
Pastoral leases in the Northern Territory are granted for a period of 50 years with development and stocking conditions. These lenses are liable to forfeiture for breaches of covenants and cannot be converted to freehold. 
Of the 286,648 square miles held under pastoral lease in the Northern Territory, 16.8 per ce.it is held solely by overseas interests, of which British interests hold 9.9 per cent and American 5.7 per cent. A further 8.7 per cent of the area under lease is held by joint Australian and overseas interests, leaving 74.5 per cent of the area held solely by Australian residents. 
In the Top End of the Territory (i.e. annual rainfall above 24 inches roughly north of 16" latitude) 27.7 per cent of the 45,500 square miles under pastoral lease is held solely by overseas interests, of which American interests hold 17.1 per cent, Asian 7.3 per cent and British 3.3 per cent. A further 29.1 per cent is held by joint Australian and overseas interests, leaving 43.2 per cent of the area held solely by Australian residents. 
In respect of agricultural leases in the Northern Territory only 3 leases comprising about 115 acres or leis than 0.1 per cent of the 203,555 acres under agricultural leasehold, are held by overseas interests. 

On 4th November  Senator Davidson  asked me a question without notice about international aid. The matters raised by the honourable senator were referred to the Minister for Foreign Affairs who has provided the following information: 
The Tasmania n Zone President of the Association of Apex Clubs issued a press release on 3rd November 1971 correcting the report that $16,000 forwarded to the Indian Government for relief purposes was being returned to Australia because of 'poor organisation' by the Indian Government. 
The press release states that the money referred to was raised by Apex Clubs in Australia for the East Pakistan Tidal Wave Relief. Appeal and consists of trust funds being held in New South Wales by, the Association of Apex Clubs because of the present unsettled conditions in East Pakistan. Legal advice given to Apex indicated that in order to release these funds, they would have to be returned to the individual club's charity accounts. The money had not left Australia and the Indian Government had not been involved in any way. 
The International President of the Association of Apex Clubs has informed the Department of Foreign Affairs that the Apex Club of Hobart had gathered together a quantity of second-hand spectacles and had experienced some difficulty in forwarding them to the Apex Club in Calcutta, but that this problem could have been overcome if a different approach had been adopted. 
The Government is keenly aware of its responsibility to ensure that the aid it provides fulfils priority needs and is distributed effectively. Australia's missions in the recipient countries maintain continuing contact with the authorities in those countries and report regularly on the progress of Australian-sponsored aid activities. 
In India, our High Commissioner and his staff have first-hand knowledge of the areas to which Australian aid has been directed and in cooperation with the responsible Indian authorities have been able to ensure that our aid has been put to good use. 
On 10th December  Senator Douglas  McClelland asked me the following question without notice: 
Is he aware that public servants, especially Post Office employees, who will be required to work on Christmas Day and New. Year's Day of 1972 have been told that because those days fall on a Saturday they will be paid at a time and a half for the Saturday instead of a double time rale for the public holiday. Will the Minister examine this matter as one of urgency lo ensure that those public servants who are required to work on Christmas Day and New Year's Day, those days being Saturdays, will in fact be paid - at the rale of double time for work on those days? 
The Prime Minister has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Public Service Board has advised that, on 29th October 197), a letter was forwarded to eleven separate employee organisations in order to provide them with an opportunity to discuss (he proposed arrangements for the forthcoming Christmas/New Year period. The objective was to ensure that the majority view of Staff Associations was known so that appropriate action could be taken. 
Those Associations that responded indicated that the holiday arrangements proposed represented the most acceptable alternative available. 
 The decision that Saturday 25th December and Saturday 1st January 1972 were lo be regarded as ordinary working days was made with a view to providing the greatest benefit to staff from the available holidays. It is to be noted that all staff, including those rostered to work on those days are compensated by the fact that another holiday will be observed in place of Saturday 25 th December and also in place of Saturday 1st January. 
The Board advised that, in the circumstances, it was unable lo agree to any alteration lo the proposed holidays. 
There is in existence the Drug Evaluation Committee as well as other committees which deal with drugs. This is a very topical subject. I receive many letters from senators and members of the other place seeking, on behalf of constituents, a wider application of certain medicines. Whilst the pharmaceutical schedules provide that doctors can prescribe in certain dosages, in other cases in which the doctor is prepared to indicate the circumstances the dosage can be given over a longer period than otherwise would apply.  Senator Mulvihill  has raised a very important matter. Without reflecting in any way on the views expressed by  Dr Milner  - I am talking now in the generality - I. would not like the honourable senator or anyone, else to think that the matter of the quantum of availability of medicines or drugs is not constantly under review. In fact, the matter is currently being examined. 
Fill AIRCRAFT 
(4.35) - The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy),  having gone through the mechanics of parliamentary procedure, has proposed for discussion as a matter of urgency: 
The desirability of establishing a national organisation to prepare for and deal with the effects of natural disasters such as fires, floods, droughts, cyclones and earth movements. 
I do not offer any criticism of the wording in the generality. The Leader of the Opposition admits that he is using the vehicle of a parliamentary procedure to express a view in relation to how natural disasters should be dealt with in Australia. He makes the point, I think very properly, that Australia is a big land mass and is a country if not prone at least susceptible to the vagaries of the seasons, particularly in terms of Mood, storm and tempest and bush fire and, to a lesser extent, the other elements to which he has referred. He says, in effect, that because we meet a national disaster situation in an ad hoc fashion we tend to deal with such a situation in an ad hoc way. He suggests then that we should give consideration to the proposition that we create a body - presumably a Commonwealth body but at any rate a body to operate across the face of the Commonwealth - to meet these disastrous situations as they arise. Let me look at this proposition, lt is not a new proposal. lt is true that the Leader of the Opposition has brought the proposition up to date by reference to what has happened in more contemporary times in the United States of America and Canada. But it is not a new proposal. We have dealt with similar proposals in this place. I think that the late  Senator Cohen  raised it- 

Yes, in 1968 and  Senator Murphy  raised the matter again subsequently. We have had debates on this matter. 1 notice in the records, in the very few moments that I have had to put my mind to this urgency motion, that- 

Yes, the Australian Democratic Labor Party has raised it at another level. 
No, it is not. At all times when the Senate has debated this subject the debate has been of a fairly high level. This is the present situation: The Commonwealth Parliament and the State parliaments operate under the Commonwealth Constitution. The States have sovereignty. The powers which the Commonwealth has in our nation are powers which were given to it by the States. Those powers are limited under the Constitution and the residual powers remain with the States. What may have been done under wartime conditions has a different constitutional application, I say without developing the matter very much, from what we are confronted with now. Reference has been made to Canada which is a federation. The situation that arises there is the reverse of that in Australia and references to Canada therefore are not necessarily applicable. The position in the United States, to which I will refer in a moment, may have some overtones of alteration that we would not be able to apply here. 
In the context that the proposal that we should establish a national organisation for the reasons outlined in the motion is not a new one, it is appropriate to remember that this concept was raised at Premiers Conference level as far back as 1959. Perhaps the overtones of more recent times were not present. Recently more disastrous situations have arisen. But this matter certainly was raised at the Premiers Conference in 1959. Whilst certainly at that time some of the Premiers were thinking more in terms of a fund rather than an authority, essentially within the concept of establishing a fund there must be an authority to administer that fund. The Premiers, after debating this matter at Premiers Conference level in 1959 - I think that I had this reference incorporated in Hansard on the last occasion when we dealt with this matter - did not react to the concept in the way of accepting the suggestion of the etsablishment of a fund and an authority. 
That brings me to reflect on what happens now and how the present arrangements work in principle. The States have their sovereignty. They exercise control over local government authorities which are the bodies closest to the circumstances of disasters when they occur. In passing, it is not unfair to refer to the fact that the references made by  Senator Murphy  to the body to bc created spell out that the work that will bc done by this organisation will be carried out in close co-operation with State authorities and local government bodies. I think that those are the words that were actually used. I am paraphrasing, but I think that is what was said. 

So the situation is that the States have their responsibilities and their revenue raising capabilities. But when a State believes that a disaster has occurred which in its judgment primarily in the first instance is a national disaster in respect of which it believes rf has not the resources, the ability or the financial resources to deal with the situation with the speed and urgency needed, that State has access to the Commonwealth. It does not have access in the simple way that we all have access to the Commonwealth, that is, through a department, through a member of Parliament or a Minister or in any similar way. A State has direct access to the Prime Minister of the Commonwealth of Australia. In that way that State has access to the absolute source of power. That access is not limited by any of the restrictions that might be inherent in or involved with an authority responsible for handling national disasters. The State concerned has immediate access to the Commonwealth through the Australian Prime Minister. 
The records show - and if 1 have time 1 will refer to them a little later - that where the Commonwealth accepts that indeed a national disaster has occurred the resources of the Commonwealth then are channelled to the State concerned which uses those resources as it feels it is best capable of doing. It is worthy of note in passing that the aid of this type given to Queensland in 1970-71 through this system was $14.365m. 1 have no doubt that in the current financial year, having regard to the tragedy of the disasters that have occurred in Queensland, the assistance that will be provided will be significant. The procedure is such that the system operates in the very way that  Senator Murphy  has suggested the schemes in Canada and the United States work. The process of the flow of assistance in Australia is through the national Parliament to the local government level. In the United States, the concept is different because the role of the  President  is different from that of our parliamentary institutions and our State and local government authorities. 
In considering this motton we are discussing the merit or the efficacy of establishing a national authority to deal with national disasters. The only basic difference at this point in time as I see it between what we are doing and what  Senator Murphy  is suggesting that we should do is this: If an authority is set up, obviously that authority must conform with certain statutory provisions, requirements and limitations of our laws and if it is to be set up in such a way that it will not be served in terms of revenue direct from the national Government, obviously it is established with some means of raising revenue. I wonder - and this is the burden of what I am saying under one heading at any rate - whether the creation of another bureaucratic organisation would be any improvement on the set of procedures we have at present. I do not know. I suppose the gravaman of the point we are making is whether the creation of an authority would expedite and be more efficacious than the procedures we have at present. I do not think it would. 1 think it would tend to slow down the machinery and tend to be hidebound by a requirement of an Act of Parliament which created it and constant limitations produced by circumstances which we do not have at present. While f accept that it is a good idea to have a discussion on this matter, I do not think that the proposals up to this point of time as put by the honourable senator - and that is not a criticism of him because this is a pretty wide subject for an urgency debate for which we have a limited amount of time - have been proven. 
After all, the Commonwealth is the supreme governmental power in the nation, lt can pull the lever and call to meet its demand all the avenues of government and all of the avenues of departments. Equally the Commonwealth, by the pressing of a button if it wills, can call emergency aid from the armed Services - the Army, Navy and Air Force. In fact, this has been done, particularly in modern times, when helicopters and fast vessels have been called in to give help. The armed forces have the ability to give immediate service in critical situations. They have done a magnificent job for Australia. So the Federal Government, through the exercise of its supreme power in relation to its own Services, can call in this kind of aid. The Commonwealth also can call in Commonwealth departments to assist as required. Even the Commonwealth Department of Health can quickly call to meet its demand special services, for instance, in the field of drugs or medical aid. These sorts of service do not have to be co-ordinated in the sense that a new authority would have to be established to do this kind of work. 
The influence of the Commonwealth is spread over the whole of Australia. An authority set up in Canberra would not have all the services that  Senator Murphy  suggested would be needed. The Commonwealth Government has all those services. As I have said, it is the government that can press a button and put those services into action. The State governments, which act as an agency for the Commonwealth, and which make claims for aid and assistance, have through their departments tremendous resources at their disposal. The States also can draw on the resources of local government, as mentioned by  Senator Murphy  when he was speaking about the 
American scene. Therefore I say (hat the system that we have at the moment would not be as clumsy or cumbersome and would not be as much loaded with the implications of management as the  system  proposed by  Senator Murphy. 
I concede that an alternative to the present system would have to be canvassed. However, if  Senator Murphy's  proposition had been that within the framework of a particular department of government there should be a co-ordinated setup. I would have thought that his case would have far greater validity. But I think that the case has not been proven yet. I believe that we should have this discussion and that various points of view should be put. I believe that some evaluation should be made of what has been said. 1 would not be averse to this subject being raised again because when we hear the other person's point of view we can go away and evaluate our own judgment on these sorts of things. I am of opinion that the procedure that we have between the Commonwealth and S'ate governments to deal with the national calamities which regrettably do occur is generally expeditious. This procedure operates between the first person in the land in terms of political positions and the Premiers, who are the first citizens in their respective States, and flows on through them to municipalities. It is a system which enables expeditious action, when needed, to be taken. The States do not go to the Commonwealth and say: 'Under section 64 of the Calamities Act we call upon you to provide certain things for certain organisations'. Governments say: 'We will do the job'. They do it with all of the power and the legislative resource which they have. They have the capacity to operate in this way. 
I would not like to see at this point in our history a new authority created - a new authority which is to be an amalgam of the Commonwealth and the States. As I have said, the creation of an authority was looked at by the States as far back as 1939 and they saw that inherent, in such a proposition were all sorts of problems. I think this is why the States did not respond to the proposition.  Senator Murphy  has not canvassed the question of whether the authority would have the right to raise its own revenue. That would be an implication in itself. He has not canvassed whether the authority would be run by Commonwealth funds or by State funds or whether there would be a form or an insurance against storm, tempest and calamity. 
I know that the honourable senator is not. I merely make the point that the honourable senator has not canvassed those situations so it is difficult for us to make a real judgment on what has been proposed. Nor has the honourable senator indicated, as I understand it, what was being done in the Canadian and the United States scene in that regard, although I thought he did say that bodies could go to the  President  for special financial aid. 
I do not wish to develop my argument beyond that. 1 summarise by saying that I believe the system we have is effective because the line of communication is from the Prime Minister through the Premiers to the local government authorities. I believe that the Commonwealth in its own right, whether through the armed Services, through the aid of Commonwealth departments or indeed through all government departments, has the capacity to bring to bear with speed and precision the assistance that is necessary. I believe in turn that the Commonwealth, through assistance from the States, has a tremendous capacity to bring about effective relief. Moreover, I believe that the Commonwealth has an advantage when making a judgment as to how this relief is to be given at the source of the disaster. 1 believe that a local government authority, with all its knowledge of its own area, would be a far more logical body to ask for aid than would some statutory authority based in Canberra and, presumably, with its flanks in the various States. Such an authority would have to go to the source to get the information it needs so that justice could be done and so that associated things could be done in the right proportion. 
I haw a document - I will not incorporate it in Hansard - but it indicates that since 1950, when the scheme began, up to the end of the last financial year, the Commonwealth has made to various disaster areas grants of the order of $135m. That has been done under the system I have portrayed. 
I seek leave to have it incorporated in Hansard. 

<graphic href="051232197202233_23_0.jpg"></graphic>

In 1970-71, for instance, when we had disaster in New South Wales the Commonwealth provided $5.2m. Victoria - that wonderful State which never seems to suffer any of these types of disasters - received the modest sum of $43,000. Queensland received $14,365,000. That State had disasters of real magnitude. Other States received modest amounts. South Australia did not make any claim at all either in that year or in 1969-70. 
The point on which I conclude is that I believe that the arrangements that are entered into between the Commonwealth and the States can be efficient and are demonstrably more efficient than would be one more statutory authority which, with the best will in the world, would need to go back to the very place in which this matter is being administered now in order to do the job that we are doing. So, at this point of time I do not say that I oppose this proposal. 'Oppose' would be the wrong word to use. We are having a debate on proposals in general. Perhaps I could use a legal term and say that the case has not been proven at this point of time. It may well be that after this debate today we could have another debate on a subsequent occasion when some new elements might be introduced into the proposition that is being put by  Senator Murphy. 
(9.36)  -  In speaking to the motion I feel 1 owe a personal explanation to the Senate and indeed to  Senator Gair.  The fact is that yesterday I did have a discussion with the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  and I did suggest that we would dispose of his motion, which is No. 7, today as I felt that it was topical. It was put down on the business sheet and it would be good if we could dismiss it from the business sheet. It was understood that if an urgency motion should intervene the best thing to do would be to deal wilh  Senator Murphy's  motion immediately after disposing of the urgency motion. I thought 1 conveyed this arrangement  to  Senator Gair.  If I did not, I humbly apologise to him. Because of the pressure that 1 have been under for the last 48 hours it is conceivable that 1 failed to inform him. I feel that it would be appropriate tonight to deal with  Senator Murphy's  motion of which he gave notice, yesterday I think it. was. In fairness to  Senator Murphy,  I should say that I did indicate to him that the Government would be prepared to proceed with his motion and dispose of it today after any urgency motion, if an urgency motion was moved. 
(10.20) - Tonight we are confronted with a peculiar situation. I do not want to canvass the situation. We now have to deal with this motion when we did not expect that we would have to deal with it. Nevertheless, I do not think that is a justification for simply moving that the particular report be referred to the Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs without looking at the substance of the motion. I shall not talk about the matter of substance. I understand that my colleague the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  will refer to it during the course of the debate. As Leader of the Government in the Senate I would not be prepared to accept the proposition that the report referred to in the motion be referred to the Committee. I say that for a particular reason. That reason is fundamental to the matter of references to committees. I believe - I am sure that many members on the Government side believe and 1 have the feeling that members of  Senator Byrne's  Party and the main Opposition Party believe - that there is emerging a strong feeling that there should be no further references to committees when there are already references to those committees which, by the very nature of the references, will involve those committees in a very long and arduous period of meetings, the calling of witnesses and the examination of reports. 

 Senator Withers is the  Chairman  of the Constitutional and Legal Affairs Committee. Senators Byrne, Durack, Hannan, James McClelland and Murphy are the members of that Committee. The matters referred to it which are still unresolved and which are still for consideration are: The elimination of discrimination against Aborigines (including Torres Strait Islanders) by or under Commonwealth and State laws, which is a reference from 7th October 1971; and the law and administration of divorce, custody and family matters, which is a reference from 7th December 1971. No honourable senator would imagine that those 2 references would be resolved quickly. If I am any judge of the legal timbre of the members of the Committee- 

They are all lawyers in their own right. With great respect to  Senator Withers  - I knew he will be a stern  chairman  - anybody who says that that Committee will produce a report on those 2 references in the foreseeable future is living like Alice in Wonderland. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI do not think that. Those  2  references will demand a tremendous amount of time, effort and research by the Committee. If  Senator Byrne's  motion is carried one more item will be referred to the Committee. The merit of the motion has not been debated by the Senate. I believe that proposition is not one to which the Government can subscribe at this time. I would have thought that the correct procedure would be to raise the issue on another day. I understand that the . Attorney-General may have some remarks to make about that. Therefore I will cede to him and to the others who want to speak to the motion. In my judgment, not only in relation to this Committee but to many other committees, we have to start looking at the work . load placed on members of Senate committees. They have an obligation in plenary session, they have an obligation to their constituents and they have obligations in a number of areas. I feel that if they are completely absorbed in committee work that will militate against their ability to participate in the law making processes which occur in this place. For those reasons I am not prepared to support the motion. 

Pursuant to section 134 of the Superannuation Act 1922-1969, I present the 48th annual report of the Superannuation Board for the year ended 30th June 1970. 
Pursuant to section 12 of the Parliamentary Retiring Allowances Act 1948-68, I present the report of the Commonwealth Actuary on the Parliamentary Retiring Allowances Fund for the 4-year period ended 30th June 1970. 
(2.39)  -  I move: 
That business of the Senate, notices of motion Nos 1 to 6 be postponed until the next day of sitting.  lt is not proposed to rearrange the order of business except for the observation I made earlier in response to a question. If the Social Services Bill comes over from the other place I shall intercede to move for the suspension of Standing Orders to that it can be brought on and dealt with. 
(4.32) - J wish, by way of explanation, to detail what is proposed. I formally move: 
That intervening business be postponed until after the consideration of Government Business, Orders of the Day Nos 2 and  4. 
Order of the Day No. I has been postponed because the Opposition is not ready to go on with it. The Opposition has not had an opportunity to refer it to its Caucus. That is a fair enough reason for postponing if. Order of the Day No. 3 is one with which we dealt last week and on which, I believe, we have had a fair amount of debate. So, I suggest that we rearrange the order of business accordingly. After we have disposed of Orders of the Day Nos 2 and 4, we will automatically go down the notices of motion. The first no'.ice of motion is in the name of  Senator Willesee. 

Yes. We will deal with the notices of motion under Business of the Senate in the order in which they are on the notice paper. 1 do not expect Orders of the Day Nos 2 and 4 to take a great amount of time. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
by leave  -  I make the following statement on behalf of the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden),  who made it in the other place last Thursday. Where a first person pronoun is used, it refers to him. 
I take this opportunity, following the resumption of the Parliament, to inform honourable members at first hand about the current and prospective state of the economy, and about the policy actions taken by the Government since we last met here in December. In this statement I shall spell out what the Government's economic policy objectives are and have been; what they will continue to be in the future: the measures which the Government has taken in pursuit of them; and the flexibility and adequacy of those measures in the light of those objectives. In doing so I hope to provide, in particular, evidence of the strength of the economy and its potential for continued growth. 
By way of introduction to these themes, it may however be useful if I first say something about the present position and prospects of the economy as we see them. Al the Premiers Conference last week the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  outlined our latest assessment of the economic situation and the prospects over the months ahead. This assessment was the result of a very detailed and thorough examination of the economy which we had been undertaking since about mid-January. But I want to stress that, although this was a particularly detailed examination, it was nol an isolated one. On the contrary, as at the time of the Budget we undertook to do, we have maintained a virtually continuing review of the economy m recent months. The policy actions which have been taken from November onwards have been the measured outcome of this continuing review. 
There is no doubt that the strains which were affecting the economy a year or so ago have been dispelled. Their removal does not mean, however, that the underlying strength or growth potential of the economy has been impaired. On the contrary, its potential for strong and balanced growth has been enhanced. Some however have claimed  -  I would not say argued - that this otherwise desirable development has been achieved at the expense of bringing on a recession. A good many gloomy statements have been heard to thai effect. lt is important to be clear, therefore, that our review showed that the economy is far from being in a recessionary state. There are indeed some flat spots in the economy, of which the most notable and important is in the area of consumer spending. But demand and output overall have continued to grow at a moderate rate during recent months. Even in the absence of the policy actions which we have taken this month, they were expected to grow further. Such a situation is not, of course, what is wanted by those who enjoyed the over-buoyant conditions of a year or so ago but it is steady growth. On the basis of estimates made at the lime of our review, gross national product in real terms was expected to increase by about 4 per cent in 1971-72  -  that is. in the absence of any further action on our part. 
Undoubtedly, the predominant moderating influence on the growth of total demand has been the trend in consumer spending which, despite the strong growth in personal disposable incomes, has remained subdued. Our experience in this field during 1971 has. indeed, been rather remarkable. Although personal disposable incomes have been growing very fast in money terms throughout the period, there has as yet been little sign of any pick-up in the rate of growth of real consumer spending. As consumer prices have accelerated markedly over the period, the rate of growth of personal consumption expenditure in real terms has slowed. Perhaps one corollary of that could be that if wo could enjoy a greater measure of success in arresting the rate of rise of costs and hence prices, the rate of growth of real consumption might increase somewhat faster than it has of late. But whether that be so or not, it is clear that there was room here for some judicious addition, directly or indirectly, to demand and that is, of course, what we have done. 
In the field of private investment, however, dwelling construction turned upwards in the first half of 1971-72 and recent trends both in commencements and approvals, and particularly the recent record level of finance approvals, indicate a maintenance of this upward trend. Nondwelling investment has shown signs of levelling out - on the basis of preliminary and seasonally adjusted figures there was some decline in this area in the December quarter - and we are of course aware in that connection of the deferment of some major construction plans in the area of minerals development. It is however important to remember that this change is occurring from the basis of the extremely high growth rates of recent years. Given those growth rates - particularly in private non-residential building and construction and in the mining sector - this was only to bc expected. 
The external sector of the economy remains very strong. In the 6 months to December 1971 exports exceeded imports by $272m, compared with an excess of $!67m in the corresponding period of 1970. There should be a substantial increase in the net addition to overall demand in the economy during 1971-72 from the excess of exports over imports. Public authority spending, of which I shall have more to say later, has been strong. Monetary conditions are currently very easy. The volume of money, including bank deposits, has been growing fast and bank and private sector liquidity generally is currently at a high level. Trading bank lending has increased strongly over recent months. This suggests that our expansive policy on bank lending, first initiated last October and then carried further in December, is becoming effective. In the 3 months to mid-January new overdraft approvals averaged a weekly rate of about $43m compared with $35m in the preceding 3 months. Actual advances outstanding have also been rising strongly. The costs of finance have also been reduced in the economy. The Government has shown that it firmly intends that financial conditions will not be a restraining influence on the economy over coming months. On the side of production, a strong performance is continuing in most areas of manufacturing. In the December quarter, 24 of the 33 items for which figures are available recorded increases in output compared with the corresponding period of 1970. Of these increases 11, including all the consumer durable items, were of more than 10 per cent. There was also strong growth in the production of gas, plastics and synthetic resins, electricity, bricks and cement, confectionery and beer. The chief area of weakness has been in iron and steel, where production has been affected by a sharp run-down in orders as users adjusted their stock positions. According to the most recent information, this decline in orders has now largely ceased. 
I want here to make special mention of the prospects for rural industries. These are now more encouraging than they have been for a long time. In broad terms, 1971-72 is expected to see an increase of between 4 per cent and 5 per cent in the volume of rural production over the 1970- 71 level. The gross value of rural production is estimated to increase by some 6 per cent with a probable rise of 5 per cent in total farm costs. Farm income is estimated by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics at approximately $ 1,000m, an increase of II per cent over 1970-71. Within this total picture of the rural sector, a particularly welcome recent development is the improvement in the wool market. While markets by their nature are uncertain, it does appear that there may have been a genuine reversal of the downward trend which has afflicted the wool market for some time. More generally, however, there are encouraging signs across the broad spectrum of rural industries. Meat production, for example, has expanded rapidly and there has been a concurrent expansion in exports. Of particular significance here is the prospect of larger quotas for beef and mutton in the United States. Sugar production is at record levels and favourable world free market prices seem in prospect at least until the current international sugar agreement expires in 1973. Wheat, although it cannot be expected to maintain the record sales levels of 1970- 71, is expected to have another good year. 
Production, and hence deliveries, was below the quota set for 1971-72, largely because of adverse weather conditions, but carryover stocks for 1973 are likely to be at their lowest level for a number of years. The international dairy products marketing situation has continued on a very firm note with record export prices prevailing. The Government is, naturally, extremely pleased about these improved prospects for many of our rural industries. I must however emphasise that we remain as determined as ever to meet the underlying longterm needs for structural change in this sector of the economy. 
Our recent review of the economy included a review of the situation in the labour market, about which so much has been said recently. Unemployment has concerned me personally and the Government very much. This concern was of course, reflected in the decisions we reached and which were announced by the Prime. Minister at the Premiers Conference. Nevertheless in this context I should put it factually. After a marked rise in August and September, the seasonally adjusted level of unemployment at the end of January had risen only 0.08 per cent above the end-September level. That is to say, during the past 4 months the level has inched upwards by only 0.02 per cent per month on average. The fact is that the present unemployment position is little different from the longer-term pattern. Unemployment, whether measured over a 10-year or a 15-year period, has averaged about 1.4 per cent of the work-force, which compares with the present seasonally adjusted level of 1.61 per cent. In passing, 1 note that it is proper to compare any seasonally adjusted monthly figure with an average over a year of a number of years, since such averaging by definition resolves the question of seasonality. If allowance is made for the fact that an important part of the unemployment situation today is the result of the difficult situation which has confronted some of our rural industries, the difference from the long term norm is even smaller. 
The fullness of these facts has not been picked up by some observers. But the facts are as I have stated them; and those facts make nonsense of some irresponsible predictions I have seen reported. For example, one earlier this month was to the effect that another 50,000 people could be out of work within 2 or 3 months. We are not going to have 170,000 registered unemployed by April. In saying this, I must put aside the possibility of some temporary aberration wrought by some major industrial stoppage such as wc have seen recently in Victoria. On the contrary, possibilities of that kind apart, I expect in February a considerable reduction in the absolute number of registered unemployed. [ also expect the downward trend in numbers to continue in the months that follow. Whatever may be said about the unemployment situation, however, one thing clearly stand out. Whereas the unemployment situation is, as I have said, broadly in line wilh the long term norm, by contrast the rate of increase in prices now is very much further away from what has been the long term experience. This is undoubtedly the most difficult problem currently facing the Australian economy. Over the space of 12 years or so we have moved from a position in which prices were increasing at about their average long term rate - around 21 per cent - to one in which the underlying trend seems to be about 13 times as steep. Whereas our rate of price inflation was, 2 years ago, quite favourable compared with most other developed economies, we are now doing worse than average.  Mr Deputy President,   ask for leave of the Senate for the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman)  to continue the presentation of this ministerial statement. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- ls leave granted? There being no objection leave is granted. 
(8.36)  -  in reply - I wish to close the debate with a quick contribution. I did not speak on this matter when I moved the relevant motion. 1 do not agree with the interpretation that  Senator Cavanagh  puts on paragraph 3 of the report of the Senate House Committee relating to senators' dress in the Senate chamber. That paragraph states in part: 
The  Committee  is of the opinion, however, that the wearing of shorts is not appropriate in places where formal business is being transacted and that it does not accord with the dignity of the Senate Chamber. 
If this report is adopted, I do not- think that that passage will mean arbitrarily that no honourable senator, if he so desires, can enter the Senate chamber dressed in shorts. What it says is that he will do so in the face of the opinion of the Senate. The Senate Committee has said that it does not think that the wearing of shorts is in accordance with the dignity of the Senate. That is my understanding of the report. 

The Chair is above the controversies that occur on the floor of the Senate. That is a matter upon which 1 would not presume to reflect. But my clear understanding of the recommendation of the Committee is that this is a judgment that the individual senator concerned would need to make in good faith. If he did wear shorts, he would be doing so in the teeth of an opinion - that is the word to cover what the report states - that has been expressed. This is the judgment that he would need to make. 
I refer now to a couple of other things that have been said. I assure  Senator McLaren  that there was never any suggestion that the decision that he or the other senators took constituted an improper action in relation to the Senate. They did what they did in good faith. I do not think that that was ever challenged. The question that arises is the opinion as to the dignity of the Senate. That was the only question. No reflection was cast on those senators personally. I think that we all agree that when those senators did enter the chamber in shorts their rig was an example of the best type of shorts that they could have worn in the circumstances. Let us not have any idea that this expression of opinion is directed at them. 
Finally, reference was made by  Senator Cavanagh  to the fact that it was traditional for ladies to wear stays and for gentlemen to wear bowler hats and to carry furled umbrellas as part of the dress of their office, and those days have gone. Let me say that this reminds me of the expression: The wider the brim the fewer the acres' as applied to people in country areas. It does not signify anything. Beauty is in the eye of the beholder. In relation to the point that  Senator Cavanagh  makes, do not ever forget that there is an inverted snobbery side to it. I do not need to develop the inverted snobbery angle. I believe that this all-Party Committee is merely expressing the view, on the balance if honourable senators like, that it feels that the wearing of shorts in the Senate is not in accord with the dignity of the high office that we hold. The report says no more than that. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
(9.5) - The Government will oppose this motion which is in the name of  Senator Willesee.  The motion is in these terms: 
That there be referred to the Standing Committee of Finance and Government Operations the following matter - The structure, recruitment and management of the Commonwealth Public Service. 
First of all I wish to say something about standing committees in general. I want to repeat that a fundamental situation has emerged in this Senate in relation to the creation of standing committees as a result of our own decisions, for which of course the Government has to accept a degree of responsibility. I think in fact 7 new committees have been created, but if we look at the notice paper we find that we have something like 14 Senate committees. True it is that some of them do not meet very often. I think one of them has not met at all in the 18 years that I have been in the Senate. Nevertheless, there are 14 of them. 

That is right. 1 wish to refer honourable senators to page 21 of the document entitled 'Committees of the Australian Senate'. Paragraph 10 of appendix D reads: 
A Standing Committee shall not meet while the Senate is actually sitting, unless by special order of the Senate. 
Although in general we have put our hearts against such a request, certain committees have put very strong cases and circumstances which have required us to agree to it. Paragraph 1 1 reads: 
Unless it be otherwise specially provided by the Standing Orders, the reference of a matter to a Standing Committee shall be on Motion after Notice. Such Notice of Motion may be given - 
in the usual manner when Notices are given at the beginning of the business of the day; or 
at any other time by a  Senator - 
stating its terms to the Senate, when other business is not before the Chair; or 
delivering a copy to the  Clerk  . . . Any such Notice of Motion shall be placed on the Notice Paper for the next sitting day as 'Business of the Senate' and, as such, shall take precedence of Government and General Business set down for that day. 
The operative words to which I wish to draw attention are 'shall take precedence of Government . . . Business'. If we look at our business paper for today we find under the heading 'Notices of Motion' that there are no less than 4 references to standing committees. We in this Senate have reached the situation where it has become almost a physical impossibility to service the programmes of standing committees as they are put down. Except on the days when we are scheduled to rise at 10.30 or 11 o'clock but do not adjourn, any honourable senator can give notice on any working day of the Senate that he will move on the next day of sitting that a matter be referred to a standing committee, and on the next day of sitting that notice of motion takes precedence. In a Senate where we have under proportional representation 2 major parties which will always be very close to one another in numbers, together with independents and a third political party here, and because of the procedure in relation to referring matters to standing committees, inevitably the Government must lose control of the management of this Parliament. 
We are getting to a situation and may well reach a situation where, if we do not have the high degree of co-operation which  1  as Leader of the Government feel bound to say we do have and have had - this is to our own credit all round and is an ingredient which is not written into any constitution - the management of the Senate during the life of this Parliament or future Parliaments could be completely stalemated. Any honourable senator could wake up any morning and think: 'What shall I do today? I shall move for a Standing Committee on something?' I do not suggest that this is the case with the reference proposed by  Senator Willesee.  I shall come to the substance of that a little later in my remarks. However, I should like to have this view recorded in Hansard because I suggest that all honourable senators will have to bite the bullet on the question of references to committees before we go very much further. If we continue to refer matters to committees we will arrive at a situation where the working of the Senate will become unmanageable because of the functions being performed by standing committees. We must come to some realisation of the situation to avoid the situation becoming unmanageable in terms of the Government controlling the business of the Senate. 
If we continue to refer matters to committees the work of the Senate will become unmanageable through the sheer exhaustion of honourable senators trying to do more than they are physically able to do. All honourable senators know as they look me in the eye that that is true. We now have honourable senators from both sides of the chamber attending committees and spending time on that work out of all proportion to the time that they can reasonably afford to give, having in mind their responsibilities to their constituencies. Honourable senators in this place come from the highways and byways throughout the whole of the Commonwealth of Australia, a country which embraces one of the world's largest earth masses. 
When considering the demands that committee work makes upon all senators we must bear in mind that some of the old and bold among us obviously are not able to give as much as others to committee work. When it comes to the manning of committees, if we leave out from our con- sideration the 5 Ministers, the Presiding Officer and  Chairman  of Committees, and when we take into account also the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  and Leader of the Democratic Labor Party  (Senator Gair),  as well as the Whips who have other duties to perform, we are putting upon the remaining senators a load which is out of all proportion to what can reasonably be expected of them. We must bear in mind also that some honourable senators will become sick or tired, or perhaps have to retire from committee work. If we face the situation squarely we must arrive at the conclusion that, contrary to what people generally think about the work of parliamentarians, and particularly senators, what is being required of them is out of all proportion to what can be expected of them as a contribution to the nation. One honourable senator on this side of the chamber has been serving on 7 committees, and I understand that some honourable senators from the other side of the chamber are members of 5 or 6 committees. This situation arises simply because we have not enough bodies to man the committees. 
The Committee to which the honourable senator proposes to refer a matter is the Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations, a Committee which already is in existence and which already has a reference. Already the Committee has referred to it a reference to consider: 
The effects of Estate and like duties on the public revenues and the economic circumstances of individuals and communities, and the social consequence of such duties. 
I invite honourable senators to consider the personnel who compose that committee. If honourable senators do their homework they will discover on how many other committees these honourable senators serve and they would be appalled at the demands placed on them. I suggest that, considering only the reference to which I have just referred, the work of the Committee will take a considerable time. For how long was the Senate Select Committee on Off-Shore Petroleum Resources engaged in its task? Was it 3 years? 
Four years. I am not being facetious when I say that a consideration of the reference already before the Committee and the one proposed by  Senator Willesee  would make that 4 years seem like chicken feed. It would take the Committee 10 years to complete a consideration of those matters. I do not base this estimate on what I say but on what was said by  Senator Willesee  who has moved for this reference. Honourable senators will read in Hansard tomorrow what is contemplated by the honourable senator. I suggest that it is not real to expect a Senate committee to be required to undertake a consideration of a reference such as has been proposed by  Senator Willesee.  I felt that it was necessary to put these remarks on record. I might not be here 100 years from now, but I suggest that when I am thought of at some time in the future someone will say: 'Anderson said that, but it took us a long time to wake up. He proved to be right'. The truth is that we must rationalise our role as senators if we are to do the things that we need to do. This is a second chamber of the Parliament which has a responsibility to deal with legislation. It is true that the committee system has grown and that our Senate committees are able to carry out research and do certain things better than can be done in the other place, but it is true also that we will destroy ourselves if we become too ambitious and try to develop the committee system too much. 
I come now to the matter of substance contained in the motion.  Senator Willesee  said that at the last head count, for which he had to go back some time, there was of the order of 237,000 Commonwealth public servants and about 85,000 members of the permanent forces. Of the 237,000 public servants about 110,000 were employed by the Postmaster-General's Department. The honourable senator did not include in the figures he cited people employed by statutory bodies and other fringe organisations who in many ways could be regarded as public servants because they perform a public service under special Acts of the Parliament. If all those were added to the numbers mentioned by the honourable senator we would have a tremendous number. I am sure that the honourable senator would agree with that. 
Yes, the honourable senator was narrowing his comment to those who came under the 
Public Service Board, which includes persons employed under the Commonwealth Public Service Act, the Superannuation Act, the Commonwealth Employees' Compensation Act and various supply and development Acts. All employees under these Acts come under the aegis of the Commonwealth Public Service Board. We must include also those who are employed by the statutory authorities. Although they may not come under the Public Service Board in a direct sense, they are related in the sense of the argument which was presented by  Senator Willesee.  The honourable senator has suggested that the structure, recruitment and management of the Commonwealth Public Service be referred to the Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations. 
I should like to make the point that people tend to fall into the error of referring to scribblers in the Public Service in the same tone as they use when referring to mothers-in-law. In the same way as they tell a story about a mother-in-law they refer to the terrible public servants - the terrible bureaucrats. Public servants are criticised out of all proportion to the work that they do. The Public Service in Australia is made up of a wonderful body of people. I do not suggest that  Senator Willesee  was criticising them in any way, but there is a tendency to refer to public servants as though they were a bunch of no-hopers, as though they were incompetent, lazy, and indifferent, and as though they do not know what they are doing. Yet it is a fact of life that people leave our Public Service for employment with private enterprise and they are much sought after because of the tremendous skills and capabilities that they possess in terms of management, judgement and know-how. 
I do not want it ever to be thought that there is a high degree of incompetence among Commonwealth public servants. These people do not live in the cloisters, as could be inferred from  Senator Willesee's  remarks. There would not be a department under the control of the Public Service Board which does not have officers constantly going about the world to make themselves aware of what is happening in other places. There seems to be a suggestion that our public servants are living in the horse and buggy days while others live in the day of modern aircraft. The public servant today is competent, well informed and aware of what is going on in other parts of the world because the bigger Commonwealth departments are constantly sending people all round the world. 1 know this to be so because I have administered 3 departments. There is a constant flow of officers about the world to compare what is being done in management in other places with what is being done in Australia. While talking about the PostmasterGeneral's Department, may I say that we have a mail handling centre in Redfern which is regarded as one of the most efficient mail handling centres in the world. 
This is true. The honourable senator may criticise it but that does not weaken the fact that it is one of the most efficient mail handling centres that the Free World has seen. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI am not talking about the cost; I am talking about its efficiency. If the honourable senator cannot relate cost to efficiency, I cannot do anything about that. I am making the point that the Public Service is not incompetent. It is not. We are not living in splendid isolation. We are sending people all over the world all the time in order to keep abreast with what is being done. Simply to say that we are falling down on the job because we have only 80 computers- 
That was the clear inference. 
I will do that. That beggars what a computer does. A computer can have a tremendous implication. I suggest that the honourable senator look at the Department of Supply and the Postmaster-General's Department. 
I think there was a reference to the number of them  -  80 of them. 

If I have misinterpreted what  Senator Willesee  said I will be the first to acknowledge it. 1 am making the point that we are not going to allow the Public Service to be taken apart for incompetence in that sense. 1 want to refer to some other angles, and I now come to the gravamen of the proposition. Some reference was made to secrecy in the Public Service. The suggestion is thai we should not have to have secrecy in the Public Service. I concede that this is a grey area but management in any field requires a high degree of loyalty and secrecy. If it is being suggested -  Senator Willesee  touched very briefly on this point - that secrecy is going to impinge upon the employment of public servants, I think that that would be the greatest injustice of all to them. You cannot have it that way. Every officer who joins the Public Service takes an oath of some form or other and must live within it. For instance, in the Post Office, we could not have a situation where the Government was considering a policy matter and then be able to read about it in the newspapers on the next day. 
Reference has been made to what happens in other parts of the world. My goodness, I read a case involving a parliamentarian in London. If I dug hard enough into my brain I think I could mention the man's name. This parliamentarian collaborated with somebody in the Public Service and released some information that he should not have announced and he was dealt with very critically. I would be the first to concede that the matter of secrecy is a very difficult one but I think the reservation of the strength of the Public Service requires a high degree of loyalty to the job and secrecy. Inevitably the higher you go in the Public Service, where public servants are dealing with matters of high policy, there can be nothing but secrecy. Imagine what would happen in the field of foreign affairs if everybody could swing high and low. A person could sit on the phone and listen to grave matters of international secrecy being handled between nations and we could read about it in the Press the next day. It is just not on. 

This is a grey area in which you have to make a decision as to where you go. 
We must have loyalty and secrecy, lt has to be. Let us look at the question of locking up knowledge. I suppose that the honourable senator means that knowledge is being locked up in the area of promotion. 

The honourable senator's response is the very point 1 am making. A judgment has to be made particularly in the higher echelons, as to what can be released. The honourable senator is getting into a difficult area. The other thing I want to refer to quickly before leaving this matter is the reference by  Senator Willesee  to the Post Office.  Senator Gair,  or somebody else in the Democratic Labor Party, moved for the creation of a statutory body. I suggest that the mover of that motion did not put that suggestion forward in terms of the background of the motion now before us. The suggestion was made in a different set of circumstances altogether. That motion was not dealt with on the basis of the structure, recruitment and management of the Commonwealth Public Service. It was moved in the context of separation in a world-wide situation. We have a certain set-up in the Public Service in Australia and I think the argument at that time was that certain parts of the Post Office could be separated in much the same way as the 
Overseas Telecommunications Commission is a separate body. As I remember it, the argument revolved around the structure. 
That was one of the suggestions. I am relying on my memory. Before letting this matter be I want to say that we on the Government side resist this motion. We resist it firstly because the very wide canvas of the motion would place a burdensome task on the Standing Committee. The Committee already has a reference before it which could take another  12  or  18  months to complete. Secondly - I do not want to be thought to be offensive to any honourable senator, on either the Government side or the Opposition side - I do not think that a Senate standing committee is the body to do the sorts of things that  Senator Willesee  has suggested should be done. I do not believe that the Standing Committee would have time to make this examination. Speaking bluntly, I do not think it has the competence. By nature we are not efficiency experts in that sense. The Public Service calls in all sorts of advisers with expertise in specialised fields. I do not believe that we have that expertise. I think the Standing Committee would be laborious in the way it went about calling evidence on the know-how, knowledge and expertise involved. For those reasons, with the greatest goodwill in the world, the Government believes that this work is beyond the competence of the Standing Committee, brilliant and enthusiastic though Its members may be. I do not believe that as a team it would have the necessary ingredients to do the things suggested. Certainly its members would not have the physical capacity to do it. For those reasons T have to indicate that the Government cannot support the proposition. 
(3.33) - The Government, and I as Leader of the Government in the Senate, will resist the motion. We will resist it wholeheartedly and in so doing will indicate our support for  Senator Greenwood  who holds the office of Attorney-General 


 Sir, the point that you made about hearing  Senator Murphy  would, I hope, apply to me. during my speech. 
 Senator Murphy  started his speech to this motion by pontificating, if I may use that word, on the role and function of AttorneysGeneral and quoted certain authorities. He spoke of duties and restraints. He used legalism as the backdrop to what he went on to say subsequently but I am not going to involve myself greatly in that particular side because we also have legal senators on the Government side of the chamber who will respond to it in a very forthright way. It was a debating point in which he was setting the ground for what he wanted to say subsequently. I would be the first to recognise that there, is a responsibility attached to the office of AttorneyGeneral, as there is to the office held by everybody in the Parliament, be it the Prime Minister, a Minister of State or a leader of a party, whatever the party. Indeed, there, is a responsibility on honourable senators and members of Parliament to which I will refer later on. 
But the proposition that holding the office of Attorney-General means that a Minister must therefore sit in the cloisters and never involve himself in anything in the field of party politics is completely unreal. This has been demonstrated in this place during the life of the present AttorneyGeneral. He has been assailed and assailed and assailed by honourable senators who sit on the Opposition side. An acceptance of  Senator Murphy's  argument would mean that the Attorney-General would be required to sit in the Senate, which is a House of politics, not as a senator but as one who sits in stately splendour. I remind the Senate that in the first instance, he is here as a senator and as a member of a political party. After all, even  Senator Turnbull,  who appears to be seeking to interject, had a political party once. The fact of the matter is that the office of Attorney-General is a high office. Does  Senator Murphy  seriously suggest that within the realm of party politics in Australia, a system in which I believe and which in my view is one of the wonders of this age- 

Is it suggested, even by  Senator James  McClelland, that once a senator becomes Attorney-General he should merely sit in this place, never reacting to any matter but merely passing judgments on legal matters? I suppose that when he is required to stand for election the Opposition will not oppose his re-election! Like hell it will! I am not a lawyer but I suggest that there is no need to say more on that aspect. 
I do not walk away from the fact that in the case to which we are referring the Attorney-General was required to make a judgment and did make a judgment. I believe that he made his judgment fairly. The argument that was adduced in the first place as support for the motion has to be narrowed a little and has to be understood in the context of the party system which operates in Australia. In concluding my remarks on that point I suggest that honourable senators opposite should read the Hansard report of the last session and see what the Attorney-General was subjected to in this place. Was he able to remain in the cloisters at that time? No, he was subjected to a vigorous fire of the kind that we experience in a party House. 
He responded to them, and because he showed that he has what it takes to fight back honourable senators did not like it. I want to be fair to  Senator Murphy  by agreeing that it was necessary for a judgment to be made, and I accept that the Attorney-General made his judgment. 
At this stage I should like to refer briefly to the motion and to reflect upon the political procedures which are being adopted in the Parliament. We are living in a political climate in which certain political procedures are being adopted. Because it is an election year these political procedures are being revealed in the machinery of government and the machinery of opposition. This situation is not peculiar to the Senate, i had hoped that the tendency to adopt these procedures would not become evident in this place, but we see them, whenever the proceedings are being broadcast, notably in the other place but also, I regret to say, in this chamber, in the use of the forms of the House and other parliamentary procedures in debates on matters of urgent public importance, motions of no confidence and debates on grievance day. A want of confidence motion was moved in the other place yesterday, and another motion is being debated there today. I suggest that an element of that character has come into the proceedings of the Senate. The forms of the House are being used to permit debates on various matters, the purpose being to take the management of the Senate away from the Government. Procedures of this kind do not add very much to the machinery of government or help us to meet our responsibilities. But these procedures are permissible within our system of government, so I suppose we must live with them.  1  suggest that the motion that we are discussing demonstrably is intended as a diversionary tactic because the judgment made by the Attorney-General flushed out certain implications in the political arena. It is for this reason and as a consequence of this that the diversionary tactic has been adopted. I shall deal with that aspect in some sort of sequence a little later in my remarks. The first portion of the motion moved by  Senator Murphy  states: 
That  Senator Greenwood  has dishonoured the office of Attorney-General: 
by making prejudicial statements about one Barry Johnston who has been charged but not yet tried on an information alleging a breach of the National Service Act . . . 
The Attorney-General, in fact, in a Press statement that  Senator Murphy  himself read out, made abundantly clear and reaffirmed his view. He said: 
If  Senator Murphy  reads my statement he will see that 1 made no judgment on any matter before the court. 
That is the view the Attorney-General takes and, as we examine it on our side, we believe that he has not made a judgment at all and has not reflected upon an ultimate decision of a court in that matter. Therefore, accepting that as we do and believing that as we do, we must resist this motion very firmly. 
Let me move to the second portion of the motion. I think the cat got out of the bag there, because it reads: 
by involving the office of Attorney-General in a party political controversy in connection with that pending criminal case. 
As we see this matter, it is because  Senator Greenwood  has flushed out the political implications for the Labor Party in this issue that we have this diversionary tactic today. Without giving too much emphasis to it, let me mention that we all know it is true that the Labor Party has a selected candidate for a seat in the State of Victoria for a pending Federal election. Whether or not the Attorney-General,  Senator Murphy,  myself or anybody else spoke about it or went around this place whispering about it, it is public knowledge through the normal processes of the media. It is also public knowledge through the media that there is a warrant out for that candidate's arrest. It is equally true that he has been avoiding that warrant. In fact, it transpires that while a warrant has been out for his arrest, which he is avoiding - and that is public knowledge - he has actually been hosted by the State  President  of the Labor Party in Victoria. This is a public fact: He has been hosted by leading members of the Labor Party in Victoria and has been in their company. 
Then, taking it the next step, he has been defended by the official Leader of the Opposition in the other place and Leader of the Labor Party  (Mr Whitlam),  even though it is acknowledged that he is evading the due processes of a warrant of arrest. That is a political fact. It is suggested that I as a Minister, the Attorney-General or anybody else cannot make reference to that, although it is written all over the newspapers of Australia? I just do not follow the logic of that at all. 
Having dealt with the first part of  Senator Murphy's  motion - I repeat that the judgment which the Attorney-General has made and which we accept is that he has made no judgment of guilt or otherwise on the matter before the Court - I come to the second part of the motion. I wish to deal with it a little further. I want to put the situation of an ordinary citizen. If an ordinary citizen was confronted with a person with whom he were associated and he knew that that person was evading the law in that a warrant was out for his arrest, what would that ordinary citizen do? Would he not say to that person: 'I advise you, I suggest to you, I even plead with you as a law abiding citizen to go and meet the situation, observe the processes of the law and do not reflect upon the ultimate'. That is what I would do; it is what any ordinary citizen would do. 
What would the Opposition expect a member of the legal profession to do? What would be the ethical conduct of such a man who was confronted with a situation in which someone who he knew or met or had referred to him had committed an offence? I might point out that I am dealing only in general with such a situation. What would a member of the legal profession do? What would his obligation be? Would it not be to say to such a person: Look, you have an obligation. There is a warrant out for your arrest. You must go and face up to the situation, because that is the law of the land - that is the way we live'. 
I will now bring this matter a bit closer to home. What is the obligation of a law maker, whether he be in this House or any other House of Parliament? If a constituent came to you and said: 'There is a warrant out for my arrest', what would you as a law maker say to him? Would you not say: 'I will do everything I can to help you, but I suggest to you that the first thing you must do is to report in because there is a warrant out for your arrest'. We could not live with any other proposition than that. 

I think that the honourable senator has betrayed his trust as a law maker if he did not. I repeat that if an honourable senator sils in this place, having taken the oath or made the affirmation, and someone approaches him, who in the senator's conscious knowledge has a warrant out for his arrest, surely to God the senator would say to that person: 'You must face up to your obligations before the law'. 

Here we have it - a nice distinction. I hope that what the honourable senator had to say will be recorded in Hansard. Let us forget the matter of substance in this situation. We have a case in which in the political sense  Senator Greenwood  has established that there is a person - I do not refer to the charge - who is being sought to appear before the court and who is evading the court. A warrant has been taken out for his arrest. The  president  of one of the Opposition's State branches, and indeed the Leader of the Opposition in another place, avoids the issue as to whether that person is breaking the law. I think that it is a fact of life that this attitude is wrong. Therefore, in my judgment I say that  Senator Murphy's  motion was intended as a diversionary tactic. I do not think that the case has been proven, or that there is a case, against  Senator Greenwood  in terms of the motion. I believe that  Senator Greenwood  made a judgment in relation to the responsibilities of the office which he holds. He made a judgment in relation to the fact that there was in the political arena a situation in which members of the Labor Party were avoiding their responsibilities as citizens in certain circumstances on the one hand and as law makers on the other. 

 Mr President, if you or anyone else has any doubt about what I have said I would like to refer to what the Press of this country have had to say in the last 2 days. I have with me articles which have appeared in the Sydney 'Sun', the Melbourne 'Herald', the 'Austraiian', the Canberra Times' and even the 'Daily Telegraph'. Honourable senators can read any one of these articles. Perhaps honourable senators would like me to read what they say about responsibility for the administration of the law. 1 would be happy to table any of the articles if anyone wants that. J shall read from the Sydney 'Sun'. I shall paraphrase what is written but I have lime to read it in the totality if honourable senators want that. In one part it states: 
The place for Australian political parties to change laws is in Parliament. 
That is a pretty powerful comment, is it not? This is the point I am making. An editorial in the Melbourne 'Age' stales: 
Good law or bad the National Service Act remains in force until amended or repealed. By  giving  support and protection to  Mr Johnston,  the Victorian ALI' is assisting a man for whom an arrest warrant ha.s been issued in accordance with that law. To do this is to hurl ridicule and contempt upon the rule of law, the cornerstone of the political system which a Labor Government would be obliged lo administer and protect. 
That is, if the Austraiian Labor Party ever gol into office. Because honourable senators are sitting on the cross benches, tha! does not absolve them from the responsibilities of the law. That is my addition to the editorial. We find the 'Australian' states: 
Defending (he local ALP choice of the draft resister, Barrie Johnston.  Mr Whitiam  said that he had not yet been convicted of breaking the law. This is itself is a specious way of begging the question, since the whole point of  Mr Johnston's  position is that he is in conscience and self-proclaimed defiance of the law. 
But [hen  Mr Whitlam  went further. Claiming that 'draft dodging is not a crime', He went on to explain: 'It is important for the public to realise we will do away wilh the draft'. 
This is tantamount to the curious suggestion that once a particular political party has decided it will repeal a law, when it can, that taw somehow loses all validity. 
This is the proposition the Press talks about in terms of the Leader of the Opposition in another place. He is a man not unaware of the law. if I may be permitted to say so.  I  do not want to go much on the point about the candidate on the run. A reference is made in the Canberra Times' in much the same pattern.  Mr President,  what  I  am saying is not something that  I  have dredged up. This is the almost unanimous view of the media and people who write - not always complimentary - about the Government. But they exercise their critical vein one way and another. I suggest that what this motion is at temp: ing to do - 1 do not think that it has succeeded on this level - is to create a diversionary situation against the facts as they have emerged. In conclusion 1 say that we in government do not accept that the Attorney-General has acted in a dishonourable way at all. We believe that he has acted in a completely honourable way and within the concepts of the parliamentary procedures that we enjoy here. He has not. reflected on the matter of substance, in relation to a particular person. He has of course, referred to the relationship be: ween the Opposition and a person who is one of its candidates for an election which is lo be held. The AttorneyGeneral has reflected on the position thai the avoidance of a warrant for arrest has been condoned by the official Opposition. 1 conclude: The Government has every confidence in the Attorney-General in this House. 
 Mr President,  can I presume on behalf of all honourable senators from all parties and officers of the Senate to say that it gladdens our hearts to see that you are recovering from your recent indisposition. 
Honorable senators  -  Hear, hear. 
ThePRESIDENT - Thank you very much. 
by leave - As announced by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  yesterday, the Commonwealth Government has decided to appoint an arbitrator to determine, for the purpose of the medical benefits scheme, fair and reasonable fees in New South Wales for general practitioner surgery consultations and home visits. The Honourable  Mr Justice  J. R. Kerr, C.M.G., has been appointed as the arbitrator.  Mr Justice  Kerr, a judge of the Commonwealth Industrial Court, has for some time teen  chairman  of the Committee of Inquiry on Pay for the Armed Services.  Mr Justice  Kerr's finding will be accepted by the Government as determining the appropriate fees for general practitioner consultations and home visits in New South Wales. In terms of the arrangement between the Government and the Australian Medical Association covering fees in all States, the common fees apply ing for these general practitioner services services relate to the 2 year period, 1st July 1971 to 30th June 1973. It is not proposed that this 2 year cycle be varied as a result of putting the New South Wales fees to Arbitration. It is intended that fees determined by the arbitrator for New South Wales will be regarded as the adjusted common fees until the end of the current 2 year period, namely 30th June 1973. There will be no retrospectivity, either by way of increase or decrease, in relation to the period between 1st July 1971 and the date the arbitrator's finding is implemented. After implementation of the arbitrator's finding within the medical benefits schedule - which sets the benefits  to  be paid for particular medical services - firm assurances will  be  sought from the Australian Medical Association that there will be general observance of the fees so that they will, in fact, become the most common fees. 
The Government also has decided that if. after implementation of the arbitrator's finding, there is a failure by the medical profession to achieve a high level of observance of the common fees, other measures will be considered. The arbitrator will conduct hearings in public. It is the Government's express desire that the inquiry be completed bythe end of April. 
The general factors which the arbitrator will be asked to take into consideration are similar to those which were taken into account in the determination of the common fees accepted by the Government for the purposes of the medical benefits scheme to apply for the period 1st July 1971 to 30th June 1973. These include: 
The level of fees actually charged in New South Wales as at 1st July 1 969 for general practitioner surgery consultations and home visits; 
movements in relevant national economic indices between 1st July 1969 and 30th June 1971; and 
any other developments between 1st July 1969 and 30th June 1971 which affected the incomes of doctors or the costs of conducting medical practice. 
The arbitration process will, for the present, be confined to determining fair and reasonable fees for general practitioner surgery consultations and home visits in New South Wales to apply until 30th June 1973. It is in these general practitioner services in New South Wales that the common fee system has not given patients the full measure of protection desired by the Government. In general, the observance of common fees in New South Wales for most services other than general practitioner surgery consultations and home visits has been at a satisfactory level. The Government will give consideration to implications which could flow from its decision to put to arbitration one area of medical fees in one State. For instance, the Government, in the light of the arbitrator's finding, will be prepared to consult with the Australian Medical Association regarding matters such as the introduction into  the medical benefits schedule of new items for after hours and weekend consultations. The formal terms of reference and final details of the procedures to be followed by the arbitrator will be settled after I have further consulted with  Mr Justice  Kerr. 1 should like to inform honourable senators of the circumstances in which  Mr Justice  Kerr was able to accept the appointment as arbitrator. On 1st March this year, he advised the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn)  that, with the concurrence of the Committee of Inquiry on Pay for the Armed Services, he had decided to return to judicial duties on a part time basis.  Mr Justice  Kerr came to this decision on the ground that there is no need to continue his full-time involvement with the Committee's activities at this stage of its advanced deliberations. Whilst some important and complex issues have yet to be resolved by the. Committee, there is a substantial amount of detailed preparatory and analytical work to be carried out by the Services and the interested departments and by the Committee's secretariat before full consideration can be given to these issues by the Committee. 
The Government today asked  Mr Justice  Kerr to postpone his return to judicial duties until after the end of April. In accepting the appointment of arbitrator in relation to medical fees,  Mr Justice  Kerr made clear to me that, in view of the timetable for the medical fees arbitration, the finalisation of his deliberations in the Committee of Inquiry on Pay for the Armed Services would not be delayed. 
I have had a conference today with the Federal  President  of the Australian Medical Association,  Dr R.  H. MacDonald, and the Secretary-General,  Dr E.  Thomson, and explained the Government's decision to them. They will be reporting to their Federal Council during next weekend and I have accepted an invitation to be present on the second day of their meeting. The Government, of course, will carefully consider any views that the Australian Medical Association may put forward as a result of its Federal Council's deliberations in relation to the decision taken by the Government. I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard a documented statement setting out the background of this matter. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows): 
I ask for leave to make a statement on behalf of the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden). 
I seek leave to speak on the same matter. 
For the information of honourable senators, I present a report by the Superannuation Board together with the report presented to the Board by the actuary appointed to conduct the ninth quinquennial investigation of the superannuation Fund as at 30 June 1967. 
(12.26)- 
I move: 
That the Bill  be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend section 50 of the Public Service Act 1922-1968. This section deals with the transfer and promotion of officers within the Commonwealth Public Service, and the system under which an appeal against the selection of an officer for promotion may be made by any other officer who may consider himself more entitled to promotion than the officer selected. The section establishes committees, called Promotions Appeal Committees, which are required to make full inquiries into the claims of any appellant and the officer who has been promoted. These Committees consist of an independent  chairman,  an officer nominated by the Permanent Head of the department in which the promotion was made and an officer nominated by the appropriate staff association. 
At the present, where a provisional promotee and an appellant perform their duties in different States, the Act requires the Promotions Appeal Committees in the relevant States to hear the appeals and make reports to the Public Service Board. The Board then determines the appeal. The question of interstate appeals has been considered in recent times by the Joint Council, an employer-employee body constituted under the Public Service Act to advise the Public Service Board on conditions of service. The Joint Council recommended that a 'review' promotions appeal committee be set up to consider the reports of State Promotions Appeal Committees and, within prescribed limits, to determine the appeals. 
The Government has accepted the desirability of amending the Act to meet this proposal. The Bill therefore provides for the establishment of Central Promotions Appeal Committees. It requires that reports of State Committees in cases where all the parties to the appeal do not perform their duties in the one State, be referred to a Central Committee for examination and for any further inquiries it considers necessary. The Central Promotions Appeal Committees will have the same powers of determination as State Committees. In the drafing of the Bill the opportunity has been taken to revise various detailed provisions relating to the present promotions appeal system, particularly in relation to cases where there are 2 or more appellants. If honourable senators so desire, these amendments can be explained in more detail during the Committee stage of the Bill. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator O'Byrne)  adjourned. 
(12.29)- I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to enable the Commonwealth to meet its obligation under a guarantee of repayment of certain borrowings by the Australian Wheat Board from the Reserve Bank of Australia, in respect of wheat from the 1970-71 pool. Similar loans were made last year and the year before in respect of the 1969-70 and 1968-69 pools. To assist in the marketing of 1970-71 pool wheat, arrangements were made for the Board to borrow up to $364m from the Rural Credits Department of the Reserve Bank. The date for final repayment is 31st March 1972, approximately 12 months after the drawings were made, in order to comply with section 57 of the Reserve Bank Act which requires that loans of this type shall not be made for more than one year. Receipts by the Board from sales of wheat will be insufficient to enable it to repay the borrowings in full by the due date. This will mean that the Commonwealth will be liable under its guarantee for an amount currently expected to be in the vicinity of $95m, recoupment of which is estimated to take approximately 11 months. lt is proposed that the Commonwealth lend to the Board sufficient funds to enable it to discharge its debt to the bank. It is also proposed that the Board be required to use for repayment of the loan all net proceeds from export sales of wheat of the 1970-71 pool- after the date of the loan -  as  well as the Commonwealth's stabilisation payment. The Bill provides that the loan to the Board be at an interest rate of  5i  per cent per annum on the daily balances outstanding, with the actual timing of capital repayments and interest to be specified by the Treasurer. The interest rate is the same as that charged on last year's loan. The Bill authorises the Commonwealth to borrow up to $150m to make the loan to the Board. This exceeds the Board's current estimate of the amount required under the guarantee but, as such estimates are subject to substantial variation, the amount specified in the Bill provides a margin in case the estimate proves too low. The Australian Loan Council has agreed to a special borrowing programme for this purpose for the Commonwealth in 1971-72. The terms of the borrowing will be subject to Loan Council appproval. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator O'Byrne)  adjourned. 
 Senator Drake-Brockman,  the Minister for Air, is temporarily indisposed and will not be present during the sittings of the Senate this week.  Mr President,  I suggest that honourable senators direct questions which relate to  Senator Drake-Brockman's  own portfolio of Air and to the portfolios of the other Services to  Senator Wright.  Questions in relation to the portfolio of Repatriation should be directed to  Senator Greenwood,  in relation to the portfolio of Supply to myself and in relation to the portfolio of Primary Industry to  Senator Cotton.  Honourable senators should not hesitate to ask questions on those portfolios. Whilst my ministerial colleagues and I may not be able to answer every question instantaneously we will certainly do our very best to ensure that answers are supplied to all questions. I hope honourable senators will continue to ask questions which would normally come within  Senator DrakeBrockman's  responsibility. 
I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard a statement which relates to a question asked by  Senator Byrne  about the drug impramme and drug evaluation procedures generally. 
 Mr President,  I regret to inform the Senate of the passing on 9th March 1972 of the former senator Roy Kendall. As a senator for Queensland, Roy Kendall gave distinguished service to the Senate for 16 years from 1949 to 1965. He was elected to the Senate at the general elections of 1949 and 1951, the Senate election in 1953 and the general election in 1958. He was a respected figure in this place. He was a member of the Library Committee from 2nd March 1950, of the Serrate Standing Orders Committee from 11th November 1953, of the Senate Select Committee on Payments to Maritime Unions in 1958, and of the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory from 14th August 1962. 
Roy Kendall had a varied and interesting background. He was born in London in 1899 and educated at HMS 'Worcester', the merchant navy training establishment for officers. During the First World War he served in the Royal Navy Transport Service from 1.914 to 1918 and was mobilised as a lieutenant commander in the Royal Navy in 1939 at the outbreak of World War II. He gained rapid promotion, being appointed to the rank of captain in 1942, and was attached to General MacArthur's headquarters as Admiralty representative in charge of intelligence services in the Southwest Pacific Area. 
When he settled in Queensland at the end of the war he quickly became prominent in community affairs and was well known, amongst other things, as Sea Scouts Commissioner for Queensland and New Guinea.  Sir, those  who sat with him here in this place and knew him, liked him and regarded him as a friend, and we mourn his passing. On behalf of all honourable senators I express condolence to the widow, family and relatives of the late Roy Kendall. 
by leave - I wish to inform the Senate - this statement was made in the other place by the Prime Minister - that  Mr Garland,  in addition to his duties as Minister for Supply, will assist the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden).  I also wish to inform the Senate that the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon)  is to leave Australia tonight to have discussions and make inspections in the urban transport field in South Africa, the United Kingdom, the United States of America and Europe, and to attend the launching of the Australian National Line container ship 'Australian Explorer' in Germany. He is expected to return to Australia on 12 April. During his absence the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt)  will act as Minister for Shipping and Transport. 

I ask for leave to make a statement in relation to the debate that occurred on the Death Penalty Abolition Bill on Thursday, 9th March. 
(8.5) - I have 2 messages from the House of Representatives and I suggest that they should now be considered. No doubt the debate on them will be adjourned and then we may resume the consideration of the report of the Standing Orders Committee.. 
(10.16) - I move: 
That item 4 be referred back to the Standing Orders Committee. 
The Standing Orders Committee will consider item 4 again. That Committee will report to the Committee of the Whole. I think it is better to adopt that procedure than for the Committee of the Whole to deal with item 4 now. 
(4.27) - I move: 
That order of the day, notice of motion No. 1, be made an order of the day for the next day of sitting.  1 will give my reasons for proposing the motion,  Senator Cavanagh  can respond and we can then decide what we shall do. The reason why I do not want to deal with  Senator Cavanagh's  motion today is that it seeks to refer to the Standing Committee on Social Environment certain petitions that have been presented to the Senate. Many of these petitions have been presented in the last few days.  Senator Cavanagh  has presented some yesterday and six or seven were presented today. I have been informed by Government senators that they wish to present petitions. In fact,I have in my own office a petition on the same matter and I am having it processed for the purpose of being presented by one of my own members. Government senators and I take the view that having regard to the nature of things it would not be appropriate today for  Senator Cavanagh,  if he intends to seek to go into the substance of this matter - and no doubt this would be a matter for the Chair to determine-- to move this motion. But if  Senator Cavanagh  merely wants to refer this matter to the Committee I could understand and perhaps live with that. But if he intends to argue the substance I shall ask that it be stood over today. In any event, my own senators want to present petitions. Indeed, they would need to have regard to the matter of substance that the honourable senator would want to put in debating this matter. This is the normal procedure. On the other hand, if  Senator Cavanagh  merely wants to refer this matter to the Committee I think we could carry the motion on the voices. 
(4.42)  -  I thank the Senate for the passage of this legislation. The remarks of  Senator Willesee  and  Senator Douglas  McClelland make it obvious that the Opposition supports this legislation.  Senator Douglas  McClelland has referred to the question of people acting in positions. I respond to his remarks because 1 have been informed that if an acting appointment to a position extends beyond one month that appointment is appealable after that period. That is really the point with which  Senator Douglas  McClelland was seeking to deal. My understanding of the position is that if an acting appointment extends beyond a month the right of appeal exists. 

It is apparent from what  Senator Douglas  McClelland has said that some members of the Commonwealth Public Service are not aware of their rights. The various professional officers associations in the Commonwealth Public Service should pick up from this debate the fact that the right of appeal exists after an acting position has been held for one month. Knowing their activities, 1 am sure they will note this point. This is the information with which I have been provided by the parliamentary advisers. I thank the Senate for the passage of the second reading of this Bill. 
Bill read a second time, and reported from Committee without amendment or debate; report adopted. 
(5.13) - in reply - This is really a machinery Bill for which there is formal approval from all sides of the Senate. With the indulgence of the Chair, honourable senators have made some references which perhaps do not have a direct relationship to the Bill.  Senator Young,  who sits behind me, dealt with the argument, if it was an argument - 1 do not think it was intended to be an argument; it was just a general observation - that we in Australia have been able, through the Australian Wheat Board, to spread the sales of our wheat to many countries. This is a good situation in which to be, whether one is talking about wheat or any other commodity. 
If a person is in business and has only one or two clients he is in a much more critical position than if he has many clients. I think that is axiomatic. In the field we are discussing - in fact, in any business or industry - the order book is the critical thing. A business is always in a happy situation if its order book is spread over a very wide range. But that does not mean that, when other circumstances arise, when one can find another client or when things may not be going too well on the face value of sales, one does not have regard to big clients, too. It is nice to have big clients as well as little clients. I feel that the political implications which have been transposed into the debate are ones which could have been debated at a different level. I think  Senator Young  was able to demonstrate that there has been a significant and a dramatic fall in the carryover of our wheat surplus since 1970. As  Senator McManus  said, the wheat industry is expressing the point of view that quotas should be abolished. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
(5.19) - The Committee of the Whole has been dealing with the report of the Standing Orders Committee for a considerable time. The report, by its nature, is an internal matter. It deals with our proceedings and our management. The report was presented in August 1971. In the light of what has happened since 1971, the volume of work that has been done by the Senate and by the Committee of the Whole since 1971, one needs to pause a little to recollect the previous position. As I recall it, the Committee put aside the items dealing with areas of disputation to enable it to continue to deal with those standing orders which we might agree should be varied. As the deliberation was in a completely nonparty climate, the Committee felt that if it could agree to a variation of certain Standing Orders it could well be that those variations could be incorporated into the Standing Orders and the Senate would have the benefit of the use of the new 
Standing Orders pending the resolution of the other matters. I think  Senator Murphy  will recall that that is what the Committee did. I think it was having difficulty with standing order 64. 
by leave - I would like to comment on and not oppose what was suggested. I simply would like to say in fairness to  Senator Cavanagh  and  Senator Murphy  that I have not rejected necessarily what they are proposing as an alternative. I felt that we do not have the appropriate time to give to this matter. Therefore I suggest that the question be put on  Senator Cavanagh's  notice of motion, which is to refer petitions to the Standing Committee on Social Environment. I would not oppose this course of action. 
8.6) - I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
On 9th December 1971, the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  announced additional measures of special assistance to government and independent schools. As far as independent schools were concerned, the Commonwealth had decided to increase the rates of per capita grants from the commencement of the 1972 school year, from $35 to $50 per annum for each pupil receiving primary education, and from $50 to $68 per annum for each pupil receiving secondary education. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend the principal Act - States Grants (Independent Schools) Act 1969 - to implement the Government's undertaking to independent schools. The proposed amendment restricts the application of the rates specified in the principal Act to the 1970 and 1971 school years, and makes provision for the payment of the new rates from January 1972. 
The independent schools, as the Prime Minister pointed out in his statement to the House of Representatives on 9th December, have been facing increasing difficulties in their efforts to remain viable. Not only have teachers' salaries increased generally thoughout Australia in recent years, but there have been a number of awards requiring independent schools to increase their teachers' salaries to full parity with the operative rates in government schools over a short period. This latter development has had the effect of placing upon independent schools a proportionately greater burden of cost increases than that placed upon government schools. There is a limit to the extent to which independent schools can charge higher fees, and for boarding schools in particular there are further problems resulting from the current situation of rural industries. 
Our policy objective for the independent schools is that, relying on their own efforts and with assistance from governments, they should be able to continue to provide an adequate standard of education for that proportion of the school population which has in the past attended independent schools. The Government sees the maintenance of a viable alternative system of schools, with assurances of continuing financial support, as essential to the health and vigour of Australian education generally. 
Where capital funds are made available to independent schools, the Commonwealth has established objective standards against which the entitlement of an individual school can be judged. This is clearly necessary where capital funds are involved. 
When the question of recurrent expenditure in independent schools is considered, a different set of circumstances applies. The method which the Government has chosen for the provision of recurrent aid to independent schools has been, and remains, the per capita grant, without any kind of means test. This method of assistance is the preferred policy of the National Council for Independent Schools, the Federal Catholic Schools Committee, and the Australian Parents Council; it is also the policy of most of our State governments. 
Those who argue for a means test to be applied to assistance with recurrent expenditure in independent schools have not been able to establish principles or critieria which can clearly be applied with equity and justice to the range of independent schools and to their students and parents. Various possible methods have been suggested, such as basing payments on pupil/teacher ratios, on the level of fees charged, or on academic standards at particular schools; but these methods would be difficult to put into practice objectively, and without running the risk of encouraging schools to maintain standards at , a lower level than would otherwise be the case to attract grants. 
The present measure is intended to assist the independent schools with their immediate problems arising from increasing running costs. The Government recognises the need for further attention to be given to measures which the Commonwealth and the States might take to assist the indepen-dent schools on a longer term basis. They need assurances of continuity of support if they are to maintain their existing services and to expand these as the school-going population grows. 
The Government will continue to keep these questions under close review, as part of its policy of improving education in all schools. It will also maintain close liaison with the States on progress in the construction of government schools with the $20m in capital grants to be made available in the period up to 30th June 1973 and on future needs in this area. At these increased rates, the total Commonwealth payments of per capita grants to independent schools in each State, for the 1972 school year, will be: 
Separate legislation has been introduced by my colleague the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  to deal with the additional capital grants for government schools announced by the Prime Minister in December last. I comment this Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Wheeldon)  adjourned. 
(8.11)  -  I move: 
That the Bill be  now  read  a second  time. 
The main purpose of this Bill is to authorise the payments of grants totalling $6.66m to the States in 1971-72 for the purpose of financing capital expenditure on government primary and secondary schools. The Bill also authorises the borrowing of funds to finance these grants and the payment of grants for the same purpose in the first 6 months of 1972-73. On 9th December 1971 the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  announced in the House of Representatives that increases would be made in the rate of Commonwealth assistance to independent schools, and that grants totalling $20m would be paid to the States in the period up to 30th June 1973 for the purpose of financing capital expenditure on government primary and secondary schools. A Bill to authorise the increased payments to independent schools has been introduced into the Senate by me. 
The Prime Minister explained in his statement that the Government had decided to make the grants to the States for capital expenditure on government schools in recognition of the needs expressed by the States for additional expenditure in this area. As he also explained, it is proposed that the grants be paid as additions to the interest-free capital grants which the Commonwealth is now making to the States annually as part of their works and housing programmes. The capital grants forming part of the 1971-72 works and housing programmes approved at the June 1971 meeting of the Loan Council were authorised in the States Grants (Capital Assistance) Act 1971 passed in the last sittings. The main purpose of this Bill is to amend that Act so as to authorise that part of the additional grants of $20m for expenditure on government schools which is to be paid this year, namely $6.66m, or one-third of the total amount of $20m. 
I turn now to discuss some of the specific provisions of the Bill. In clause 3 which, in conjunction with the third column in the table which forms the schedule to the Bill, authorises the payments of grants totalling S6.66m to the States in 1971- 72, the grant to each State is stated to be for the purpose of financial assistance in connection with expenditure of a capital nature on primary schools and secondary schools conducted by that State'. The intention of this statement is to identify these particular grants as being separate from the general purpose capital assistance grants made available to the States under the principal Act. While the Commonwealth has not thought to attach any legally binding conditions to the present grants, the Prime Minister has made it clear in his statement to the House and in letters to the Premiers, that the Commonwealth expects that the States will continue with at least their planned levels of capital expenditure in primary and secondary schools, and that these grants will therefore result in additions to the levels of expenditure in this area. The Prime Minister also stated that the Commonwealth would prefer the grants to be used for purposes other than science laboratories and libraries in secondary schools since the Commonwealth is providing special direct assistance for those purposes. The States have accepted the grants on these terms and are developing their capital works programmes for schools accordingly. 
Clause 4 of the Bill increases, by the amount of $6.66m, the amount which the Treasurer may borrow for the purpose of financing the capital grants. It is the Government's intention to apply the proceeds of any loan moneys that may be available for the purpose of this expenditure. To the extent that these grants cannot be financed from borrowings, section 6 of the existing Act provides for payment to be made from Consolidated Revenue Fund. Section 7 of the principal Act, in conjunction with the Schedule, authorises the Treasurer to make advances in the first 6 months of 1972-73 up to a maximum of half the grants payable to each State in the current financial year. The purpose of that provision is to enable advances to be made to the States in 1972-73 pending the passage of comparable legislation in that year. The Commonwealth's undertaking to pay portion of the States' works and housing programmes to them as grants has continuing effect, and this section ensures that advances can be made to the States on a regular basis from the beginning of 1972-73. 
Clause 5 of the present Bill gives the Treasurer similar authority in respect of the additional grants for expenditure on government schools. Under this clause, the Treasurer may authorise grants for this purpose in the first 6 months of 1972;73 up to maximum for each State equal to the grants payable in 1971-72, that is, a total amount for all states of $6. 66m. This is because the grants payable this year are approximately half those which will be payable next year, that is, $1 3.34m. The payment of the full amount of $13. 34m for next year will be authorised under a Bill to be introduced in the Budget sittings to authorise the capital grants for 1972-73 following the approval of borrowing programmes for that year at the June 1972 meeting of the Loan Council. 
I should explain at this juncture that the States will continue to benefit from these grants in years subsequent to 1972-73 because they will be amalgamated into the basic capital grants for the purpose of determining the proportion of the, works and housing programme that is paid to the States as grants rather than loans, thus reducing the States' debt charges correspondingly. At the Premiers' Conference and Loan Council meeting on 14th February the works and housing programme for 1971-72 was increased by $32m, including an increase in the capital grants of $9. 3m. These additional grants will be authorised in a further Bill to be introduced shortly. The States are free to disburse these additional programmes as they decide themselves, although some of them have already announced that they will allocate part of the increase to expenditure on government schools. The Government believes that the grants authorised by this Bill represent a significant contribution by the Commonwealth in the field of education. They have been welcomed as such by the States. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Wheeldon)  adjourned. 
(5.10) - Earlier today I moved that, unless otherwise ordered, the Senate would adjourn till Tuesday, 11th April 1972 at 3 p.m. I see no reason to alter that motion. I do not propose to alter it. I would like the Senate to decide whether we should continue sitting. I am proposing to move a motion which would bring on General Business for discussion. We would discuss General Business Order of the Day No. 1. That would take us to 5.45 p.m. If the Senate wishes, we could continue the debate tonight. I am in the hands and at the will of the Senate. I would be perfectly happy to move now that the Senate adjourn. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI think the Senate should make up its mind. May I explain? If we are not to sit tonight, we should rise now. If we in fact do not sit tonight some people can get away. But if they stay until 5.45 p.m., they will not get away at all. 
(5.7)  -  Mr President,  I am having a really difficult day. I had prepared a speech on the amendment that I believed would be moved. I discover now that the amendment that has been moved is different from that proposed. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe point that I make is that just as I contended that the amendment proposed to the earlier Bill was invalid I believe that this amendment should be ruled out of order. The States Grants (Capital Assistance) Bill relates to government primary and secondary schools. The amendment moved proposes that these capital grants should be extended to non-government schools. It is in complete conflict with the Bill. Again, a difference of opinion arises. You may rule that it is in order without seeking much advice as to the opinion of the Senate, but I submit  Mr President  that the amendment is out of order. It would be wonderful to go home this week and to say that I had had one victory, however occasional it may be, in relation to the Standing Orders. I suggest this is an inappropriate amendment to move to the Bill. The Government cannot support it, no matter how you rule,  Mr President.  We cannot be seen to be supporting it in the form in which it is presented. 
I ask for leave to make a statement before moving a motion. 
 Senator Murphy  asked me a question several days ago about the anticipated programme of the Senate. I indicated that it was anticipated that if we did not receive any other messages to deal with by the time we concluded this afternoon, we would be able to deal with general business tonight and that I would then move that we rise until 11th April. The situation is that we have 2 Bills on the notice paper which I would want us to deal with today. 1 anticipate that we would be able to dispose of them this afternoon. If that were so, I would move to adjourn the Senate until 11th April, unless otherwise ordered. If, in fact, we. cannot dispose of these 2 Bills I will move another motion for the purpose of re-assembling next Tuesday. I want to dispose of the Bills today. I think most honourable senators feel that we would be able to dispose of them this afternoon or tonight. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThey are the States Grants (Independent Schools) Bill 1972 and the States Grants (Capital Assistance Bill) 1972. They are complementary Bills. 
They are 2 Bills that we received yesterday. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONYes. That will bring us to the stage of dealing with general business tonight. If it is proposed to deal with general business, we will debate the proposed appointment of a joint select committee to deal with Commonwealth and State revenue. That is an adjourned debate and I understand that  Senator Durack  would resume the debate. Perhaps that is a matter that could be left for discussion between the leaders of the parties this afternoon. 

With the concurrence of honourable senators, I would now like to deal with some of the orders of the day. I intend to put the question on a series of them if honourable senators have no objection to that course being followed. If an honourable senator does not wish this to be done, he would indicate and I would withdraw my motion. I am merely trying to remove a series of notices of motion which have been on the notice paper for a long time. I can dispose of them simply by putting the question in each case. If there is an objection, the honourable senator concerned should say so and I will withdraw the motion. 
(3.55) - in reply - This debate is a cognate debate for 2 Bills, the States Grants (Independent Schools) Bill and the States Grants (Capital Assistance) Bill. The situation is that an amendment has been moved to the States Grants (Independent Schools) Bill by  Senator Wheeldon  so a vote will be taken separately on the 2 Bills at the second reading stage. On the other hand  Senator McManus  has foreshadowed amendments to the 2 Bills. I suggest that I explain the procedure to the Senate. First of ail we will dispose of the amendment moved by  Senator Wheeldon.  Then  Senator McManus  will have an opportunity formally to present his amendment to the first Bill - that is the States Grants (Independent Schools) Bill. We will dispose ot that amendment and I expect that that will take the Bill to the Committee stage. Then a vote will be taken on the second Bill to which  Senator McManus  has also foreshadowed an amendment. I indicate at this time that the Government will not be in a position to support those amendments. First of all the Government will resist - if I may make a distinction - with everything at its command the amendment proposed by the Australian Labor Party. On a different basis, the Government will not support the amendments proposed by  Senator McManus.  But if necessary I shall come to that matter by way of explanation. 
The most important thing which has to be understood in relation to this Bill  -  I am speaking now about the amendment proposed by the Labor Party - is that there has been one  speaker  for the Opposition. In fairness I point out that  Senator O'Byrne  contemplated coming into the debate. But I feel I am under an obligation to say that apart from that no attempt has been made to speak by any honourable senator on the Opposition side. Indeed, most of them have not been here. It is true and it is significant that the arguments which have been put by  Senator Carrick, Senator McManus  and  Senator Davidson  have been strong and forceful. I believe that they completely destroyed the concept of the conditions which have been put in paragraph 1, 2 and 3 of the Labor Party's amendment. They have completely demolished in a magnificent way the most significant points in this proposed amendment which is an amendment to defeat the Bill. That is the point honourable senators have to remember. The attitude of the official Labor Party in relation to assistance to independent schools is hammered on to the wall for all time. Let there be no doubt about that. This amendment states: 
Leave out all words after "That* . . . 
The rest of the amendment is a nice appendage or a nice dressing up. If the amendment to leave out all words after that' is carried we do not go any further with the Bill because the Bill is defeated. The Labor Party is saying in its own documented words - not words as we interpret them - that it is opposed to giving assistance in the form of State grants to independent schools in the terms of the Bill. That is a basic, fundamental policy decision which the Labor Party has made. It has skirmished around it in the past. In the past they have used semantics. When the Bill was introduced in another place the Labor Party did not do that. But it has hammered itself to the wall. I gather that the Labor Party has made a decision now that it is opposed to independent school aid. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONBy defeating the Bill. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe Bill gives additional assistance. It seems to me that that is the issue with Which we are dealing. I do not think I need go very much further. As I say, the appendage in the amendment about the Australian Schools Commission and its implications have been magnificently pointed out by  Senator Carrick, Senator McManus  and  Senator Davidson.  That part of the amendment has a clear message of nationalisation of education in Australia. One of the extraordinary things is that we have an amendment which points out that the Labor Party is not going to support independent schools but then in the trunk of the amendment there is a message about what the Labor Party is going to put up in place thereof. I believe we should simply come to the vote. The Government will not accept the amendment. The Government is very proud of what it is doing in the Bill. It is doing what it believes is right and proper in terms of justice and assistance to independent schools. I do not think there is any necessity for me to go beyond what I have said. We should now let the amendment with which we are confronted be put to the vote. 
 The situation is that we have had a debate during which Government senators have addressed themselves to the amendment with great vigour. 
 That rather suggests some arrangement between the Opposition parties, does it not? I wonder which side  Senator Byrne  is on. 
 Thank you,  Mr President.  I should like to finish what I was about to say, if I may. The situation is that I have assaulted the amendment in fairly categorical language. I would be a little distressed if  Senator Murphy's  altered amendment were to destroy my argument which was so impressive. 
I am really embarrassed about the matter but there is a certain degree of spirit in these situations. 
I will be as co-operative as I can. 
I suggest that a vote be taken on the amendment. 
Question put: 
Thatthe words proposed to be left out  (Senator Wheeldon's amendment)  be left out. 
(5.46) -I rise only to close the debate. I suggest that this has been a long week. The strain of the work that we have done and have attempted to do is reflected in the adjournment debate tonight. I do not think this debate has done any credit to the Senate. I suggest that accusations and counter-accusations do not add to our prestige as a Senate. I hope that when we next meet we will all be refreshed so that we will not have a repetition of what we have had today. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I wish to inform the Senate that the PostmasterGeneral,  Sir Alan  Hulme, is ill and will be unable to attend the Parliament for several weeks. During the Minister's absence the Minister for Civil Aviation,  Senator Cotton,  will be Acting PostmasterGeneral. 
I present the following paper: 
Australian Defence Review 
This paper has been distributed for the information of honourable senators. Additional copies are available in the Senate Records Office. 
With your leave,  Mr President,I  wish to make it clear that we have 3 messages. One relates to the Public Service Arbitration Bill which I will be introducing and in relation to which the debate will be adjourned to the next day of sitting. Then the Honey Industry Bill and the Commonwealth Teaching Service Bill will be introduced in that order. In both cases the debate will be adjourned to a later hour this day, and by arrangement it. is proposed that the Honey Industry Bill and the Commonwealth Teaching Service Bill will be dealt with at a later hour this day. 
by leave - The statement I am about to make was made on 28th March 1.972 in another place by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn).  As the statement is couched in the first person singular, honourable senators will understand that it relates to the Minister for Defence and not to me. I wish to lay before honourable members the Government's strategic outlook and the programme by which successive steps in a defence programme for the 1970s and 1980s will be taken. The Government's advisers have, for several months, been engaged in a comprehensive re-examination of the nation's strategic position. They have examined the more predictable situations in the 1970s and the contingencies for the longer term future to which we must equally address ourselves in our defence planning. The Government has already had the benefit of expert advice on some of these matters and acted upon it; advice on other matters has yet to be presented. I here refer particularly to the preparation for the Government of a recommended programme comprehending future equipment purchases during the next 5 years and the other provisions which are part of our total defence effort. I wish to say more about the programme for policy decisions on these matters later. 
I have authorised the issue of an Aus tralian defence review which has been prepared by the Department of Defence in consultation with the Services and other departments. It was not prepared as a policy document. Rather it contains information and analysis which will be of interest to honourable members and which, I believe, will contribute to discussion and debate upon the policies which Australia should follow. 1 am therefore making the paper available to honourable members. 
In deciding the extent to which it would be wise for the Government to announce decisions which in some cases would affect the level of fighting efficiency and technological efficiency of our Services as far ahead as 20 years, 1 have been mindful of the emphasis which our advisers place, as will be seen in the defence review, upon the importance of timing of decisions. The implications of making decisions too late need not be stressed, but the review warns against making premature commitments which, for example, could crowd out of consideration higher priority needs which would only come up for decision at a later date, or which could require us to accept equipment with deficient standards of technology. An example of the latter is methods of locating submarines. 
The first requirement is to make a reasoned definition of the Australian interests needing to be pursued by our defence policy, and of the strategic situations against which we should build our defence capabilities. It is clear that the objective must be a policy for the 1970s and 1980s. It is clear that great changes are occurring in Australia's external environment which justify a careful and progressive re-evaluation of the situation. It is also clear, I suggest, that we should not found our defence policy, or our willingness to engage ourselves to assist others, on a simple faith in the success of diplomatic efforts of mighty powers or on the benign intentions of rivals for ideological supremacy among communist powers. 
It is not enough for Australia's force structure to be built to meet only needs or threats that are explicitly definable. We owe it to the community, and to the future parliaments and governments representing them, to have in our 3 armed Services and in our industrial and scientific support an adequate readiness against contingent threats looking, in some types of equipment and works expenditure, as far ahead as the late 1980s. So far ahead - almost 20 years at the limit - it is not given to man to make predictions which can be stated as accurate; nor is it possible to suggest more than orders of probability or of intensity of threats against Australian interests. 
If it should be said that we should not make speculations of this kind far beyond the range of reasonable intelligence assessments, the answer is that decisions on long life equipment, and even longer life infrastructure of bases and docks and airfields, always carry an implicit estimate, far into the future, of the need for this equipment. Destroyers delivered in 1980 will still be in service in 2000, and the weapons fit and general capability embodied in the design must be selected accordingly. Cockburn Sound will be supporting our naval forces well into the twenty-first century and probably indefinitely, lt is necessary that the assessment of contingent requirements be thorough for many reasons. Naval and air systems, in particular, are expensive and there is no going back on decisions once made. 
The statement that I make tonight is the first of several. It addresses itself primarily to the strategic issues which underlie our defence policies. The Chiefs-of-Staff and the Department of Defence are together analysing the programme which will be the physical expression of those defence policies. They will in mid-year put before the Government a recommended programme for 5 years of total defence activity and expenditure. Following consideration and decision by the Government, further announcements will be made of each concrete decision as and when required to be made. 
The purpose of tonight's statement then is to define the strategic environment which, in the view of the Government, is most likely to exist during this decade and could potentially exist in the 1980s; to describe how in general we believe Australian defence capabilities should be shaped in accordance with the responsibilities of an independent country; to make clear the Government's policy of strengthening and not withdrawing from our international defence associations; to describe the burdens and the gains and the clear balance of national advantage which we believe flow from these associations. It aims as well to remind the House of some of the perils which will arise if any Australian Government should flout our commitments or jeopardise confidence in our word or our endurance . or seek refuge from contemporary burdens by reducing the country's defence capabilities and retreating from a military role in helping to maintain the security of the external environment in- which Australia is destined for all time to live. 
In our approach we intend to avoid being imprisoned in concepts that are dominated by simple formulae. Formulae may fail to reflect adequately the potential range of security problems imposed on Australia in the years ahead and the various responses which future parliaments will want to be able to choose from. It is axiomatic that the defence of Australia calls for the best defence of Australian interests. This embraces far more than fighting in defence of Australia's territory and dependencies for by then we would be in extremis. 
Destiny places us in part of the world where a very large proportion of mankind is subjected to deep-seated cause of instability, social conflict, slow economic growth, and recurring pressures directed from outside to capture power for ideological or nationalist reasons. At the same time global military and economic power is being redistributed among the great military powers. The old certainties are not as they were in the 1950s and the 1960s. This is a fact of cardinal importance for Australian defence. It is essential to try to foresee the way in which the nations who are great in terms of military and economic power will exercise that power in the area of Australia's strategic concern - an area which comprehends our northern neighbourhood and the sea and air spaces of the maritime environment of Australia. 
The United States of America maintains its global balance with the Soviet Union and it has a marked superiority in strategic nuclear strength vis-a-vis China. As the Department of Defence review points out, its strength in the Pacific Ocean is vast but American resources are not unlimited and the United States Administration has set conditions for its assumption of further responsibilities The United States, the Soviet Union, China and Japan are exploring each other's attitudes and examining the effect of initiatives taken. One may well hope that the development of the dialogue will open the way to understanding and trust which take us further away from the flash point of conflct over issues vital to great powers leading possibly to the utter disaster of global war. But we must also, in calculating how to defend Australia's interests, allow for possible developments at some time in the future in which there may be acceptance of situations which, in effect, represent a change in the balance among these great powers and which are not all beneficial to the confidence of countries in South East Asia and the South West Pacific. 
While others have preached withdrawal, negativism and isolation, the Government by positive diplomacy and defence, cooperation has achieved a unique standing in Malaysia, Singapore and Indonesia. We might remember that when a British administration in 1968-69 intended to withdrawn completely from Malaysia and Singapore, Australia and New Zealand said they would take responsibility alone. In the event British policy was changed to allow retention of a permanent force in the area and the positive attitude of the Australian Government was rewarded. From these developments the Five Power defence arrangements embracing Australia, Malaysia, New Zealand, Singapore and the United Kingdom have grown. 
I have recently returned from South East Asia. Nothing conveyed to me during my discussions in Malaysia and Singapore could confirm any view other than a view of the continuing relevance and importance of the Five Power arrangements, and of the significance for those arrangements of the continued presence of Australian, New Zealand and British forces in the area. The physical presence of those forces is an integral part of the only Five Power defence arrangements that make sense in the present and in foreseeable circumstances - a fact which the present British Government immediately recognised upon coming to power, and a matter upon which there seems to be a measure of bipartisan agreement in New Zealand, our close neighbour. 
It is accordingly a matter of regret to the Australian Government that, with the ink barely dried on the agreements pertaining to the presence of the forces - international arrangements which are explicitly linked to the communique of the Five Powers issued in London last April - attempts have been made to sow in the world new doubts and uncertainties about Australia's intentions as a nation. This Government's judgment is that the withdrawal of the Australian force so soon after the arrangements and agreements had been settled would seriously undermine the Five Power arrangements. It would also make it difficult, if not impossible - not only for political, but also for important practical reasons - for Britain and New Zealand alone to maintain their forces in the region. This Government does not believe in the destruction of the. Five Power arrangements. Bilaterally, the Government is also conducting practical defence co-operation with Indonesia. This does not require, nor is it the wish of cither Government to have, any formal defence arrangement. There is a recognition that two friendly neighbouring countries sharing common interests in regional security should, in those fields where it is within their capacities, pursue and cultivate practical co-operation with one another. 
In the present situation of uncertainty about the intentions of China and the Soviet Union, and the aggressive militancy of the North Vietnamese throughout IndoChina, and widespread insurgency in our northern neighbourhood, a positive Australian policy founded on an adequate defence effort and on defence arrangements or understandings with our neighbours may contribute to confidence and stability in the region in which we live. 
There is a duality in the requirements of a national Australian defence policy: On the one hand, we need defence equipment and manning giving Australian Services an increasing measure of self-reliance and ability to act alone in certain situations. On the other hand, we seek an intensification of our defence undemanding with the United States and with Our northern neighbours in the expectation that the United States will, as pledged to the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  since the Nixon Doctrine was promulgated, provide the foundation of Australian security against threats or actual attack going beyond Australian capacity to deal with alone. 
If we are clear headed, as the Government is, we will understand that the first objective - greater Australian self-reliance - will of itself contribute to the second objective - getting the support we need from greater allies in emergencies going beyond our capabilities. The worst way to protect this country is to saddle it with forces not for any good military reason, diplomatic reason, or economic reason - but to satisfy party ideologists. To lay stress on dangerous contingencies against which Australian defence efforts must steadily prepare over the longer term is not inconsistent with the hopes entertained by the  President  of the United States of progressively negotiating understandings which will reduce tensions among the  4  great powers: The Soviet Union, the People's Republic of China, the United States and Japan - and particularly among the  3  great military powers in this group. 
What seems evident from the diplomacy exercised by all these powers over recent months is that there is a new fluidity in which new relations may be formed, and if old security dangers recede some new ones will take their place. The first requirement is for Australian diplomacy to address itself to these matters, and it is not my function to speak of this. But it is, I believe, an essential ingredient of Australian diplomacy that Australia should be understood to be a country whose security interests are growing; whose population and wealth are growing; and whose determination to take some part in shaping the environment in which we live is more lively than ever now that the great western powers have served notice that their involvement in lesser situations is not to be taken for granted. 
I have not the slightest doubt that the United States commitments to Australia under the ANZUS Treaty are as strong and effective as ever and it is my belief that it is the responsible attitude of this Australian Government towards the economic growth and the military security of this region that have contributed to maintaining this undeviating attitude. 
But we are a sovereign country pursuing independent foreign policies and the best assurance of an independent policy is that future parliaments and governments should not be influenced in their policies or responses to situations by fear of our inability by military means to deter interference with us. It is, of course, no part of Australian defence policy to prepare for massive defence by ourselves - whether by conventional or nuclear means - against an onslaught by one of the great military powers. This would be quite beyond our capacity and we should look to, in particular, our American ally in the contingency - judged unlikely in the foreseeable future - of this situation arising. 
What can be achieved by a defence programme giving us the ability to project Australian armed strength beyond our continental shores is twofold: It will give future governments options to have some influence on events in our strategic environment so that we may contribute to the greater security of all countries in that area. It will give Australia the ability to deter direct interference with our interests except at a certain cost. 
The accompanying Defence Review which I am presenting suggests situations in relation to which, irrespective of present requirements for action, this Government believes that it must retain military capabilities adequate in quantity as well as in quality. 
In South East Asia the impact of subversion and insurgency has been restricted by massive sacrifices of men and material on the part of many countries - not least the states of Indo-China under attack from North Vietnam. But the elimination of both subversion and insurgency continues to demand, in at least 6 countries, very great efforts on the part of the governments concerned. 
Success will not be achieved quickly, nor will it be achieved by military means alone. But when men take up arms to destroy a government or to render ineffective the administration of wide areas of a country it is a practical fact that one of the means which the government concerned will employ to suppress this violence will be military. It is also a practical fact that where insurgent violence is evidently nourished and supported from beyond the frontiers of the affected country then the interests of all neighbouring countries are more or less affected by the resultant threat to security. 
The Australian Government would, of course, prefer that Australia not be involved in insurgent situations in South East Asia at all. It is necessary however that, if the national interest in so doing is clearly identified, Australia should have the physical capacity to become involved if an emergency should arise, externally supported, and beyond the capacity of the threatened country to deal with unaided. It is necessary that Australia should have the practical option to provide - for the armed forces of its neighbours, where they are subjected to such threats emanating from beyond their border - the kind of support which will enable those local forces to acquit themselves most effectively against their adversaries. 
The Government intends to maintain forces which keep these practical options open for the future. It rejects ideological arguments that we should decide in principle today to disqualify ourselves from helping our friends at some future date. It rejects so called pragmatic arguments which would suggest that there is nothing in the military field which Australia could do to help its neighbours against insurgency. Within the limits determined by particular situations as they arise, it will retain the physical capability to do what is required. It believes that only if it preserves these practical options and thus preserves too the evident political option to support its neighbours will its military capabilities support its diplomatic and economic efforts in its environment. 
I turn now to the Indian Ocean. The Defence Review refers, to the Soviet naval presence in the Indian Ocean and points to the present and potential strategic importance of this new manifestation of power. Let me make one thing clear. The Government does not regard the Soviet presence in the Indian Ocean as, in present circumstances, a direct military threat to Australia. It does regard it as a weapon in a Soviet diplomatic offensive in the littoral states, including those states from which vital petroleum supplies are obtained. It does not consider that this increase in Soviet influence would tend to an improvement of Australian security in time of war or to the pursuit of more independent foreign policies by Indian Ocean states in times of tension. History has demonstrated clearly that the USSR is not averse to exploiting any opportunities for political and economic leverage. 
Soviet naval power in the Indian Ocean poses the possible need for other nations to deploy forces to the area. It facilitates the gathering of intelligence covering Australia or our allies. Our response has been to encourage a Western re-action to this presence adequate to demonstrate to the countries of the Indian Ocean that that ocean does not and will not become a Russian preserve and that Western interests there remain positive and will be secured. To the allied responses the Australian Government has contributed positively by offering the co-operation of our maritime forces in surveillance and by improving and making available to our allies military facilities that will assist them. Our action in this regard has been warmly welcomed by our allies as a positive contribution to global security. It will be pursued vigorously - and not least in the progressive development of Cockburn Sound for the support of our allies and as a major facility for the improvement of Australia's own naval capabilities. 
China's military power is of growing rather than lessening importance in Australian security. The Chinese nuclear armoury is already substantial enough to be taken into account by both of the super powers. The fact that Australia is not a nuclear power and has every desire to remain non-nuclear does not confer upon us some invulnerability. On the contrary it confers upon us a need to contribute as a non-nuclear power to the maintenance of the global nuclear equilibrium which is sustained by the United States. In this policy there is no provocation unless our very alliance with the United States is held to be such. I do not believe that there are any in this Parliament who would suggest that it is. To help to prevent a nuclear war is, we believe, consistent with our first and highest national interests, with our alliances - including our obligations under those alliances - and with our international obligations generally. 
I want to return, however, to the subject of China, whose military inventory contains a good deal more than nuclear weapons. The Defence Review has pointed to the expansion of China's conventional naval and air forces and to the modernisation of all 3 of the Services. While these forces are organised today essentially for the defence of China's borders, they already possess some offensive potential and it is clear that this capability will be developed further. As to the intentions of the Chinese Government there are as many predictions as there are experts. Australia is concerned no less than any other country to sustain and develop the more conciliatory international attitudes of that Government. But Chinese military capability is a factor which cannot be ignored in considering Australian security. 
I wish to say something of Australia's defence obligations in Papua New Guinea. Our hope is that Papua New Guinea will advance in security and stability through the pre-independence period and through all the years which follow independence. We have, contributed unstinted efforts to ensure this and we have high confidence in it. We must, however, recognise the contingency that in some way or in some measure the future security of that country might be threatened. The Government's view is that this and future governments must be provided with the means to act militarily in support of the Papua New Guinea Government if the need should arise. If our help should be sought, and if we should wish to respond. 
Before considering the kinds of forces needed by Australia in the future I should like to remind honourable members of the. size, capabilities and competence of the forces we now have. The situation is vastly different from that of 10 years ago. During the 1960s public attention has been focused, quite naturally, on the commitment of our forces in Vietnam and on the operations and achievements of those forces. What has perhaps been insufficiently appreciated is the major expansion of Australian defence capabilities which has been brought about by the decisions of this Government and its predecessors over the past decade. 
In this period the strength of the permanent forces overall has been increased by some. 69 per cent from 48,000 to 81,000. The Army strength has virtually doubled, new equipment has been taken into service, additional battalions have been formed and a structure established which has enabled us to sustain over a period of years a task force of 3 battalions and supporting arms in combat operations in Vietnam. The 
Navy strength has risen by 55 per cent from 11,100 in 1962 to 17,200 today. In that period HMAS 'Melbourne' has been extensively modernised and has been reequipped with new aircraft in each of the reconnaissance, strike and anti-submarine roles. Our escort fleet has been almost completely modernised with new ships. A submarine arm has been re-established and is being built up to 6 boats. A patrol boat force has been established. New fleet support and research ships have been commissioned or are building. 
Similarly in the Air Force, strength has been built up by some 43 per cent over the last 10 years to its present level of 22,700. When the Fill aircraft are brought into service next year the Royal Australian Air Force will have been virtually re-equipped with modem aircraft in each of its main roles - strike, tactical fighter, maritime reconnaissance and strategic and tactical transport. In bringing into service these new and more advanced types of equipment, each of the Services has vastly expanded and modernised its technical and supporting and maintenance establishments. Today we have substantial and effective fighting services in being, well equipped and with good morale. This is a sound base on which we can proceed with confidence to the further improvement of our defence capabilities. 
I turn now to requirements for the future. Timing of decisions for the progressive modernising and reshaping of the forces is a complex matter. We must first consider strategic need. We must take into account when existing equipment will come to the end of its operational life by attrition or by obsolesence. We must examine the lead time for the acquisition of new equipment, and this may vary from a few years to 5 years and more in the cases of the more complex items particularly if developed in Australia. We must establish when new technology will enable us to obtain weapons systems suited to our requirements and with the substantially improved performance which would justify the replacement of equipment presently in service. 
With the ending of our combat involvement in Vietnam we have an opportunity to give greater weight now to long term factors in the shaping of our forces, and to move progressively to a national defence capability appropriate to the demands which might fall on us later in this decade and into the 1980s. We shall in the first instance, as I have already said, need forces which give us a greater independent capability so that we may be more selfreliant in protecting our own interests, and in dealing with lesser military situations. Greater self-reliance will also enable us to co-operate more effectively in security matters with our neighbours, who are disposed to look to Australia for co-operation and assistance while they are developing their own forces. It is in no sense in conflict with our expectations of assistance, under ANZUS, if a major threat to our security should arise. Rather, as I have already indicated, greater self-reliance will equip us better to play our part in ANZUS. Greater self-reliance has many aspects. It means a general level of competence in defence which enables us to develop and evaluate concepts and equipments related to our own national needs. It means more selfsufficiency in combat and support arms where we might previously have looked to allies - for example in some aspects of tactical air support or specialised sea lift or in afloat support for our Navy. In the further development of our forces we need to keep under constant review the balance between land oriented capabilities and maritime oriented capabilities. 
The ratio between expenditure on capital items and expenditure on the maintenance of the forces is always a critical element in defence programming. There is a need during the mid and later seventies to spend very substantial sums on modern weapon systems and capital installations and facilities which represent long term investment in defence capabilities. We will develop our ability to give defence aid and cooperation over a wide spectrum of training, technical assistance and support and equipment for our regional allies or friends. Australian training schools have a deservedly high reputation, and our military competence is acknowledged in South East Asia. Our object must be the further development of the military capabilities of our friends in the region. We assisted the Malaysian Air Force through the gift of Sabre aircraft and an extended training programme. A similar programme is now under discussion  for  Indonesia. The Royal Australian Air Force has played an effective role in helping to develop a Bloodhound Missile system as an essential part  of  Singapore's air defence. 
 We must of course at all times ensure the progressive development of an organisational and, as necessary, physical base for the mobilisation of the nation's manpower and material resources for war. This requires, among other things, the maintenance of appropriate reserve forces for all 3 service*. 
These requirements have implications for all 3 Services. The Navy and the Air Force are concerned with the preservation of the security of our general maritime environment and with freedom of navigation. They must have a capability to engage in surveillance in the region, in Sag showing, and in combined exercises, coordinated with allied activity, in the ocean areas surrounding Australia. There will be a requirement for in-shore operations, including coastal and seabed surveillance and the protection  of  fisheries and support of the civil authorities. There will be a continuing requirement for strategic and tactical transport forces, both air and naval. Naval escort capabilities relevant to a wide range of roles are required in all probable, and in most contingent, situations. There will be a need for naval forces with an attacking capability; the composition of these forces requires further study. 
The general trend for the Army should be toward maintaining a regular force, versatile and highly trained, mobile, taking full advantage of military skills and technology, and supported by reserve forces with the potential for expansion should the situation require this. The Army must maintain a capability to deploy and sustain in operations a task force of 3 infantry battalions and with adequate independent capability for combat and logistic support. This will require the maintenance of a regular Army in the vicinity of 40,000. I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard the remainder of the document. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The remainder of the document read as follows) - 
In present circumstances this strength could be sustained only by the retention of the national service scheme. In the case of the Air Force, the requirement for a strategic strike force is confirmed by our advisers. Maritime reconnaissance and strike capability is required. There will be a continuing need for close air support, including the possible acquisition of specialised aircraft for this purpose. There will be a continuing need for air defence capability. 
On the basis of these considerations the Chiefs of Staff and the Department of Defence are currently together analysing some 70 larger weapons systems and major equipments on which decisions are said by the initiating Service to be desirable in the 5-year period 1972-73 to 1976-77- although delivery and payment would, in many cases, be spread over many years later. The equipment proposals under study are closely related to the foreseen end of life in the latter part of this decade of some of the defence capabilities now in service - such as the aircraft carrier 'Melbourne' and its helicopters, Neptune long range maritime aircraft, anti-aircraft guns and tanks and many more such cases. 
The recommendations of our advisers will come before the Government for decision in the mid year. It is not intended that al) the equipment referred to should be decided on then. The Government will then take only those decisions which should be made in the first year of the programme. Other purchases and provisions will not be decided in detail because it is the essence of programme planning not to freeze decisions prematurely. For example, we must remain sensitive to strategic changes. Negotiating positions with suppliers must be preserved and technological developments watched before finally selecting equipment. 
I have made reference to the structure of our forces and to future equipment needs but we must always be conscious of the vital importance of the individual serviceman. We must seek in all Services a high degree of individual and corporate professional competence and motivation. Effective training, job satisfaction, adequate remuneration, status, proper recognition and provision for families are some  of  the factors in producing an effective fighting force. The Government's understanding of the needs of the serviceman under today's conditions, and deep concern for the welfare of members of the Services, are reflected in the many improvements already made in conditions of service, as well as the further improvements which are under active study. 
Honourable members are aware of the work of the committee headed by  Mr Justice  Kerr which has made a comprehensive review of the fundamental conditions of service in the forces. All of the recommendations make to date by the Kerr Committee have been accepted by the Government. In addition other matters are under examination, including the review of the Defence Forces' Retirement Benefits Scheme by a Parliamentary select committee, and the future machinery for the assessment and determination of Service pay and other conditions of service. The Government is not merely concerned with the remuneration paid to servicemen, important though this is, but we endeavour to improve the status of the serviceman in the community, to increase his job satisfaction, and to minimise his disabilities, while recognising that there will always be distinctive features of Service life. Particular attention is being given to the improvement of Service housing, both as to standards and numbers. It is a matter of great satisfaction to the Government that so much has already been achieved in respect of improved conditions of service, and that this is already being reflected in improved recruiting and retention rates in the Services. 
We need a progressive and long term development of base, communications and support facilities to serve Australia and its allies, co-ordinated where appropriate with civil development. These are the costly long term assets such as dockyards, airfields, barracks, storehouses, training establishments and research facilities which cannot be created at short notice and which represent an investment for use in contingencies we cannot presently foresee. Many major decisions have been made already. Work is proceeding on the naval support facility on Garden Island at Cockburn Sound, which will serve our own forces and which we expect will be used by our allies. The first major stage will be completed in 1975. There have been major extensions to the RAAF base at Learmonth, Western Australia. The army aviation centre is being established at Oakey, Queensland. The Government has approved major works at the Jungle Warfare Training Centre at Canungra in Queensland. Plans are being developed for extensive works at Townsville and Amberley air bases, Army task forces bases, and the naval dockyard and shipbuilding facility at Williamstown, Victoria. 
The Government will continue to foster defence industry in Australia. As the result of the application of this policy we have already become largely self-sufficient in items of basic equipment, such as ammunition, small arms and general stores. We will in addition, in areas of higher technology, but of necessity on a selective basis, put into production in Australia an increasing number of those items which are strategically important. Where total production in Australia is not practical, we will continue to seek opportunities for Australian industry to participate in partproduction or, if this is not practicable, in offset or reciprocal purchasing arrangements with the overseas supplier. A particular area of project activity which we are actively pursuing is that of collaborative programmes, involving Australian participation with an overseas company in the joint design and production of equipment required in both countries. The extent to which actual contracts will result from these opportunities created by Government initiatives must ultimately depend upon the efficiency and competitiveness of our defence industry. We will, of course, continue to look for situations where the skills developed against defence requirements have a value in accelerating the technological growth of other segments of industry. 
In the time available to me this evening I have only been able to select significant aspects of Australia's situation and some of the Government's policy intentions. Other issues not calling for Government decisions now are set forward in the Defence Review in the terms in which our advisers see them. Before I conclude I return to one matter of overriding importance to the security of Australia and many other countries. 1 refer to the response which the Government believes we should adopt to the continuing defence burdens which are borne by the United States. The Government will continue to give defence cooperation to the United States. We will not impose doctrinaire conditions that would undermine the strategic mobility and the capacity for swift reaction by the United States against its adversaries. These 2 elements are the foundation of the deterrent system upon which the  President  of the United States is trying to develop understandings between the Americans and the Russians. They are the foundation for maintaining an effective balance of power in relation to a nuclear arming China - a consideration of great concern for Australia in the years immediately ahead as will be seen from the description of the subject in the Defence Review. Nor, in the Government's view, should we permit disclosure of technological military secrets to undermine such advantages in the strategic balance as the United States may possess. 
These are serious matters for the future security of smaller countries like Australia. 1 would like to say something further about the United States. The cost of keeping up the deterrent and general defence capacity borne by the American taxpayer and economy have been and are of prodigious size. We are aware of the arguments and pressures inside the United States against present levels of defence spending and defence aid. There are no comparable restraints on the growth of the mobile strategic strength of the Soviet - nor on the unannounced expansion of the land, maritime and nuclear forces of China. This is not a time for carping or sniping about American defence policies. It is. I suggest, a time to acknowledge the debt which Australians, among others, owe to the United States for the burdens it is still carrying 30 years after Pearl Harbour and after that, great country's acknowledgement of its leadership role which it has performed steadfastly since. 
1 move: 
That the Senate lake note of the statement. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Poyser)  adjourned. 
(5.14)  -  I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the Bill is to make provision - in a similar manner to the provision in section 28 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act - for the Public Service arbitration tribunal to deal with what are termed industrial situations'. In short, these are strikes, bans or limitations on work engaged in by officers or employees of Commonwealth departments or instrumentalities. 
By the terms of the Bill, if an industrial situation occurs or is threatened, a Minister, the Public Service Board, a Commonwealth instrumentality or a union may notify that situation to the Public Service Arbitrator. The Arbitrator or a  Deputy  Public Service Arbitrator will then be required to call a conference of the parties in an effort to put an end to the industrial situation. The Arbitrator or a  Deputy  Arbitrator is given power to make orders for the purposes of putting an end to or preventing that situation or orders which, in his view, are otherwise necessary or desirable because of the industrial situation. These orders may relate to the conditions of employment of the officers or employees concerned in or affected by the industrial situation or they may direct the cessation of or prohibit engaging in conduct constituting an industrial situation. These are the essential features of the Bill. 
The basic framework of the Public Service Arbitration Act is not changed. The provisions of the Act by which an organisation may lodge with the Arbitrator a claim as to conditions of employment or by which the Board, a Minister or an organisation may seek to vary an existing determination of the Arbitrator are not affected by the Bill. Why, then, is this legislation being introduced? 
The existing processes of the Public Service Arbitration Act are not designed to deal with situations of direct industrial action. The processes of the Act have remained virtually unchanged since the first Public Service Arbitration Act was enacted in 1920. They do not empower the tribunal to deal with situations of industrial action. This form of jurisdiction by the Public Service Arbitrator was simply not required when the legislation was first enacted. The system created in 1920 was designed for a far different set of circumstances from those now existing. There was then a much smaller and more homogeneous Commonwealth Public Service, with many employees being engaged in administrative and clerical duties or, put another way, in non-industrial duties. 
Today more than a quarter of a million employees or a little over 6 per cent of the total number of wage and salary earners in Australia come within the jurisdiction of the Public Service Arbitrator. Because of the growth of industrial employment with the Commonwealth in departments and instrumentalities including the Departments of Works, the Navy and Supply, the Post Office, the Commonwealth Railways and the Atomic Energy Commission, the situation today has changed. 
Some years ago, industrial action on the part of employees of the Commonwealth was mainly confined to limited areas where the employment was essentially industrial. Of more recent years, there has been an increasing tendency for a wide range of officers and employees in the Public Service to either threaten or take part in industrial action. Honourable senators will be well aware, for example, of the many interruptions to the work of the Post Office, resulting in inconvenience to the public, that have taken place as a result of strikes, bans and limitations on the performance of work by such bodies as the Amalgamated Postal Workers Union and the Union of Postal Clerks and Telegraphists. White collar and professional organisations have also shown on occasion that they are prepared to impose bans on the performance of work causing considerable disruption to the work of government in this country. 
In 1969, Parliament enacted an amending Public Service Arbitration Act which recognised the increasing arbitration activity before the Public Service Arbitrator. The stage had been reached by then with the growth in the number and variety of occupations of persons in Commonwealth employment" whereby one Arbitrator could not be expected to deal with the volume of normal business which came within his jurisdiction. Hence, the 1969 legislation made provision for the appointment of  Deputy  Public Service Arbitrators of an unlimited number. Presently, there are 2  Deputy  Public Service Arbitrators. This measure has resulted in a streamlining of the processing of claims and applications before the tribunal. 
The Government now believes the processes of the Act need further strengthening to enable speedy resolution of industrial situations. The increased incidence of industrial situations arising in Commonwealth employment demands that formal machinery be established to handle their settlement. The community is entitled to expect this when repeated efforts are made by a number of unions with members employed by Commonwealth agencies to interfere with the activities of those agencies. 
In recent years, too many situations have developed in which unions with employees in the Public Service have declined to take their claims before the Public Service Arbitrator in the normal and proper manner. Instead, they have resorted to direct action thus interfering with a wide range of Commonwealth activities such as the essential services provided by the Post Office, work in defence production establishments, the naval dockyards and the operations of such bodies as the Commonwealth Railways, the Atomic Energy Commission and the Department of Works. Moveover, industrial situations have arisen in which the claims by the unions have already been the subject of close and detailed examination by the Public Service Board including discussions and negotiations with the unions. The unions have then declined to use the normal arbitration process. 
The system of the Public Service Arbitration Act, as it stands, envisages that in circumstances in which a union is not satisfied with the response of management - in the form of the Public Service Board or a departmental or an instrumentality - it will take its claims to the 
Public Service Arbitrator. Most unions with employees in the Public Service do, in fact, follow this course of action but there are some with members employed in key areas of Commonwealth activity which reject the proper processes open to them under this Act and resort to intimidatory tactics by way of strikes or bans on work. The recent serious disputes in the Post Office fall within this category. Under the Act as it stands, it is not possible for the Public Service Board or a Minister to notify the public service arbitration tribunal of these strikes and bans. Management may only invoke the processes of the Act by seeking to vary an existing determination of the Arbitrator. 
In most dispute circumstances, there is no variation of the termination which management wishes to seek and, even if it did, this could not necessarily mean that the dispute situation could be brought before the Arbitrator. As 1 have emphasised, instances have arisen in which unions refuse to lodge claims with the Arbitrator. They have chosen to resort to strikes and bans. With all the avenues by which unions in Commonwealth employment may seek to have their claims resolved there ought not to be any resort to direct action. The Government has decided, therefore, that this Bill should be brought down in an effort to ensure that situations such as those I have just referred to can be dealt with by the public service arbitration tribunal. The tribunal will be able to make efforts to bring them to an end, to prevent them occurring and to deal with the underlying issues. 
In the past, means of an ad hoc nature have been employed to resolve Issues between parties. In some instances, these have resulted in unions finally agreeing to process their claims before the Public Service Arbitrator. This state of affairs cannot continue. The Government has concluded that the Act needs amendment in oder to ensure that industrial dispute situations are brought before the tribunal quickly. The tribunal which plays a major role in fixing terms and conditions of employment for Commonwealth employees should also be given the opportunity of making every effort to put an end to strikes, to have bans on work removed and, where appropriate, to deal with the issues that lie between the parties. 
In genera] terms, what the Bill now before Parliament contains are essentially provisions that have been part of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act since its inception. That Act enables disputes to be notified to the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. It places an obligation on the Commission to take steps for the prompt prevention or settlement of the dispute by conciliation or by arbitration. When an employer and a union are engaged in a dispute with which there may also be associated a strike or ban on work, that dispute can be notified to the Commission under section 28 of the Act. A provision of this nature is the essential feature of the Bill now before the Senate. There will be power for the Arbitrator or a  Deputy  Arbitrator by virtue of the proposed new section 12d, which is in clause 4 of the Bill, to call an immediate conference of the parties on being notified of an industrial situation. He will hear them and he will be able to make such orders as he thinks necessary or desirable for bringing the industrial situation to an end. Those orders may relate to conditions of employment of those involved in the industrial situation or they may direct the cessation of the conduct that constitutes that situation. 
Honourable senators will note the word forthwith' in the proposed new section 12d. As the Act now stands there are statutory periods to be fulfilled in the making of claims and applications and the calling of conferences. These periods can take up to at least 5 weeks. Where there is industrial action involved, however, it is imperative that the tribunal should be able to act in the quickest possible manner. Therefore, there will be no statutory periods to be fulfilled when matters of this nature are brought before the tribunal. 
It has been a feature of a number of industrial disputes in Commonwealth employment in recent times that officers and employees indicate that they are not prepared to carry out all of their normal duties. One example has been the refusal of PMG staff to handle certain classes of mail or to ban the handling of telegrams or to refuse to connect telephones to certain premises or to ban the maintenance of telephone equipment. This means that officers and employees will carry out only those duties determined by them or by their union. This is nothing short of job control. It is an attempt to undermine the undoubted right and responsibility of management to decide which work will be performed and the responsibility of Commonwealth departments and authorities to provide essential services to the general public. The Government does not believe that its employees can abrogate management's authority in this way and, at the same time, receive pay as if they had performed all their normal duties. Moreover, situations can arise in which, because of bans and other limitations upon work, the work of other Commonwealth employees is affected to such an extent that they cannot be gainfully employed. 
It is for these reasons that the definition of an industrial situation has been cast in the form in which it appears in the Bill. In addition - and I wish to be quite explicit about this,  Mr President  - we envisage that, in future situations, management may ask the public service arbitration tribunal to deal with these restrictions upon the performance of work by making orders permitting the standing down without pay of employees who cannot be gainfully employed, and/ or by making orders affecting the pay of persons who refuse to perform the full range of their duties. The power of the Arbitrator or a  Deputy  Arbitrator to make orders is not expressed in specific terms, however. We recognise that the tribunal must be given flexibility of approach in dealing with industrial situations. Nevertheless, we envisage that the tribunal may be asked to make orders, for example, relating to - 
the standing down of officers or employees involved in a dispute or who cannot be gainfully employed as a result of a dispute; 
application of the principle of 'No work-no pay' where officers " or employees refuse to do all the duties they are required to do; 
organisations being directed to withdraw bans or stoppages; 
alteration of the terms and conditions of employment of the particular class of officers or employees in an effort to overcome the cause of the 'industrial situation'. 
In concluding this speech,  Mr President,  I want to refer to a submission made last year by the Council of Commonwealth Public Service Organisations. In the course of the tripartite national conference on the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, the Council proposed changes to the Public Service Arbitration Act. The Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  agreed to discuss these matters with the Council. The Bill I am now introducing does not relate to matters advanced by the Council, and the Minister has indicated that he still intends to have discussions with the Council about its proposals. In the meantime he has met with representatives of another of the white collar 'peak* councils, the Council of Professional Associations. He has also invited the Australian Council of Salaried and Professional Associations and CCPSO to meet with him on the Public Service Arbitration Act at a convenient date. The ACTU will also be invited to participate. The matters covered by this Bill are considered by the Government to warrant immediate action. 
The Government sees this Bill as fulfilling two main purposes. The first is that it should be seen as a further step in bringing the Act into line with current needs. Thus the provisions of it will enable the Arbitrator or a  Deputy  Arbitrator to be brought into industrial situations in an effort to resolve them. The second purpose of the Bill is to ensure that remedies are available through the normal processes of conciliation and arbitration in circumstances in which Commonwealth services are disrupted by strikes or bans and limitations on work. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Brown)  adjourned. 
(12.25 a.m.) - in reply - I wish to respond briefly to a point made by  Senator Mulvihill  about a provision of the Public Service Act - I think it is section 34 - which states, amongst other things, that a person is not eligible for appointment to the Commonwealth Public Service unless he is a British subject. It is true, of course, that section 82 of the Public Service Act, which provides for the employment of persons in a temporary capacity, does not contain any provision in relation to being a British subject. It is equally true that people employed in the Australian Public Service overseas who are not nationals of Australia but who are nationals of the country in which they are employed - that is, they are locally engaged - are employed as temporary employees.  Senator Mulvihill  has, of course, raised a question of Government policy and has expressed a point of view on it. To some extent this matter was canvassed in a debate in the Senate earlier tonight - or yesterday, as it is now early in the morning. All I can say is that I will accept what he has said as an expression of his point of view in relation to the current Government policy and that I will have it referred in the normal way. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Senate adjourned at 12.27 a.m. (Thursday) 
by leave - Throughout the past year, the basic underlying policy of the Government has been to maintain balanced economic growth, including the provision of employment opportunities for our growing workforce, while at the same time braking the upward pressures on costs and prices. In a period of continually changing economic circumstances, this policy has required an appropriate flexibility of policy. 
Honourable senators will recall that in his Budget Speech the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  said that the Government would be keeping the whole situation to which budget policy was directed under very close review throughout the year. The Government's purpose in so doing, he said, was to make any adjustments in policy which might prove to be necessary. 
In accordance with this statement we have been taking action, as necessary, to meet changing social and economic circumstances. To recapitulate the highlights, we took action in October and November to increase bank lending and reduce bond rates. In December non-metropolitan employment-creating grants were introduced and the availability of credit was eased substantially. Prior to the Premiers Conference and Loan Council meeting in February we made substantial further reductions in bond rates and in bank lending and deposit rates. 
At the Premiers Conference itself we settled upon sizeable increases in the works and housing and the semi-governmental borrowing programmes of the States. At the same time we announced the doubling of the grants to the States for the amelioration of non-metropolitan unemployment, special revenue grants to the States, and substantial increases in unemployment and associated benefits. With a view to boosting confidence, the investment allowance on manufacturing plant and equipment, which had been suspended in February 1971, was restored. 
Since those February decisions there have been further reviews of the economy carried out in the Treasury and the Reserve Bank. These reviews were brought to completion 10 days or so ago. After assessment of them the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  and the Treasurer in consultation, and then the Government, have concluded that further measures directed towards our economic management and social objectives are now warranted. 
Before detailing those measures, however, let me briefly sketch in the developing economic situation as the Government sees it. 
First, let me deal with the increasingly favourable side of the economic scene. I think it fair to say that the whole tenor of public sentiment about the economy has undergone a very marked improvement. This change in mood is pleasing, confirming as it does the continuing soundness and strength of the economy. 
Strengthening confidence reflects, among other things, the objective facts of our economy, which has grown strongly and with only occasional and moderate pauses for over 2 decades. It reflects the improving current economic indicators - for example, the strengthening trend in housing approvals, the more optimistic outlook evidenced recently in the motor vehicle industry, the big export orders secured by the steel industry, the better wool prices recently evident, the general improvement in the rural sector, and so on. 
The Government sees these developments as very encouraging. But we have not been completely satisfied that the developing situation is fully matching up to the possibilities. In particular, we have noted the sluggish trend in consumer spending. Retail sales have been notably weak after very moderate growth in the 6 months to November 1971 they actually fell, in seasonally adjusted terms, by one per cent in the following 3 months to February 1972. Although revisions may alter the import of these preliminary figures, and although the figures for February have been rather better than their predecessors, there is no doubt that consumer spending has slowed markedly this financial year. The reviews available to the Government have placed some stress on this fact. 
Certainly, the Government considers this trend in consumer spending to be a matter requiring its attention. First, although as we expected unemployment has fallen off fast in absolute terms, we feel that an improvement, in seasonally adjusted terms, is still desirable. Secondly, and as a broad social rather than narrowly economic consideration, the slowing in consumer spending, at least in real terms, in part reflects the fact that price increases have had adverse effects on the purchasing power of those whose incomes depend on social service payments. Thirdly, there is the question of confidence. 
I said earlier that there has recently been a heartening resurgence of confidence. It is essential that this development be sustained and nurtured. The Prime Minister and the Treasurer have been considering carefully the far from simple issues of economic management inherent in all this. In doing so they have had in mind that, with consumer spending sluggish, there is an obvious problem in terms of whether demand will expand sufficiently, in the period ahead, to sustain that confidence to which I have already referred and upon the maintenance of which the further steady expansion of total demand depends considerably. 
In weighing this demand-supply situation they have had in mind at the same time, the fact that the rise in costs and prices is continuing. As I said at the outset, braking the upward pressures on costs and prices is one of the Government's central economic policy objectives. 
The measures being proposed aim at a moderate increase in demand which we now judge to be, within the productive capacity of the economy. They should not, therefore, create strains leading to rising costs. Moreover, the increases in disposable incomes which will follow from them' will not add to costs - in contrast to increases in money wages. When the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission brings down its judgment in the national wage case, we shall see whether our hopes of some easing of wage pressures on costs and prices are to be realised. The Commonwealth has, of course, argued before the Commission for an outcome which would be consistent with those hopes, but the decision is now in the hands of the Commission. Meanwhile, it becomes every day more necessary to consider the plight of those members of the community who are largely defenceless against the erosion of their real incomes resulting in the main from wage inflation. 
In considering these and other aspects of the matter in relation to what might be done about them now, we have also looked ahead a little towards the financial year ahead of us. It is as yet far too early to be considering in detail what may prove to be the shape of the Budget we shall bring down for 1972-73. It is apparent to us, however, that we will be able to take positive action in the Budget on both the revenue and expenditure sides. Obviously in any budget a basic problem is reconciliation of priorities. After full examination, in consultation with the Prime Minister, the Treasurer concluded that the measures shortly to be announced would in any event, merit the highest priority in the, forthcoming Budget context and would certainly not go beyond the range of prudent possibilities. Of course, the taking of measures now will re.duce the scope available to us in the Budget. What capacity will remain at that time in the policy areas now to be announced remains to be determined. 
In bringing forward now what would otherwise be Budget measures, we have in mind several considerations. First, it will reinforce the recent resurgence, of confidence. We want it to strengthen further and we see the. measures proposed as being, among other things, a measured response to this end. Secondly, the measures proposed will support consumer spending while, at the same time, bearing on the complex of social and other considerations I have mentioned earlier. Thirdly, the measures proposed are all measures which, in the normal course, we would have been including in our Budget for 1972-73. The effect of bringing their announcement forward will therefore chiefly be to bring into earlier operation policy decisions which would have been made anyway. It is our considered judgment that, in these particular circumstances, the change in timing for certain measures is feasible and I now outline them. 
(5.4) - I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to give effect to the decision which was announced a few moments ago in this place and which was announced by the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  in the other place last evening to reduce the levy on personal income tax. The cost to revenue of this reduction will be $12m in 1971-72 and $117m in 1972-73. For reasons that have been explained it is proposed that the rate of levy on personal income tax be reduced from 5 per cent to 2 per cent. New pay-as-you-earn deductions reflecting the lowering of the levy to 2 per cent from now on are to apply as from the earliest practicable pay-day. As honourable senators will appreciate, the job of printing the deduction scales is a big one, but it has been put under way in order that copies can be distributed quickly. The scales being printed are, in fact, those that applied from 1st October 1970 to 30th September 1971 and many employers will no doubt still have a copy of them available. The Commissioner of Taxation has advised that it will be in order for employers who have a copy to use it straight away. An announcement will be made when the copies now being printed become available at post offices and taxation offices. 
In assessing incomes for the 1971-72 financial year it is intended to proceed notionally on the basis that the 5 per cent levy applied for three quarters of the year and a levy of  2  per cent for the last quarter. For assessment purposes the one rate of levy is to be applied and there will be no division or apportionment of 1971- 72 income between quarters. Consequently, the rate of levy to be applied for income year 1971-72 as a whole will be 43/8 per cent. 
During the current financial year, taxpayers deriving income from sources other than salary or wages are receiving assessments based on the 1970-71 income year in which provisional tax is levied in respect of the 1971-72 income year at the rates declared by Parliament for that year. The rates now in force include the 5 per cent levy and these rates will continue to be used in assessments that issue before this Bill becomes law. Any overpayment of provisional tax will be adjusted automatically when the provisional tax levied this year is set off against the amount payable in next year's assessment. However, any taxpayer who wishes to have his assessment adjusted in the meantime can make an application to the Taxation Office for variation of provisional tax. He will then need to pay only the reduced amount payable under the new law. If the tax assessed has already been paid, the amount overpaid will be refunded on application to the Taxation Office. While this Bill in effect fixes the levy only for 1971-72, it is the Government's intention that the reduction in the levy will be on-going into 1972-73. As is customary, legislation declaring the 1972-73 rates will be presented during the Budget sittings. A memorandum explaining technical features of the Bill is being made available to honourable senators. I commend the Bill to the Senate. I hope the Bill has as speedy a passage in this place as it had in the other place. 
I wish to informthe Senate that the Minister for Trade and Industry,  Mr Anthony,  is leaving Australia today to attend the Third United Nations Conference on Trade and Development in Chile and to visit other South American countries for discussions on trade matters. He is expected to return to Australia on 8th May. During his absence the Minister for Shipping and Transport,  Mr Nixon,  is Acting Minister for Trade and Industry. 
I ask for leave to interpose  a  motion relating to the Senate. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Lawrie)  - Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
Motion (by  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson) - by leave - agreed to. 
That unless otherwise ordered at 5.45 p.m. this day the question be put, 'That the Senate do now adjojurn' 
 On 23rd February 1972  Senator Wriedt  asked me  a  question without notice concerning income distribution. The Treasurer has advised me as follows: 
I am not aware that the available statistics on income distribution show that there is 'an increasing disparity between people on high incomes and those on low incomes'. 
In any case, in Australia, award wages and salaries are determined by the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and the State arbitral tribunals, in the light of submissions made to them. The Commonwealth would not wish to undermine the independence of these authorities. The Commonwealth can, of course, seek to influence the Arbitration Commission through its submissions in the public interest to major arbitral cases. 
The Commonwealth could, for example, seek to influence the Commission to award increases which would tend to reduce the gap between low and high wages and salaries. However, in the long run, such a course would mean decreasing incentives to those obtaining higher incomes on the grounds of work, value, including considerations of training or higher education and bearing of heavy responsibilities. 
Nevertheless, in recognition of the special difficulty confronting minimum wage earners, the Commonwealth, while opposing any increase in the total wage, in its recent national wage submission said that it did not set its face against any increase in the minimum wage but added that any increase should not be of a magnitude which would have serious repercussions on the economy or which would spark off agitation for the increase in total wage rates to restore relativities. 
For the information of honourable senators  1  present a special report by the Commonwealth Grants Commission on the application made by the State of Queensland for financial assistance from the Parliament of the Commonwealth under section 96 of the Constitution. 
 Mr President,  I wish to indicate that I intend to move that the debate be adjourned. We have in fact got a little bit away from the normal procedure in respect to the putting down of reports. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI accept that there was a reason for doing so, namely, the existence of a dissenting report. In the light of what  Senator Keeffe  has said, I think that an adjournment of the debate should be sought and that the resumption of the debate should be made an order of the day for the next day of sitting in order to give those honourable senators who are not members of the Senate Standing Committee on Social Environment an opportunity to read this report. It will have to be brought on for debate at a later stage because a section of the procedures of the Senate is inherent in it. However, now is not the time to have such a debate. It is for that reason that I move: 
That the debate be now adjourned. 
Yes. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
by leave - The Senate has to deal first of all with  Senator Gair's  notice of motion, which will come on for debate in a few moments. If necessaryI will move the. relevant motion to avoid the problems of standing order 127 in relation to the 2- hour limit. Perhaps the Senate will be able to deal with  Senator Gair's  proposition within the time limit imposed. There are only 2 other items of Government Business on the notice paper. They are 2 Bills. One is the Public Service Arbitration Bill and the other is the Customs Tariff Bill (No. 2). After 8 o'clock tonight the Senate would, of course, normally deal with General Business. I have looked at the orders of the day listed under General Business. Although a good percentage of them have been on the notice paper for a fair while, if it is the wish of the Senate not to go on with General Business tonight I would not resist such a move and would therefore move for the adjournment of the Senate. But I want the Senate to deal with the Public Service Arbitration Bill today if possible. If the debate on it is not concluded earlier I would want to keep the Senate going till 5.45 p.m., which would mean that the Bill would automatically be brought on first thing next week. But if the debate on that Bill is concluded prior to 5.45 p.m. I would not be very concerned about requiring the debate on the Customs Tariff Bill (No. 2), which is only a mechanical Bill, to be resumed. I repeat that if the Public Service Arbitration Bill is disposed of at a reasonable hour this afternoon I would be prepared to agree to the Senate adjourning. 
I wish to inform the Senate that the Treasurer,  Mr Snedden,  left Australia on 14th April to attend the annual meeting of the Asian Development Bank in Vienna and to visit the United Kingdom, France and Japan for discussions on economic and financial matters. He is expected to return to Australia in early May. During his absence the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  will be Acting Treasurer. 
For the information of honourable senators, I present the following papers. 
Particulars of proposed provision for additional expenditure for the service of the year ending 30th June 1972; and 
Particulars of proposed provision for certain additional expenditure in respect of the year ending 30th June 1972. 
Honourable senators will note that, in response to requests made by Estimates Committees last year, I have arranged for the figures relating to last year's expenditure and this year's original appropriations to be included in the tabled document and for a document setting out the savings expected in appropriations to be distributed to honourable senators.  Mr President,  I ask for leave to move a motion in respect of these papers. 
(4.30) - I move: 
That the Bill be now read  a  second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend the States Grants Act (No. 2) 1971 to authorise the payment to the States in 1971-72 of further special revenue assistance totalling $15m. At the Premiers Conference and Australian Loan Council meeting on 14th February the Commonwealth and the States agreed to a series of measures under which the States and their authorities would receive additional funds totalling some $85.8m in 1971-72. The measures comprise increases in the States' works and housing programmes, increases in the States' semi-government borrowing programmes, additional grants for the relief of non-metropolitan unemployment, the additional revenue grants provided by this Bill and a special loan to New South Wales to assist that State with its budgetary difficulties. 
The increased Loan Council programmes are covered in some detail in my second reading speech on the States Grants (Capital Assistance) Bill (No. 2) 1972. The Commonwealth is providing the increased unemployment relief grants with the specific purpose of increasing employment in non-metropolitan areas and it supported the increases in the borrowing programmes also with the object of stimulating employment as well as enabling the States and their authorities to carry out additional public works, particularly in urban areas. The grants authorised by this Bill are for the purpose of assisting the States' revenue budgets, and the States may use them either to increase expenditures or to improve their budget results as they individually decide. 
This assistance will be additional to the special assistance of $40m which the Commonwealth agreed to provide in 1971-72 at the June 1971 Premiers Conference. That increase is authorised in section 10 of the States Grants Act (No. 2) 1971. As with that assistance, the present additional grants are not included in the base grants for the purpose of calculating the formula grants for 1972-73 and subsequent years. As with the earlier $40m, the present $ 15m is to be distributed between the States in the same proportions as the financial assistance grants payable to them in 1971-72 under the States Grants Act (No. 2) 1971, but before making the adjustments to those grants which are accompanying the transfer of pay-roll tax to the States. Since the amounts of these grants will not be finally determined by the Commonwealth Statistician until towards the end of the financial year, each State's share of the $1 5m is not known precisely at this stage. However, the approximate amounts payable to the States are as follows: New South Wales,$5m; Victoria, $3.7m; Queensland, $2. 3m; South Australia, $1.6m; Western Australia, $1.7m; and Tasmania, $0.7m - a total of $15m. 
It became clear during the discussions at the Premiers Conference that New South Wales had in prospect a much greater budgetary problem in 1971-72 than any of the other States. The Commonwealth therefore agreed to provide a special loan of $17. 5m to the State this financial year in order to enable it to avoid taking extreme measures to improve its budgetary position. The terms and conditions of the advance will be similar to those attached to the advance of $10m made to Victoria in 1969-70. With the concurrence of the Senate, I seek leave to have the terms and conditions incorporated in Hansard. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Davidson)  - Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The terms and conditions read as follows) - 
TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THE SPECIAL ADVANCE OF $17.5m TO BE MADE TO NEW SOUTH WALES IN 1971-72 
The terms and conditions of this advance, to be made to New South Wales on 30th June 1972, are as follows: 
The amount is repayable over 5 years by annual instalments of $3.5m on 30th June each year with the proviso that New South Wales undertakes to repay more than $3.5m in any year if its budgetary position permits. The Commonwealth has indicated that it would agree to postpone an annual instalment if it is satisfied that the New South Wales budgetary position in the year concerned does not permit repayment to be made without deficit financing. This, of course, would not affect the requirement that the whole of the loan be repaid by 30th June 1977. 
The loan carries interest at the shortterm Commonwealth bond rate of5.3 per cent offered in the February 1972 cash loan. . 
No interest is payable in the first year After this, interest is payable semi-annually on 31st December and 30th June each year on the reducing balance of the loan. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThis loan will be authorised in the Appropriation Bill (No. 5) 1971-72- that is, the Additional Estimates - to be introduced later in these sittings. The Pime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  informed the States at the Premiers Conference that, because of revisions in the estimates of increases in average wages and State populations used in calculating the financial assistance grants for 1971-72, these grants would probably be some $20m greater than the estimates included in the budgets of the Commonwealth and the States. 
Including the special assistance of $15m, but not including the special advance of $17.5m to New South Wales, it is estimated that in 1971-72 the States will receive nearly $290m in Commonwealth general revenue assistance over and above the amount they would have received had the arrangements which existed before 1970-71 continued unaltered. Thus the Commonwealth has made a very significant contribution indeed towards ensuring that the States have adequate funds available for recurrent purposes in this financial year. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator O'Byrne)  adjourned. 
(4.37)-  I move- 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to increase by $9.3m the capital grants payable to the States in 1971-72 as part of the works and bousing programmes for the year. This measure arises from the decisions agreed upon at the Premiers Conference on 14th February which, taken together, will increase the funds available to the States in 1971-72 by $85.8m. In his opening statement at the Premiers Conference, the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  said that, in the light of the Government's overall objectives, including maintaining the momentum of economic growth and hence of employment, we believed there was a case for an increase in both the works and housing and the semi-government programmes of the States. 
Within the overall picture of rather stronger growth in public sector expenditure this year than last year, total public authority capital expenditures were growing more slowly than were current expenditures. Moreover, despite considerable special assistance from the Commonwealth, rapidly escalating wage costs had meant that in 1970- 71 a number of important State works had had to be deferred. Similarly, the works activities of certain of the State semi-government and local authorites had also had to be curtailed. It was also notable that the loan raising programmes of public authorities had been very successful so far this financial year. 
The conference subsequently agreed that, firstly, the works and housing programmes of the States should be increased by $32m, bringing the total for 1971-72 to $892m and secondly, the semi-government borrowing programmes of the States should be increased by $10m, bringing the total for 1971- 72 to $436.7m. These increases were formally approved by the Australian Loan Council. It was agreed that $30m of the increase in the works and housing programmes would be on the same basis as the existing programmes - that is, approximately one-quarter would be interest-free capital grant and the remainder loan money - with the remaining $2m being entirely by way of interest-free capital grant. This additional $2m interest-free capital grant was to be provided by the Commonwealth having regard to the continuing costs in which the States would be involved in administering the conversion to the metric system. 
The States agreed that, with the assistance, which will be reflected in and will escalate with the interest-free capital grant component of works and housing programmes in the future years, they would meet these costs from their own resources. 
The increased loan funds and capital grants will be distributed between the States in the same proportions as the existing programmes. They will have a direct impact in increasing employment and will permit the carrying out of additional worthwhile public works, particularly in urban areas, such as hospitals, schools, water and sewerage projects and the like. The Commonwealth also gave an undertaking to the States that the level of the works and housing and the semi-government borrowing programmes it will be prepared to support for 1972-73 will not be less than the total programmes in 1971-72 as decided at the February meeting. 
In agreeing to the Commonwealth proposal to increase the borrowing programmes, the Premiers gave their assurance that the additional funds will, so far as is practicable without loss of efficiency and effectiveness, be utilised quickly, having in mind the desirability of producing an early impact on employment. 
I now turn to the specific provisions of this Bill. Clause 3 increases the authority to borrow by $9.3m so that, if it were judged practicable and desirable, the Commonwealth could borrow sufficient funds to cover the total amounts of the capital grants to the States. Clause 4 repeals the schedule to the principal Act and inserts a new schedule. Only the second and fourth columns of the former schedule have been changed. The second column lists the amount of the grant payable to each State in 1971-72. The amounts in the schedule to the principal Act have been increased as follows: 

<graphic href="051232197204182_20_0.jpg"></graphic>

The fourth column in the new schedule, as in the schedule to the principal Act, shows amounts equal to half the corresponding amount in the second column. The amounts in the fourth column represent the maximum advances which may be made in the first half of 1972-73 pending the passage of legislation to authorise the capital grants in 1972-73. The provisions of this Bill form part of a series of measures that were designed to produce an early impact on employment, and will permit the carrying out of additional worthwhile works projects. They have been warmly welcomed by all the Premiers. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator O'Byrne)  adjourned. 
(11.38) - in reply -  Senator Poyser  spoke - it seem a long time ago now - in relation to a question which he put on the notice paper on 18th August 1971 to which he has not received a reply. I am not in a position to reply to it. Normally replies would be given at question time. They are made available to me and it is my responsibility to put them down. Nevertheless I will refer to the Prime Minister's Department the points of view expressed by  Senator Poyser  tonight. There are 3 questions involved and they would all require an answer from the Department. I have no doubt that the Prime Minister's Department would want to obtain some of the information required from possibly the Department of the Interior and certainly the Department of Supply. I will faithfully send to the departments the additional points raised tonight bv  Senator Poyser. 
From my experience as Minister for Supply I know, as I think all honourable senators would know, that facilities are made available under conditions and as a consequence of decisions that are taken at an appropriate time.  Senator Poyser  is suggesting in his question - and he has elaborated it tonight - that certain former Prime Ministers have transport facilities made available to them but others of another vintage do not. I am sure that at the time when those former Prime Ministers retired from the Parliament appropriate provision was not made for them as was subsequently made for  Sir Robert  Menzies and  Sir John  McEwen. Those facilities would have been made available under conditions which would have certain limitations in them - probably the same limitations as are made for Ministers, Leaders of the Opposition and other leaders of parties in relation to the provision of transport. I will ascertain the facts for the honourable senator in due course. 

 Senator Poyser made certain suggestions about the drivers of 2 vehicles. He said that he had information from an impeccable source about the duties which the drivers were required or not required to do. I cannot comment on his remarks. It would be quite improper for me to do so, but the points made by  Senator Poyser  will be referred to the appropriate authorities. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 

On 23rd March 1972  Senator Webster  asked me a question as Minister representing the Prime Minister concerning the problems created by the growth in capital cities. The Prime Minister has now supplied the following supplementary information: 
While the development of the cities is primarily a State responsibility, the Commonwealth, nevertheless, retains a very close interest in these matters, particularly the question of decentralisation and regional development. 

 Senator Webster is, no doubt, aware of the work of the Commonwealth/State Officials' Committee on Decentralisation. The Committee has, among other things, been considering many of the problems referred to by  Senator Webster  and it has commissioned a number of studies on matters relevant to decentralisation. These studies range over a wide field and include labour characteristics in metropolitan and non-metropolitan areas, costs of providing government-type services in centres of various, size and the costs to firms locating in various areas. The Committee is nearing the completion of a report which, among other things, will bring together the findings of the commissioned studies. When finalised, this report will be circulated for consideration by the Commonwealth and State Governments and will be given the most careful consideration by the Commonwealth Government. 
I want to explain what is happening in relation to the conduct of the business. There are 3 Bills which, with the cooperation of the Opposition parties, have been given a speedy passage in the other place. They are the Social Services Bill (No. 2) and the Repatriation Bill, and the Seamen's War Pensions and Allowances Bill which is complementary to the other 2 Bills. The message covering the Social Services Bill has arrived, and we are expecting almost immediately the messages for the other two bills. The Government proposes to introduce all three bills. I understand from  Senator Willesee  - and I am sure  Senator Gair  would agree - that the Opposition is agreeable to their being proceeded with now and disposed of without the need to take an adjournment of the debate. I understand that this arrangement has been entered into between the Parties. I am sure  Senator Gair  would agree with that, too, to give a speedy passage to the 3 Bills which provide additional benefits and pensions for the 3 categories of persons. I therefore move: 
That other business be postponed until the Social Services Bill (No. 2), Repatriation Bill and Seamen's War Pensions and Allowances Bill have been disposed of. 
I have moved this motion on the assumption that messages covering the Repatriation Bill and Seamen's War Pensions and Allowances Bill will arrive. I am fairly confident that they will. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
by leave - Pursuant to the document 1 put down yesterday, it is now incumbent upon honourable senators to deal with the appropriations in the Estimates committees. I move: 
That Estimates Committee A and Estimates Committee C meet tomorrow from 2.1S p.m. until 5.30 p.m., or such earlier time as may be appropriate; that on Wednesday, 26th April, Estimates Committee B and Estimates Committee D meet from 8 p.m. until 10 p.m., and that on Thursday, 27th April, Estimates Committee E meet from 2.15 p.m. until 5.45 p.m. 
It is estimated, having regard to the fact that there are supplementary estimates which take a much shorter time to deal with, that the times I have mentioned will reasonably accommodate the consideration of the Estimates. This is estimated against the background of the time we have used in previous years on supplementary estimates. 
(11.55) - in reply -  Senator Keeffe  raised a matter during the adjournment debate tonight and he has supplied me with a bottle confining some liquid or fluid which he indicated in his speech had some improper mixtures in it. I listened to him very carefully. It may well be that the points he raised are not within the jurisdiction of the Commonwealth but are within thejurisdication of the States. However, in fairness to him I will sort that out and try to seek the facts for him. He also said that this might be a matter for the Department of Customs and Excise. I will have that examined too, and report to him in due course. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I regret to inform the Senate of the passing on 17th April of a former senator, Charles Adcock Lamp. He was elected to the Senate for Tasmania in the general elections of 1937 and 1943. He represented his State in this place until 30th June 1950. A measure of the late senator's interest in the affairs of the Senate can be seen from his membership of the following committees: He was a member of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works from 11th December 1940 to 31st October 1949; the Joint Committee on Repatriation from 4th June 1942 to 28th January 1943; and the Parliamentary Joint Committee on War Expenditure from 12th November 1941 to 7th July 1943. He was the leader of the Australian delegation to the 28th Session of the International Labour Conference in Seattle in 1946. 
Not only was Charles Lamp a well liked and hard working senator but he was also highly respected within the Australian Labor Party of which he was a member. He held the position of Secretary of the Tasmanian Branch of the Australian Labor Party and the Launceston Trades Hall Council. He had a distinguished war record. He enlisted in the Australian Imperial Force in 1916 and served with the 9th Field Company Engineers. He was wounded in action in France in 1918 and returned to Australia one year later. 
The late senator was here before most of us who sit in the Senate at present were elected to this place and therefore many of us, except perhaps the Tasmanians, would not have known him personally. Charles Adcock Lamp served his country in war, and in peace he served his country as a member of the Senate. He will be missed by all those who knew him, particularly in the parliamentary scene and certainly in his own State of Tasmania. 
I wish on behalf of all senators to offer condolences and sympathy to his family in his sad passing. 
(10.47) - in reply - The Public Service Arbitration Bill has been debated in this chamber for some days.  Senator Bishop  led for the Opposition and he was followed by other speakers. The debate has ranged far and wide in many ways. All sorts of extraneous comments have been made with the indulgence of our Presiding Officers, but there always is indulgence during second reading speeches. It would be inappropriate for me to attempt to respond to all the arguments put forward. The point that I want to make quite clear is that from the very outset the Australian Labor Party decided to oppose this Bill in its entirety. That was the approach adopted by the Opposition. It was a judgment it made, as it was entitled to do if that was its wish as a party. In those circumstances, there being straight out and absolute opposition to the Bill, I think that much the same should happen here as happened in the other place where it originated. In fact in the other place the Australian Labor Party indicated its complete opposition to the Bill and there was the very minimum of debate. Indeed, during the Committee stage in the other place, there was only one short reference to it. The Bill passed through the other House and therefore I believe that I am entitled to adopt the view tonight that I should put it to the test in the Senate. 
I propose to do that very thing in a moment or two. The Australian Labor Party opposes this Bill and the Government believes that its passage is appropriate. I think I should repeat the first 2 paragraphs of my second-reading speech because this debate ranged over all manner of things which are unrelated to the Bill.  Senator O'Byrne  even mentioned Spain a moment ago. Many other countries were mentioned also. All sorts of judgments were expressed about it. In my secondreading speech I said: 
The purpose of the Bill is to make provision - in  a  similar manner to the provision in section 28 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act - for the Public Service arbitration tribunal-- 
This is contrary to what has been said - to deal with what are termed 'industrial situations'. In short, these are strikes, bans or limitations on work engaged in by officers or employees of Commonwealth departments or instrumentalities. 
By the terms of the Bill, if an industrial situation occurs or is threatened, a Minister, the Public Service Board, a Commonwealth instrumentality or a union may notify the situation to the Public Service Arbitrator. The Arbitrator or a  Deputy  Public Service Arbitrator will then be required to call a conference of the parties in an effort to put an end to the industrial situation. The Arbitrator or a  Deputy  Arbitrator is given power to make orders for the purposes of putting an end to or preventing that situation or orders which, in his view, are otherwise necessary or desirable because of the industrial situation. These orders may relate to the conditions of employment of the officers or employees concerned in or affected by the industrial situation or  they  may direct the cessation of or prohibit engaging in conduct constituting an industrial situation. 
There is a point which I shall make in relation to a matter which was dealt with by  Senator Bishop,  who led for the Opposition. He said that the unions had been frustrated by the Public Service Board. This hardly conforms to the facts. 1 have a document here which 1 think is rather significant. It contains information taken from the Public Service Board report. It shows the very great extent to which determinations of the Arbitrator have been made by consent, that is, by agreement between the Public Service Board and the unions. We find that in 1961-62 there were three arbitrated determinations and 32 consent determinations, a total of 35. I shall go down the list quickly because I want to get this matter to a division in a moment. In 1965-66 there were 10 arbitrated determinations and 131 consent determinations. In 1968-69 there were 14 arbitrated determinations and 232 consent determinations. For 1970-71 the figure is 31 and 249, a total of 280. 
A whole series of points have been made. If we were in a different situation and if this were a different type of debate and a. different type of Bill we could deal with the points. It is not moving an amendment to the Bill but it is going to vote coldly against it. I think we should put the Bill to the test, and therefore I ask that the motion for the second reading be put. 
Question put: 
That  the Bill be now read  a  second time. 
by leave - On behalf of  Senator Prowse  I move: 
That pursuant to a resolution carried by the Standing Committee on Primary and Secondary Industry and Trade the Committee as named above be in future known as the 'Standing Committee on Industry and Trade.' 
Several days ago I undertook to make a ministerial statement on optometrical services in response to a question asked by  Senator Guilfoyle.  I seek leave of the Senate to incorporate that statement in Hansard. 
(12.20) - Let us get down to earth on this matter. This Bill was presented in the other place on 23rd March. Today is 20th April. So any suggestion that some new situation has been put upon the Opposition is absolute nonsense. Let us not pull our punches if that is the way the Opposition wants it. Let us be completely factual about this matter. The situation is that the official Opposition in the other place, which is known as the Executive House, made it abundantly clear that it would oppose the Bill at all stages regardless of what was said. Let us not have any nonsense about this. That has been the attitude here. In leading for the Opposition,  Senator Bishop  said almost in his first sentence that the Opposition would oppose it. The Opposition was not approaching the exercise taking an angle in relation to certain matters. The Opposition intended to oppose the Bill come hell or high water. Honourable members opposite know that that is true. What happened in the other place? In the other place during the Committee stage the shadow Minister for Labour and National Service did not even speak on the Bill. Only one backbencher Opposition  speaker  spoke during the Committee stage. 

Very well. He was overseas but nobody in the shadow Ministry spoke. There was only one  speaker  and he spoke for only 7 minutes. Now the Bill is before the Senate. The Opposition has made great play of the fact that it will deal with the Bill clause by clause, word by word. Whom does it think it is kidding? The fact of the matter is that  Senator Cavanagh  always puts his mind to these matters and speaks at length. With great respect to him, he said himself that he was speaking in opposition all the time, and he said in advance that the Opposition would oppose the Bill anyway. That is a fact of life. We are dealing with the Bill in the Committee stage now. If we are to have a discussion in Committee at length, let us conduct that discussion with the background that, regardless of what has been said, the Opposition is opposed to it. 
I do not want to be difficult about  Senator Cavanagh's  reference to clause 2 because I know that he was using the clause as a vehicle to make his point. We all live with that. The honourable senator could do that on the third reading of the Bill if he so wished. Clause 2 deals with the Bill coming into operation from the date that it receives royal assent. As we know, this is a machinery clause. That is what happens with 99.9 per cent of all Bills that go through this place. It is a machinery provision to bring the Bill into effect with the royal assent. I finish on this note in regard to clause 2 with the indulgence of the chair, because I deal with what  Senator Bishop  has said. The fact of the matter is that I am following the pattern of what happened in the other place. The Opposition has made it clear that it will oppose the Bill. It has given good reasons why it will oppose the Bill. It can oppose the Bill again in this place if it wants to clause by clause. Naturally, I will listen to what honourable senators say and it will be recorded in the Hansard. But the die is cast. 
(12.33)  -  The Committee is dealing with clause 3.  Senator Bishop  drew an analagous argument with respect to clause 4, but I wish to deal with the matter on the basis of the provisions of clause 3. As we know, clause 3 amends section 3 of the principal Act which relates to definitions. Clause 3 provides for a new concept of industrial situation'. This was the point, to which reference has been made. Clause 3 means that the definition of 'determination' is amended to include an order made by the Arbitrator under the new provisions for dealing with industrial situations. 
Industrial situation' is defined also. An industrial situation is analagous to an industrial dispute as defined in the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. The definition is couched in very wide terms to cover stoppages of work in general, bans or limitations on particular work or work in a particular area, working to regulations, refusal to work overtime, refusal to carry out particular duties, go slows and refusal to obey directions. It also adds a new sub-section (2.) to section 3. This new sub-section provides that conduct of officers or employees can constitute an industrial situation even though the conduct relates to part only of the duties that officers or employees are required to perform, lt deals, for example, with a refusal by employees who perform all other duties to process telegrams. 
The point was made, as I grasped it, that the legislation casts a wide net  -  I think that that was the inference to be drawn from what was said - and that that ner catches the Public Service unions. In fact, the situation is that no net is put out by the Bill. It merely provides the means  cif  getting strikes and other forms of direct action before the Public Service Arbitrator. The Arbitrator has to hear the parties to those industrial situations. He does not have an unlimited discretion. He is given the responsibility of calling the parties before him and of trying to reach a settlement. Notwithstanding the firm references made to me by both honourable senators, 1 point out that in attempting to have the second reading debate disposed of before 1 1 o'clock last night I quoted some figures in relation to settlements that have been made and, if necessary,  will quote those figures again in the Committee stage. 
The Arbitrator is given power to (eli unions not to engage in industrial action. He is given power to deal with the issues in dispute. He is given power to deal with other applications that may be made to him. As I pointed out in the second reading speech, management might ask the Arbitrator to order the standing down of employees who cannot be gainfully employed because of a strike or the standing down of employees who refuse to do all their duties. The point I want to make is that equally the unions can ask that their claims be dealt with and resolved, lt is not a one way ride, as has been implied. What remedy is used by the Arbitrator or what course he takes is up to him to decide. I return to the point that has been made, namely, that the Opposition opposes these things; it does not accept them. Quite frankly, when we get to the moment of truth, when the Government says that it believes that they are right and the Opposition says that it does not accept them, I believe that we should decide the issue by ascertaining the will of the Senate. 
by leave - I make the following statement on travelling allowances for members of Parliament on behalf of the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon). 
In response to representations from both sides of the House, the amounts of travelling allowances paid to members of Parliament have been reviewed. Along with his recommendations for increased salaries,  Mr Justice  Kerr in his report tabled in Parliament on 8th December 1971 recommended that travelling allowances payable to members and to Ministers and officeholders be increased. The Government subsequently decided not to proceed with any of the 3 Bills relating to increases in Parliamentary salaries and allowances. That remains the position. Travelling allowances are not covered in this legislation and can be regarded separately from salaries, electorate allowances and Ministerial allowances. 
The travelling allowance, or Canberra allowance, paid to members of Parliament for living expenses and out-of-pocket expenses incurred in attending Parliamentary sittings has been $15 a day since 1968.  Mr Justice  Kerr recommended $22 a day. In several areas of the Commonwealth Service in Canberra in the less senior grades, the travelling allowance now paid is higher than the Canberra allowance paid to members of Parliament. It has been put that to meet members' increased living costs in Canberra and the increased costs of out-of-pocket expenses, the current rate of Canberra allowance should be increased. It has been decided to accept this view and to increase the allowance to $22 a day as recommended by  Mr Justice  Kerr.  Mr Justice  Kerr made recommendations about the payment of Canberra allowance for Party and Committee meetings held when the Parliament is not sitting. These recommendations will be accepted. It was also recommended that the conditions of payment of travelling allowance be clarified. With this objective, a review of the conditions of payment will be undertaken. As part of his general review,  Mr Justice  Kerr recommended that members of Parliament residing in the Australian Capital Territory should receive half the Canberra allowance. As this matter is now being treated in isolation, it has been decided that members of Parliament residing in the Australian Capital Territory will not receive any increase in Canberra allowance but will not have the allowance reduced. These members will continue to receive $15 a day. 

 Mr Justice Kerr recommended increased travelling allowances for Ministers and office-holders. In general, the amounts of these allowances have not changed since 1964. The allowances are paid for travel away from Canberra on official or Parliamentary business. The recommended allowances were: 

<graphic href="052232197204261_14_0.jpg"></graphic>

These recommended amounts of travelling allowance will be paid. The current travelling allowance of $21 a day payable to members of some Parliamentary committees for meetings away from Canberra will be increased to $25 a day. Travelling expenses will be reimbursed to Assistant Ministers to a maximum of $25 a day. The new rates will be payable from tomorrow. 
Sitting suspended from 4.26 to 10.15 p.m. 
(10.40)  -  I say at the outset that I have never heard anything like that dose of sheer and utter trivia in my life before. It is trivia in a national parliament and might, be described as an attempt to walk around standing order 418 and cast a reflection on a member of Parliament in another place. I must admit that 1 am appalled to think that the Leader of the Opposition in this place  (Senator Murphy)  should do this. I believe that this exercise was attempted to divert attention from what is happening in the Labor Party and its own problems at Newcastle in the Shortland electorate. Believing that and having stated it I do not propose to respond to what  Senator Murphy  said because it is utter trivia. In the national parliament, whether at question time or when legislation is being dealt with, emphasis is put on the conduct of the affairs of the nation for the good of the people of Australia. 
The Leader of the Opposition has said that there was a meeting of some group at which he claims a member in another place was present and therefore it was evil and wrong and damaging to a certain Party and that it reflects on the corner Party here, the Australian Democratic Labor Party. If that is the best that the Australian Labor Party can do then I say that we have nothing to worry about in the future. Obviously  Senator Murphy  did not have his heart in his job. Obviously he did not have a stomach for what he was saying in view of the way in which he put his case. He knows in his heart as do the men who sit behind him that this is an attempt to use the character of a person in a political exercise. I must say that I am terribly disappointed in  Senator Murphy,  I conclude on this note: If there is anything to be said about another man in another place let somebody get up on his feel and say it there. Let him have the guts to do it there. 
 Mr President,  the Prime Minister has just concluded, or has almost concluded, in another place a statement relating to the Advisory Committee on Science and Technology. This statement has been circulated to honourable senators and, as it is fairly long, I ask that it be incorporated in Hansard. 
The Prime Minister has provided the following answerto the honourable senator's question:  (1), (2) and (3) 1 have been advised that the following table contains the information requested in the honourable senator's question as at 20th April 1972. 
(12.11)  -  I move: 
That the sitting of the Senate be suspended until S.30 p.m. and that Estimates Committees B and D meet during the suspension. 

 Mr President, perhaps I should indicate at this stage the proposed programme for this evening. It has been indicated to me that there is a desire to sit tonight and discuss certain items listed under General Business. In response to an understanding I gave to the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Willesee),  I propose to suggest to the Senate at 8 o'clock tonight when General Business is called on that we go through the items listed under General Business and Orders of the Day in the notice paper and, if it is the will of the Senate, remove those items which have become redundant or which have become dated. Those items which any honourable senator wants to be left on the notice paper will be left on it. But where it is unanimously agreed that certain items should be removed from it, I think we should dispose of them in that manner. In that way we would be able to clear up the items listed in the notice paper under General Business and Orders of the Day. 
After that has been done 1 propose to have called on item No. 12 under General Business, which is in the name of the Leader of the Opposition and which is a matter of particular interest to all honourable senators. It relates to the question of the examination of committee reports. I do not want to canvass that item at this stage. I repeat that after the notice paper has been cleaned up in respect to both of the heads to which I have referred I think the Senate should deal with item No. 12. After the Leader of the Opposition has put his case the Government will give its view. Discussion will then continue on that item. I do not propose to call on item No. 13 if the discussion on item No. 12 is concluded. 
by leave - I wish to refer to the interim report of the Senate Standing Committee on Industry and Trade which has just been presented. The Committee in this report states that it will report to the Senate in more detail within the 28 days specified in the reference, but it then goes on to say, after giving the historical background: 
. but takes this early opportunity to ask the concurrence of the Senate to agree to the Committee's suggestion not to continue further with its investigations under its existing terms of reference. 
As Leader of the Government in the Senate I am placed in a rather awkward situation because I am confronted with a proposal of which as yet I have no official knowledge. If by just doing nothing we indicate that the Committee has the concurrence of the Senate to take no further evidence, I think I will have to make a judgment in that regard. If the mere putting down of the interim report means that the Committee will not carry on with its investigations, I think the Senate has to make a judgment in that regard also. In those circumstances I think we ought to adjourn consideration of this document to a later hour tonight so that we can have a look at our position in relation to it. lt may well be that honourable senators wish to think about this matter. I cannot say off the cuff what are the views of honourable senators. This is not clear, and I think we ought to give the  Chairman  of the Committee an opportunity to tell us what he intends to do. Of course, consideration of this matter could be made an order of the day for another day, but in fairness to the Committee which perhaps is wanting some guidance I think I should put forward the proposal that the matter be made an order of the day for a later hour of the day. That will not inhibit  Senator Murphy  or  Senator Gair  from speaking on this matter and they will have a motion to which they can speak. At least this will give the Party leaders a chance to consider their position. I move: 
That consideration of the interim report of the Senate Standing Committee on- Industry and Trade be made an order of the day for a later hour today. 
(9.47)- I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time 

 Mr President, this Bill was introduced in the other place on 12th April. I ask for leave to incorporate the second reading speech in Hansard, after which the Opposition will move for the adjournment of the second reading debate. 
(10. 1) - Before the next Bill is called on, I crave the indulgence of the Senate to move a motion in relation to tomorrow's sitting programme. I move: 
That between 4 p.m. and 6 p.m. tomorrow the sitting of the Senate be suspended to enable Senate Estimates Committees B and E to meet. 

The Prime Minister has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's questions: 
I have been informed that so far, $1,624,318 has been paid to the Queensland Government in connection with cyclone Althea. Of this amount, $233,180 was for relief of personal hardship and distress: $643,233 for restoration of State Government assets; and $747,905 for restoration of local government assets. 

The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
Remuneration paid to chemists including professional fees for supplying pharmaceutical benefits takes into account the aspects of physical work done by pharmacists, as well as the professional knowledge and responsibility accepted and discharged by them. 
The answer to the honourable senators question is as follows: 
and (2) The question of whether a person treated for an injury in a hospital operating theatre, but not admitted to hospital overnight, is eligible for benefits depends on the rules of : he registered medical or hospital benefits organisation with which he is insured. Until recently organisations registered to operate in Queensland did not pay such benefits. 
However, the Queensland Council of National Health Benefit Organizations at a recent meeting recommended to its member organisations that they should consider the introduction of an ancillary fund benefit of $10.00 for a theatre fee incurred by an outpatient for treatment received at an approved hospital. 
The following hospital benefits organisations registered to operate in Queensland have made application and been given approval to pay this benefit as from 1st April 1972- 
Ancient Order of Foresters Friendly Society in Queensland; 

The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
I am not aware that disagreement exists between the States concerning health dangers associated with cigarette smoking. 1 understand that State Health Ministers have repeatedly acknowledged authoritative medical evidence linking smoking with many diseases. There has been a number of discussions on this subject at Conferences of Commonwealth and State Health Ministers over the last decade. Responsibility for all forms of advertising and promotion, except on radio and television lies with the individual States who would need to introduce appropriate legisla tion. Control over advertising on radio and television of products such as cigarettes tests with my colleague, the Postmaster-General. On 23rd April 1972 in  a  Press statement on the health hazards of cigarette smoking I announced decisions taken by the Government to combat this problem. The Government has decided to implement a national health education programme directed towards young people and to seek uniform State and Commonwealth action on the health labelling of cigarette packages. The Government will also require that all cigarette advertising on radio and television include a health warning. The Government will make amounts of up to $500,000 available for each of the next 3 years for a national health education programme. Details of the implementation of these decisions will be discussed in the near future with all appropriate bodies. 

The Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Annual surveys of the economies of member countries are ;t regular and important feature  of  the work of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. 
As a first stage of the 1972 survey of Australia, a small team of experts from the OECD Secretariat will visit Australia for several days in September. 
The team will then return to Paris to prepare a draft report for consideration by the Economic and Development Review Committee of the Organisation. 
The Committee will consider the draft report at the earliest opportunity after it becomes available, but the programme of committee meetings for the second half of 1972 has not yet been fixed. 
The report will bc published as soon as possible after the Committee has finalised  it. 
Present indications are that the likely time of publication wil! be late December or early January 1973. 
I concur completely with the generality of what you have suggested,  Mr President.  I think we all recognise that what you have proposed is in the interests of the management of the Senate. I also think that  Senator Cavanagh  has a point. lt may well be that, when the very first petition of a particular nature is presented and read, any other honourable senator who has an identical petition should stand up and say:  'Mr President,  I have an identical petition which I ask to be dealt with in the same way'. An honourable senator could say that in a minimum of words. It should not be necessary for an honourable senator to go through the procedure of saying that a petition is properly worded, that is has the Clerk's certificate and that it ends with a prayer. He should be able to stand in his place and simply say:  'Mr President,  1 have an identical petition', and it should be dealt wilh in the same way. At the end of the presentation of petitions a motion could be moved that those petitions be received. I think the point that is being made is that the honourable senator who receives a petition from a certain number of people has to be seen to be in his own right presenting that petition. I think that that is the point which is being made. Your suggestion.  Mr President,  would reduce the verbiage involved in the presentation of a petition. We should be able to do something along those lines. 
(3.28)  -  I should like the debate on the motion to be adjourned because I do not know, in an ad hoc situation, where the motion will take us. I would agree to its being brought on again, perhaps tomorrow. I certainly would need time to reflect upon it because, I think all would agree, it opens a wide spectrum of possibilities in relation to all petitions. I think all honourable senators would want to look at the position to see where the implications of such a proposal would lake us. 
Motion - by leave - withdrawn. 
(4.1)  -  A motion was carried yesterday to the effect that Estimates Committees would meet at 4 o'clock today. But, in view of the fact that a rather longer delay than expected took place in dealing with petitions, I would be perfectly happy to amend that resolution. I move: 
That the suspension of the sitting to enable Estimates committees to meet be postponed until 4.15 p.m. 
(8.41)  -  in reply - I thank the Senate for the passage of the second readings of the 2 Bills that are being debated concurrentlythe States Grants Bill 1972 and the States Grants (Capital Assistance) Bill (No. 2) 1972. Dealing with the contribution made by  Senator Little  who has just concluded, I say that he really was indicating his support and the support of his Party for the Bills, but he then chose to canvass a much wider area in relation to Commonwealth-State relations and the financial agreement existing between the Commonwealth and the States. The fact of the matter is that this has been an area of debate for a good many years now. It is fraught with many problems. I find difficulty in separating a man who is a Commonwealth man from a man who is a State man. lt all depends on which coat one wears on a particular day. The Commonwealth is comprised of the people of Australia. The States have a financial agreement with the Commonwealth. In fact, that agreement is adjusted from time to time. 
The suggestion made by  Senator Little  was that, because the Commonwealth is the recipient of the revenue under our Constitution and our arrangement, it is an evil body and is doing a terrible thing when it gives money to the States. Human nature being what it is- 

The honourable senator may take the call if he wishes. I will sit down and let him talk. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI do not want any interruptions from  Senator Gair  either. If any honourable senator wants to speak I will listen to him. When I speak I like to be able to make my argument in the same way as I let  Senator Little  make his. I am saying that this is trying to identify the Commonwealth as the bad body because it is the giver and the States as being wonderful because they are the recipients. It does not work that way. A formula applies in relation to the Commonwealth-State financial agreement. Because the States have found themselves in certain difficulties in their economic structures these Bills are designed to provide certain extra moneys. I am sorry that the semantics of the second reading speeches where the Commonwealth said that it had done this offended  Senator Little.  The Commonwealth Government has done these things. I find it hard to sustain the argument that the Government should not say a few things in. praise of what it has done. 
Be that as it may, in truth what the honourable senator said covers a broad canvas in relation to Commonwealth-State relations. It is related to the CommonwealthState financial agreement. We have debated it here before and we. will debate it again. Perhaps the remarks he made would be made better in that context than in relation to these Bills because the honourable senator and the whole of the Senate have agreed that we will pass them. Having said that, I think that I should be very brief in my response to other honourable senators. I want to make reference to some matters that were raised by  Senator Devitt.  He made reference to the special arrangements in relation to Tasmania because it is a claimant State and to the principles of the Commonwealth Grants Commission. The Commission was set up to give special consideration and special assistance to the States which are claimant States. The word 'claimant' is only meant to indicate that they are in a more difficult financial situation. Special arrangements are made to give them special moneys. 
I think that is right. I remember that when I was in the New South Wales Parliament - and I have no doubt that  Senator Gair  was reflecting back to the time when he was Premier of Queensland - it was generally said, if a State was a claimant State, that it was a mendicant State. I think that is the reference and I can well recall it.  Senator Devitt  suggested that Tasmania had lost some part of its independence through being a claimant State and having to satisfy the Commonwealth Grants Commission of the need for a special grant. I do not think that is right. The whole concept of the Commonwealth Grants Commission is to give this assistance without in any way impairing the sovereignty of that State. This is a common misunderstanding which should be corrected. The Commonwealth Grants Commission has made it clear time and time again, in its reports and in statements made by its members at the various hearings, that in its recommendations it does not attempt and would not contemplate attempting to influence the financial decisions of a State which has sought a special grant. I believe that history shows - I think  Senator Gair  would acknowledge this - thai the Commonwealth Grants Commission assistance given over the years has not been intended and must never be allowed to be intended to put some restriction on the sovereignty, management and administration of a particular State. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI suppose that the facts of life are - this applies to any group of people whether they form a company, a society or a government - that there is always an element and must always be an element which suggests that if you respond to appeals too quickly it tends to take away the initiatives and the driving forces from those groups - be they companies, societies or governments. That is a generality. I would not like to put commitments on governments in that sense in this day and age. Down through history since Federation, what  Senator Gair  says may have had application. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThese are some of the elements that come into the point I made on the matter which was raised earlier by  Senator Little.  These are some of the elements that have to be taken into account in relation to the CommonwealthState financial agreement. I thank the Senate for the support that it has given to the second reading of the Bills. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That, unless otherwise ordered, the days and times of meeting of the Senate for the remainder of the present period of sittings be as follows: 

<graphic href="052232197205112_0_0.jpg"></graphic>

by leave - Other petitions in identical terms have been presented, and I suggest that they formally be dealt with in the same manner. 
(8.3) - It is my understanding that order of the day No. 2 was removed from the notice paper today. It dealt with only an interim report. A major report has been presented and the interim report was included in that. So we can remove this item from the notice paper. 
(8.0) - The first item of General Business on the notice paper is the Merino Rams Export Prohibition Bill 1970. It has been there for a a very long time. I would suggest that, if the Opposition does not want to debate it, the best thing to do would be to remove it from the notice paper. 
For reasons which are obvious, I suggest that the best way to deal with this matter is for the Senate to take note of the paper. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONNo, I do not think we need do that because the other report was only an interim report. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONYes, it is part of the whole report. An interim report was put down in September 1970 and that is now in the new report before the Parliament. Therefore I move: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
(3.10)  -  Thank you for calling me.  Mr President.  I do not close the debate because, from memory,  Senator Murphy  took the adjournment of the debate. After I have spoken and if there is any time remaining within the time limit imposed by the Senate, it will be the will of the Senate whether the matter will be continued and left on the business paper. The report of the Senate Standing Committee on Health and Welfare is, without challenge, a magnificent report. As did other speakers. 1 acknowledge the tremendous contribution that was made to the preparation of the report by the  Chairman, Senator Dame  Ivy Wedgwood. It is true that she had a good team with her. lt was drawn from both sides of the Senate. It considered the reference and presented what 1 would say is virtually a blueprint of what is required to solve the problems relating to mentally and physically handicapped persons in Australia. 
The report having been presented to the Senate, the question of what was to be done with it arose. There is a parliamentary procedure in relation to committee reports. In my capacity as Minister for 
Health, I intervened. The nature of the report, the magnitude of the recommendations and the considerations that were involved meant that it was, as I saw it, almost a blueprint - the ultimate - of what should be done in this field. Obviously if we are to get the most effective result from it an interdepartmental committee would need to examine it. 1 will return to and develop that aspect a little later. It was because of that belief in my mind, as the responsible Minister, that I, with the concurrence of the Government, referred the report to an inderdepartmental committee of which a very senior officer of my Department is the  chairman.  The other departments involved are Social Services, Repatriation, Education and Science, Labour and National Service, Treasury, Prime Minister and Cabinet, the Public Service Board, and Interior. Each of those departments has a role to play in relation to the recommendations contained in the Standing Committee's report. In some form or other there is a recommendation relating to each of them, with perhaps greater emphasis on the Departments of Social Services and Health. 
The interdepartmental committee is functioning. When it has done what it considers to be a sufficient amount of study and work in relation to the report, it has the option as was suggested by one honourable senator, of taking some of the recommendations in isolation. Because of the magnitude of the task facing the interdepartmental committee, it may approach the Government for a policy decision before it makes a final report. But that is in the nature of things to come. I do not think the Senate would want me to catalogue the avenues that currently are being explored. For example, I do not think it is completely relevant in this debate to point out what the Commonwealth and the States are doing for retarded children or the methods currently being employed in the paramedical field.  Senator Davidson  referred to the problem of deafness. Simply to make my point, I remind honourable senators that persons under 21 years of age with hearing difficulties are provided with hearing aids free. The aids are also maintained without cost. 
In almost every field referred to in this debate today action is being taken. The report does not denigrate what is being done at present. It really goes further and says: 'Having taken evidence and having studied it, we believe that certain other things should be done.' I do not think I should spend the very limited time available to me by going through a catalogue of present activities. Nursing homes are referred to in the report and in this area Commonwealth assistance is being given. The Department of Social Services is active in assisting retarded children who are in institutions. I do not use the word institutions' in a discreditable way. The Commonwealth is providing capital assistance for the building of works. 

 Senator Douglas McClelland referred to the first recommendation which says, in essence, that a survey should be carried out in each State to determine the numbers of mentally and physically handicapped persons, by category of handicap. I think all honourable senators would agree that if it is possible to carry out such a survey it will be a most effective start line in any consideration of rehabilitation or health. What must be understood is the enormity of that single task. I am not saying that it should not be attempted, but I have in mind problems such as the movement of population in Australia, with pockets of high density population and sparse population and the fact that until this decade there was a great tendency for parents to hide retarded children. It is only through the wonderful work that has been done in the last 15 years by voluntary workers, by education campaigns to establish confidence in retarded children and acceptance of them, that we have been able to get across the message that retarded children should not be so treated. 
In Australia we can be proud of the fact that wonderful organisations have been created to aid retarded children. Before I became a Minister of State, in the voluntary sense I served on a committee with a group of wonderful people who were working for and caring for retarded children. I know all these folk. Even now as a Minister, in my private capacity 1 still go to visit one place at which retarded children are cared for. The work that is done by the voluntary organisations is tremendous. I was referring to a survey as a start line. It would be a most difficult achievement. With all the goodwill in the world, an interdepartmental committee must look for the most effective ways to do these things. 
Another point to be remembered about this report is that it contains 85 recommendations, set out in groups. In every group at least one recommendation is made to the States. In the first group, which relates to handicapped persons, there is a reference to what is required of State governments. In the group headed 'Disability Registers' there is a reference to State governments. The implementation of recommendations 22, 23, 24 and 33 will require tremendous cooperation from the States and, with the greatest goodwill, from the Commonwealth. 
One recommendation refers to Commonwealth and State financial agreements. With all the respect in the world, I point out that in the 19 years for which I have been a senator we have been dealing with the problem of Commonwealth, and State financial agreements. 1 am not saying this in a critical sense but simply to point up the enormity of the recommendations and the work that has been done by the Committee. The Commonwealth Department of Health has a great task in co-ordinating and bringing forward recommendations to the Government. Recommendation 36 is that the States be encouraged to establish rehabilitation units on a regional basis in conjunction with the regionalisation of public hospitals. I would not challenge that. Recommendation 33 is that the major teaching hospitals in each State establish departments of rehabilitation. Recommendation 22 is that those States which have not taken full responsibility for the provision of free and compulsory education for all handicapped children should take immediate steps to do so. Recommendation 23 is that State authorities responsible for the design and building of schools should ensure that features are incorporated in school buildings which will enable as many of the less severely physically handicapped children as possible to attend. Recommendation 24 is that there be at least one general training course in each State for special school teachers. 
Recommendation 83 is that a Division of Rehabilitation be established with the Commonwealth Department of Health and the following recommendation is that a national advisory council for the handicapped be established. Honourable senators who have preceded me in this debate have drawn attention to the very point I have been making. They have referred to the various wings of the problem, with particular emphasis on handicapped and retarded children, social services, health, education and so on. The Committee recognised this problem and suggested as a solution to it that, if possible, the co-ordination of knowledge and activities should be done through a division of rehabilitation within the Commonwealth Department of Health. 
That is not my prerogative. I think that  Senator Murphy  has the prerogative because, as the notice paper discloses, the adjourned debate on this matter stands in his name. If he sought a few moments in which to address himself to this matter before the time for consideration of it today expired, i would yield to him. He is returning to the chamber now. All I say is that, with the best good will in the world, I, as Minister for Health, and the Government will do everything to give maximum consideration to this report and will do whatever can be done to bring into being, if not all the recommendations, at least some and as many as possible in the fullness of time. 

 Senator MURPHY (New South WalesLeader of the Opposition)' - We are all grateful to the Senate Standing Committee on Health and Welfare for the admirable report which it has presented to the Senate on a subject of great importance to the whole community and of special importance to persons who are physically or mentally handicapped and those associated with them. I thank the Leader of the Government, in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  for his expression that the Government will do everything that it can to see, in effect, to the implementation of the report. That expression was given in the broad sense and we understand that it does not commit the Government to the various aspects of the recommendations. But, in general, the Government will pursue the report and see what can be done to implement it in general. I will not say any more about the report because it speaks for itself and others have spoken today on it. But I remind the Senate that in some ways this is an historic occasion. This was the first report-- 
 With the indulgence of the Chair and the leave of the Senate, he may continue. 
(5.36) - by leave - The following statement was made by the Prime Minister,  (Mr McMahon)  in another place about an hour ago. Honourable senators will understand that where I use the first person singular pronoun it refers to the Prime Minister. 
In this House on 9th December 1971, 1 announced measures for additional assistance to both government and independent schools to help them in areas of particular and immediate concern. Honourable members will recall that those proposals, for which legislation has since been enacted, involved unmatched capital grants totalling $20m for government schools in the States over the 18 months to June 1973, together with an increase in the rates of per capita Commonwealth grants towards the running costs of independent schools in the States estimated to cost $9.7m in 1972. There was also an increase in the per capita grants to independent schools in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. 
The Government has now decided on longer term measures for direct assistance to both government and independent schools throughout Australia. Our decision has been taken against the background of the direct and indirect contribution which the Commonwealth is already making to education in schools. I remind honourable members that under the general financial assistance arrangements with the States, the Commonwealth is meeting approximately half of the recurrent expenditure on government schools. In almost every year for a number of years, the Commonwealth has made a substantial contribution by way of special loans to support the overall works and housing programmes of the States from which the States finance capital construction in schools. State schools have also had the benefit of unmatched Commonwealth capital grants for science laboratories and libraries in secondary schools. 
The independent schools in the States have received capital grants from the Commonwealth for science laboratories and libraries in secondary schools. Since 1970 the Commonwealth has been making per capita grants towards the running costs of both primary and secondary independent schools and, under the measures announced last December, those per capita grants were increased to their present rates of $50 per head in primary schools and $68 per head in secondary schools. 
Notwithstanding the assistance already being given to the States, we are convinced of  the  need  for  the States, on a longer term basis, to devote more resources to the building of new schools and the replacement of outmoded and crowded accommodation than they are likely to be able to make available from their general purpose funds. Therefore, as a measure of assistance which will facilitate forward planning, we have decided to offer unmatched capital grants over a 5-year period for government primary and secondary schools. These grants will commence in July 1973 and carry on when the present $20m programme has been completed. Over the 5 years to June 1978 the Commonwealth will provide $167m, and the annual rate will be $31m in the first 2 years rising to $3 5m in the 3 later years of the programme. 
This increase in the annual rate from 1975-76 is in recognition of the fact that the grants specifically for science laboratories will cease in June 1975. It is part of the Commonwealth's intention that outstanding demands for science laboratories for government schools be met thereafter from within this new programme I have just announced. These unmatched capital grants will be divided among the States on the basis of school enrolments. 
Over the 5-year period, each State will receive the following: 

<graphic href="052232197205112_50_0.jpg"></graphic>

As these grants are intended to increase expenditure on school buildings, we wish to have an understanding with each State that it will maintain the present share of total Joan funds being devoted to schools construction. We also wish 70 per cent of the funds to be used for additional facilities rather than replacement facilities. However, beyond these conditions, each State will be free to develop its own programme, including the provision of science laboratories and libraries in secondary schools. It is the Commonwealth's objective in making these general capital grants to permit flexibility, so that each State can select the priority areas for school construction as it sees them. 
I turn now to the position of the independent schools about which the Government has stated its policy position clearly and precisely. Our policy is that, relying on their own efforts and with assistance from governments, the independent schools should be able to continue to provide places at a reasonable standard for that proportion of school population which in the past has sought education in nongovernment schools. It has become increasingly apparent that to give full effect to this policy the independent schools need assurances for the future, including assistance of a capital nature as well as continuing help with running costs on a basis that will take positive account of cost increases. 
While the per capita grants towards running costs from both the Commonwealth and the States have been a major factor in keeping existing independent schools in operation, there are many newlydeveloping residential areas where parents are not able to exercise the choice between government and independent schools which is available to them elsewhere. There are also many independent schools which badly need to extend their classroom accommodation and other basic facilities or to replace temporary and outmoded buildings. 
To assist in meeting this need for capital facilities, the Government has decided to make available a total of $48m over the 5 years commencing July 1973 in capital grants for the construction of classrooms and associated facilities in independent schools. For the first 2 years, these grants will be at an annual rate of $9m rising to $ 10m in the final 3 years. As with the government schools, the increase in the latter years is in recognition of the fact that the special funds for science laboratories will run out in June 1975. 
Let me interpose at this point to explain that although the funds specifically for science laboratories in both government and independent schools will cease in 1975, the special programme for libraries for both government and independent schools for which funds have been approved to December 1974 will continue as an addition to this new general purpose programme because of the large outstanding requirement for libraries in both government and independent schools. 
Returning to the capital grants for independent schools, these will be distributed among the States in proportion to enrolments in independent schools on the following basis over the 5 year period: 

<graphic href="052232197205112_51_2.jpg"></graphic>

As for the government schools, it will be a condition of the grants that at least 70 per cent of the funds will be used for additional facilities rather than for replacement facilities. For the independent schools, the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  will approve the individual projects and authorise the amount of assistance to each of them. It is the Government's intention that he have advice from a committee of experts on the facilities to be provided in particular schools together with advice from committees in the States on priorities among projects in individual independent schools. 
This new measure of Commonwealth capital grants for both .government and independent schools will be the subject of legislation for specific purpose payments of a capital nature to the States. I am inviting the Premiers to accept the grants for their own schools and to co-operate in making payments, as approved by the Commonwealth, for the independent schools. 
I come now to the important question of running costs in independent schools. The Commonwealth first entered this field in 1970 to help arrest a financial crisis which had developed for many independent schools. Following a review of the situation with which independent schools would be faced in 1972, we took action at the end of 1971 to increase the rates of our pe : capita grants. In our further consideration of the position of the independent schools, we have been impressed with the fact that they have no guarantees for the future. Although faced with rapidly increasing costs, they have had to rely on decisions taken by Commonwealth and State Governments independently and usually at different times in the spring ot one year about the funds to be available to those schools a few months later when the next school year commences. 
Over the last 2 years, running costs in government schools have risen by over #80 per pupil at the primary level and by over $130 per pupil at the secondary level. Many independent schools have had to face even larger increases because of the higher rate of salary increases in their schools. Grants from Governments, although they have been substantially increased, have not kept pace with these increases in costs. 
We believe the difficulties facing 'he independent schools can be resolved if the Commonwealth and the States join in assuring the independent schools that they will receive grants towards running costs on a continuing basis. These grants should be expressed in per capita terms and be set at a nominated percentage of the assessed cost of educating a child in government schools. After careful consideration of the level of support which would be appropriate in all the circumstances, the Government has decided to recommend to each State that it join with the Commonwealth in sharing equally the cost of making per capita grants to independent schools at a rate equivalent to 40 per cent of the assessed Australia-wide cost of educating a child in the government primary and secondary schools. We propose that this arrangement should operate for a period of 5 years from the beginning of 1973 and that the combined Commonwealth and State per capita rates be assessed and announced in the latter part of each calendar year for application from the beginning of the following calendar year. 
I have written to the Premiers inviting them to join with the Commonwealth in a joint operation along these lines. I emphasise that the Commonwealth intends to meet its share of the proposed assistance to independent schools irrespective of the decision of the States. We hope that all States will join with the Commonwealth in this new measure because we and they share the responsibility to assist the independent schools. However, the Commonwealth will contribute its full half share from the outset even if a particular State feels obliged to move to its half share of assistance over a period of perhaps 2 or 3 years. 
The assessment of the actual rates of assistance will require consultation with the States to determine an appropriate figure for the Australia-wide average of the per capita cost of running government schools. However, as an approximation we would expect that for 1973. the present Australian average of the combined Commonwealth and State per capita grants of around $92 per primary pupil and $119 per secondary pupil would increase to about $125 per primary pupil and $210 per secondary pupil. Putting it another way, the present rates of Commonwealth and State assistance are equivalent to about 29 per cent of the cost of educating a child in a government primary school and 23 per cent for a government secondary school compared with the 40 per cent for both primary and secondary schools the Government now proposes. 
The following table illustrates the approximate cost to the Commonwealth and to the States of these increased per capita grants to independent schools in the full year 1973. I reiterate that these figures are subject to detailed assessment. 
I am suggesting to the Premiers that my colleague, the Minister for Education and Science, the Honourable Malcolm Fraser, discuss the detailed application of these proposals for both government and independent schools with his colleagues in the States. One particular element in these discussions will be the determination of the conditions to be attached to the proposed combined per capita grants to independent schools. Discussions will also be required with the independent school authorities. lt is the Government's intention to introduce legislation during the Budget session to authorise special purpose grants to the States for these new' programmes. 
These measures represent a new era in Commonwealth aid to all Australian schools. On the one hand we will now be providing general capital grants for the whole fabric of school buildings, both primary and secondary, and on the other hand, we will also be prepared to join with the States in ensuring that independent schools have a guaranteed level of support towards their running costs. We have been impressed by the arguments advanced by the States for their need to have, available general capital funds for their schools so that they might develop programmes tailored to their own individual needs. We have also accepted their argument that they should have a programme extending over a sufficient forward period to enable proper planning and systematic commitment of resources. Likewise we have accepted the arguments put forward by the independent schools about the necessity for assurances of continuing support in the face of cost increases so that they, too, could face the future with confidence in their ability to survive and to expand in step with the growth of the nation. 
The Government is satisfied that the new measures I have outlined will represent a milestone in improving the education of all Australian children. 
I move: 
The the Senate take note of the Statement. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator  O'Byrne) adjourned. 
Sitting suspended from 5.52 to 8 p.m. 
General Business Taking Precedence of Government Business at 8 p.m. 
(8.5) - This proposed reference to the Standing Committee on Health and Welfare was moved on 2nd November 1970. [n this year of grace, 1972, we are a long way from that date. The motion moved  by  Senator Murphy  was as follows: 
That there be referred to the Standing Committee on Health and Welfare the following matters - The incidence, distribution and causes of primary and secondary poverty in Australia and the adequacy of existing Commonwealth and State social welfare legislation. 
Today the Senate dealt with a report from the Standing Committee on Health and Welfare. I can be corrected if I am wrong, but I suggest that that report took a considerable amount of time to come forward. 

I am told that it took 8 months. Albeit, it was a first class report. We have before us now a proposed reference to the same Committee. I want to canvass the role of these various committees and to repeat what I have said in the Senate before. The concept of creating these committees was born during the life of this Parliament. It has been demonstrated that they have a role to play. The greatest risk we run with these special committees is if we give them references on which it will be beyond their capacity to bring forward reports in a reasonable time. We all know what happened in relation to another one of these committees. The Senate Select Committee on Off-shore Petroleum Resources took more than 3 years to bring down its report. 

There is no  essential difference between select committees and standing committees in their procedures and the way they deal with matters. I am not talking about the matter of substance at the moment. I am talking about the role of the Senate and the capacity of the Senate in relation to these committees to do a worth while job and to do it in a period of time which makes it valuable in terms of the purposes that the committee set out to achieve. I would say that this proposed reference in its own right, without arguing it, is one which by the very nature of its wording, as it was moved in November 1970 would require a tremendous amount of time from the honourable senators on that committee. This year there is the possibility that other things will happen. 
Not necessarily a change, but there will be an abortive attempt made by some to achieve change. Be that as it may, the situation is that the time available to the honourable senators to work on these committees may be more restricted this year than perhaps would be the case in the next 3 years. I put it to the Senate that to refer another matter to the Standing Committee on Health and Welfare is striking a blow at - perhaps destroying - the very work that these various committees do. That is only part of the story. 
I now deal with the references that are being considered already by the Standing Committee on Health and Welfare. The Committee is currently conducting an inquiry into all aspects of repatriation. As the Leader of the Government in the Senate, I have sought information from my representatives on the Committee in particular. I am assured that, having regard to the circumstances pertaining this year, 'he problems existing, apart from the functions Which the Committee has to perform, and the fact that the Budget session will commence in August, it is highly improbable that a report on the reference in relation to repatriation will be presented to the Senate this year. It should also be borne in mind that, if what may happen does happen, the Budget session will not necessarily last as long as some other Budget sessions might last. It is highly probable that the report on the reference in relation to repatriation which the Standing Committee on 
Health and Welfare has before it already and which its members are working on may not be presented to the Senate before it adjourns at the end of the Budget session. 
The Committee also has another reference. It has a reference in relation to the introduction of a national superannuation scheme. Those who have read the history of politics in Australia since Federation and certainly in the post World War I years know that this question of national superannuation is not one that is likely to be resolved very easily. The implications of a national superannuation scheme have been under discussion in Australia for at least 25 years. 
It may be longer than that.  Senator Murphy  might say that this is a very good reason why the matter should be referred to this Committee. The fact is that I am talking about a time slot. I am sure that no honourable senator would suggest that the Committee would be able to deal with the repatriation reference this year. Do honourable senators think that the Senate will get a report in 1973 from the Standing Committee on the introduction of a national superannuation scheme? I am sure that I will not be here to see that report presented because the magnitude of the issue is such that it will make the performance of the Senate Select Committee on Off-shore Petroleum Resources pale into insignificance. 

Let me make my case. If the motion were carried we would be giving another reference to the Committee, which already is overburdened with references. The Committee does a magnificent and painstaking job, and it could easily take the next 3 or possibly 4 years to complete the references that it already has. Then we would be giving it another reference if the motion were carried. I have made no mention of certain petitions which have been referred to that Committee. That is a very delicate subject at the moment. 

Some are for information only, as I understand it. If we give the Committee this additional reference we will be putting upon it a burden which is completely unfair and unreal and which, because of the nature of the reference, will help to destroy the concept of the committee system. 
I make only one other reference. In the other place as recently as yesterday the matter of an investigation into poverty was raised. The Opposition moved a motion in the other place. It did not succeed. In the other place the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  said that he has put to the Government the view that there should be a governmental investigation into the matter. What he said can be read in the Press, can be heard on the radio and can be seen on television. He has the burden and carriage of matters associated with social service benefits and similar matters. He said it quite openly, at question time, in the presence of the Government. The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  was in the chamber at the time. The Minister for Social Services has made it clear that in his view at a governmental level there should be an inquiry into this broad matter. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThat is as he put it. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONDo not try to get conditions before we get to the matter of substance. There can be nobody better equipped to organise an investigation, if it were thought necessary, than the Government. I put to the Senate that the investigation should be at that level. If an inquiry were justified, that would be a far more logical way of inquiring into the matter than by referring it to the Standing Committee which has not the capacity, in terms of time and in terms of work load to deal with the issues that should be considered. I shall not go into the matter of substance at this time. I believe that the Government has responsibility to govern. It has to make decisions in relation to these matters. If it believes that there is a need for certain investigations to be made, those investigations should be made at the government level. To refer this matter to the Committee would impose on it an impossible task. The Committee would not be able to inquire into the matter for years. For those reasons the Government resists the motion moved by  Senator Murphy. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
Although no Commonwealth Department or instrumentality is conducting research into multiple sclerosis, the Commonwealth is, through the National Health and Medical Research Council supporting two major research projects related to multiple sclerosis. These projects are in the fields of virology and immunology, which are the fields of research currently thought most likely to provide an indication of the cause of multiple sclerous. The projects are - 
Research into reovirus infection: Department of Microbiology, University of Western Australia. The aim of this project is to determine how the body reacts to infection by reoviruses and, particularly, to study the relationship between reovirus infection and certain chronic diseases including multiple sclerosis. 
The N.H. &amp; M.R.C. grant for this work has been continuous since 1963 and, for 1972, the support of this unit is $32,965. 
Research into auto-immune disease: Walter and Eliza Hall Institute of Medical Research, Melbourne. 
This Institute has been receiving a N.H. A M.R.C. grant for many years. An important part of its research is the study of auto-immune disease and the possible role of auto-immunity in the causation of certain diseases including multiple sclerosis. 
The total N.H. &amp; M.R.C. support for the Institute for 1972 is $354,000. 
As both these research projects are concerned with basic research, it is impossible to isolate the Amount spent by the Commonwealth on research into multiple sclerosis specifically. 
I am aware that there are a large number of multiple sclerosis sufferers in Australia and that in Sydney, the Australian Multiple Sclerosis Society has a specialised treatment unit with limited facilities. In Melbourne, there is also a  small  nursing and domiciliary unit for patients with multiple sclerosis. In addition, many multiple sclerosis patients receive treatment in general rehabilitation units attached to public hospitals throughout Australia. 
Yes 
I am not aware that the Multiple Sclerosis Society has made application for such a grant. If any application is made by the Society, it will be given appropriate consideration. 

The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
Prior to the reconstruction of the hospital benefits tables in Queensland on 1st November 1971, most hospital benefits organisations provided an ancillary benefit for operating theatre fees, but did not observe a common policy in respect of out-patients. Although contributions did not generally have an entitlement to such benefits, they were paid in some cases on an ex gratia basis, at the discretion of the organisation's management committee. 
The Queensland Council of National Health Benefits Organisations considered this matter on 7th March 1972, and recommended that hospital benefits organisations in Queensland introduce an ancillary benefit of $10 to be paid where an outpatient has been charged by an approved hospital for the use of an operating theatre. I understand that Queensland organisations are currently considering this recommendation. 
The Minister for Defence has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The existing command structure of the Australian Armed Forces has developed out of experience to meet Australian requirements. It worked successfully in Vietnam and a joint force Commander has now been appointed for Papua New Guinea. It is not however a fixed or static structure. The Government is conscious that adjustments may be required from time to time and these would be made whenever necessary. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
I am informed that information concerning individual companies is available from the offices of the .Registrar of Companies or the Corporate Affairs Commission, as the case may be, in the Slate or Territory in which the company is incorporated. 
No. 
(4.7) -  Mr Deputy President,  for the information of honourable senators I lay on the table the report of the inquiry into the fees to be adopted for general practitioner medical services in New South Wales - items 1 and 4 - for the purpose of the National Health Act. I ask for leave to make a statement relating thereto. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
I should indicate, first, that an arrangement has been made for copies of the report to be circulated to honourable senators this afternoon. On 8th March 1972 I announced the establishment of an inquiry into the fees to be adopted for general practitioner medical services in New South Wales - items 1 and 4 - for the purpose of the National Health Act. The inquiry was carried out at the request of the Government by  Mr Justice  Mason who took over from  Mr Justice  Kerr on his appointment as Chief Justice of New South Wales. The inquiry was initiated by the Government because a situation had developed in New South Wales in which a large percentage of patients was not receiving the protection from the medical benefits scheme for general practitioner services that the Government had set out to achieve for them. 
The Government has established the medical benefits scheme on the basis that the patient's share of a general practitioner's account for a surgery consultation is 80c where the doctor charges the common fee; that the patient's share of an account for a home visit is $1.20 where the doctor charges the common fee; and that the patient's share of a doctor's account for any medical service is no more than $5, subject in the same way to the common fee being observed. The Government's objective is that the scheme be made as effective as possible by the maintenance of a high level of observance of most common fees by the medical profession. This objective has, generally speaking, been achieved throughout Australia except for general practitioner surgery consultations and for home visits in New South Wales. 
In the second half of 1971 a dispute developed in the medical profession in New South Wales as to what were the common fees for a general practitioners surgery consultation and home visit. The Federal Council of the Australian Medical Association had agreed with the Government in April 1971 that the common fees for these services from 1st July 1971 would be $3. SO and S5.05 respectively. Sections of the profession claimed that these fees were wrongly based and higher fees should have been adopted. Sixteen out of 27 local associations of doctors in New 
South Wales recommended to their members fees higher than those accepted by the Government. A large percentage of doctors followed the recommendations of their local associations and for medical benefit claims processed during the quarter ended 30th September 1971, only 53 per cent of general practitioner surgery consultations and 35 per cent of home visits in New South Wales were charged at the common fee or less. Thus, almost half of the surgery consultations and two-thirds of home visits in New South Wales were involving patients in paying more than the patient share intended by the Government. 
The Government was extremely concerned that these patients were not receiving the full measure of protection desired by the Government and was determined to take proper steps within its powers to restore in New South Wales the effective protection which a majority of patients in that State had received when the common fee scheme was first brought in and which, generally speaking, patients in other States were continuing to receive. The Government decided that, in this situation, a judicial inquiry should be held to determine what were fair and reasonable fees for general practitioner surgery consultations and home visits in New South Wales.  Mr Justice  Mason has now determined that the following fees were fair and reasonable as the fees to be adopted for the purpose of the medical benefits scheme for the period 1st July 1971 to 30th June 1973: 
Item 1 - General practitioner surgery consultations - S3. 90; an increase of 10c on the present $3.80. 
Item 4 - General practitioner home visits - $5.45. an increase of 40c on the present $5.05. 

 Mr Justice Mason has, however, noted that the result of his determination would be that doctors in New South Wales who have charged the most common fee have, since 1st July 1971, in effect lost income equivalent to 10c for each surgery consultation and 40c for each home visit during almost half of the 2-year period for which the fees should apply. He has observed that, if it should be thought that some step should be taken so that doctors will receive the income which they would have received had the fee determined by him prevailed throughout the period of 2 years, the amount he has determined for item 1 could be increased by an additional 10c for the balance of the period, bringing it up to a total of $4. He has added that item 4 does not seem to him to necesarily stand in the same position as it is a service less frequently occurring and has, in relation to item 1, increased at a greater rate since 1968. 

 Mr Justice Mason has emphasised that, if it should be decided to add a further 10c to the most common fee for item 1, thereby bringing it up to $4 for the balance of the 2-year period ending on 30th June 1973, subsequent calculations of the most common fee for the next 2-year period, that is, 1st July 1973 to 30th June 1975, should proceed as if the amount determined for the entire current 2-year period ending on 30th June 1973 had been $3.90. The Government has given careful consideration to the determinations made by  Mr Justice  Mason and has decided that the following most common fees will apply in New South Wales for the period 1st July 1972 to 30th June 1973- 
The Acting Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Recent Press reports indicate that the Great Universal Stores Limited of the United Kingdom and Canada has made a takeover offer for Patersons (Australia) Limited. 
On the Government's instructions, the Treasury has in hand the preparation of an in-depth study of overseas investment in Australia. The purpose of the study is to provide the basis for an assessment of the role of overseas investment in the Australian economy, and for a full and objective examination of both benefits and costs. As the Prime Minister pointed out in the House on 22nd February, when completed the study will be a proper vehicle by which the Parliament can debate the issue, including the matters raised in points (a), (b) and (c) of this question, and come to sensible conclusions. 
 The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
The information requested by  Senator Wriedt  is set out below. The amounts shown are the total collections paid into Commonwealth SubTreasuries in each State, the Territories and overseas, less all refunds of tax and duty (including refunds of pay-roll tax export rebates), in each of the financial years 1965-66 to 1970-71. However, the various amounts for each State do not necessarily indicate accurately the tax or duty derived from, or payable in, that State. 
The Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
I have not seen the recent report by a group of accountants and auditors to which the honourable senator refers and am not, therefore, in a position to express an opinion as to the merits of statements in the report. Further consideration will be given, in the context of preparing the 1972-73 Budget, to the question of depreciation allowances for income-producing buildings. 
(10.4)  -I  wish to respond briefly to what has been said. This debate has brought out some points which have some validity, particularly in relation to second reading speeches and some other matters. I seek leave to withdraw the motion. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - Order! Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
Motion - by leave - withdrawn. 
The Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Government has considered on several occasions proposals to exempt from income tax interest paid on deposits with building societies and savings banks. Such interest is unequivocably assessable income in the hands of the recipients and the Government has not seen cause to grant it exempt status, whether subject or not to the kind of limitation suggested by the honourable senator. This is the more so as exemption would place building societies and savings banks in an advantageous position for attracting funds relative to other avenues for the investment of funds. 
The Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 1 (a) The number of passengers carried by Ansett Airlines of Australia and TAA in Australia in each year since 1966 were: 
The Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Reserve Bank has advised that the following table shows allocations of overseas exchange which have been authorised for purchases and rentals of television programme material since television commenced operating. The Bank's records do not show separate figures for purchases and rentals. 
The Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Pursuant to section 76a of the National Health Act 1953-1971,I present the First Annual Report by the DirectorGeneral of Health on the operations of the registered medical benefits organisations and the registered hospital benefits organisations for the year ended 30th June 1971. 
(8.0) - Notice of motion No. 1, which stands in my name, states: 
That the Senate agrees in principle that Standing Order 64 relating to Urgency Motions should provide that the whole discussion on the subjectshould not exceed 2 hours. 
It is interesting to reveal that I put the motion down on 2nd September 1970. That is a long time ago in anyone's book. The fact is that - this is rather a digression from the matter of substance, but I think it is relevant to bring out the point - new procedures have been introduced into the Senate by which, for instance, on Thursday mornings motions on the business paper pertaining to decisions or reports that have been put down by Senate committees, are dealt with. The usual form is that a report is introduced, the motion is proposed that the Senate should take note of it, and the debate is adjourned. Therefore, in one sense we are making some impact on the Business Paper in respect of items under the headings 'Orders of the Day' and 'General Business'. Equally during this sitting, pursuant to a promise which I gave to the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  and by common consent, we have set about removing a whole host of items which have been on the notice paper under the 2 headings that I have just mentioned. This has cleared up to a significant extent a good deal of the business on the notice paper. So, in the fullness of time, the first 2 motions under General Business tonight, which are in my name, have come up for determination. 
I think that it is appropriate also for me to say that I have always regarded myself, as Leader of the Government in the Senate, as one who has taken some initiative. If I may use the term in the totality of the family circle of the Senate, in some sense I have sometimes been the fall guy in respect of matters that I put forward. I recognise that whatever I do is done in my desire to facilitate the handling of the work and management of the Senate to the ultimate good of the Senate. Sometimes the Senate in its judgment says that I am not on the right target. When the Senate makes its determination, I accept that decision as the will of the Senate. I think that everybody recognises that I am expressing a point of view and that I am really putting up something on the notice paper for us to look at. 
For instance, last week I gave notice of a motion that I proposed to move on Tuesday of this week in relation to sitting hours for the remainder of the autumn session. The Senate expressed its view on Tuesday last that what I had put down was premature. I was not here on that occasion; I was called away urgently. But I accepted that decision as the view of the Senate; it does not distress me. I had the obligation to put the matter up for consideration working on the basis that if nobody takes the initiative on these matters at some time our procedures must be retarded. 
The motion under discussion relates to standing order 64 which is fairly long. I do not think that I should read all of it. I will paraphrase it by indicating that this standing order which relates to urgency motions says, in effect, that a certain course must be followed in relation to proposing a matter for discussion and moving an urgency motion. When the matter is raised, it must be supported by 4 honourable senators rising in their places. The time set aside for debate on an urgency motion is 3 hours. 
The pattern of the Senate has changed significantly during the life of this Parliament. It has changed significantly in terms of the volume of work that we do as the second chamber, stemming from the other place. It has changed in pattern also in relation to our own initiatives in the Senate. These initiatives have seen the creation of some 7 special Standing Committees to which we have been referring matters for inquiry and report. Indeed, notice of motion No. 3 under general business for discussion tonight, standing in the name of  Senator Devitt,  is a motion for the appointment of a joint select committee. So, in addition to our committee work, motions are proposed in relation to the appointment of joint committees. I think that any honourable senator would recognise the demands that are being put upon our time, our efforts and our enthusiasm in order to perform the work that we, as a Senate, are required to do. It is obvious that, unless a significant and dramatic change occurs in relation to the days and times of sitting, we will be under tremendous pressure. So it is that I have proposed this motion. 
I do not wish to speak at any great length on my motion because I think that we are all fairly well seized of the implications of it. The present programme followed by the Senate each week is along these lines: When the Senate meets on Tuesday, following petitions and notices of motion, question time is called on. The length of question time is not limited here as it is in the other place to three-quarters of an hour. Sometimes question time in the Senate runs for an hour and a quarter. With all the best will in the world and the co-operation that honourable senators give to the Chair, usually between one hour and one and a quarter hours are devoted to question time. Also, the Senate does not place the time limits on the length of speeches at the second reading stage consideration of a Bill that are imposed in the other place. If an honourable senator feels that he has a case to present he may speak for one hour and then obtain an extension of half an hour. In all, he can speak for one and a half hours. 
Additionally, the work of the various committees is coming forward to the Senate by way of reports. These reports are the subject of debate. A new system has been introduced to enable consideration of these reports on a Thursday. Today was a classic example of what now happens. Question time lasted for one hour. Then the consideration of reports from Senate committees was brought on. Two hours was available today for this purpose and the Senate has agreed that such discussions should conclude 3 hours after the meeting time of the Senate. This means that it is not until 3.15 in the afternoon that the Senate turns to a consideration of Government business. The Senate has only the time between 3.15 and 5.45 to consider Government business because after the evening suspension of the sitting general business, which is not of necessity Government business, is called on. So, if honourable senators accept the concept that one of the objectives of the role of the Senate - the prime purpose of the Senate - is  to deal with Government Bills and to pass judgment on the Bills that come to the Senate from the other place, on a Thursday approximately  2i  hours are available for consideration of Government business. 
The fact is that, whilst a couple of hours are available to discuss Government business on a Thursday, the Senate has reached a point in its history when it is confronted with the need for a little selfdiscipline in the management of its affairs otherwise it will face a situation in which the dates and times of sitting should be extended. I and others, particularly the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy),  believe there is a strong feeling among senators that we should not sit later than the normal times for adjournment, which are 10.30 p.m. on Tuesdays and Thursdays and 11 p.m. on Wednesdays, unless there is absolute justification existing for doing so. So I have come to the view - this is not a party view but, as I see it, a view that I am putting forward as a guinea pig, if you like - that we should be looking to some of the problems that we have in attempting to meet the situation. 
Bearing in mind what I have said about Thursdays, I turn now to Wednesdays. The Senate does not meet on Wednesdays until 3 o'clock. An hour is set aside for question time, which takes us to 4 o'clock. Then if we have an urgency motion to discuss, which takes up another 3 hours, we are again in the situation where it is half way through Wednesday night before we get to Government Business. The term 'Government Business' does not mean that it is exclusive to the Government. 'Government Business' means that Party leaders, back benchers and independent senators all have to face up to the responsibility of dealing with Bills introduced as Government Business. At the present time we have on the business paper the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill in relation to which I know that the Opposition has some very keen debaters. The discussion on that Bill may go on for some days. Certain honourable senators are now conducting a private conversation. I might not be very interesting to listen to but I expect to have a little bit of quiet, otherwise I might as well sit down. It is hopeless for me to try to make a case if every honourable senator is making his own case privately. 

The place to discuss it while somebody is on his feet, is out in the corridor. I am asking honourable senators to put their minds seriously to matters associated with the management of this place, our own place. There are no politics in this. If &lt;ve are to deal with the messages that come to us - after all, that is our prime purpose as the second chamber, the House of review - there will not be sufficient time to do so in the hours that we normally tit, bearing in mind that on Wednesdays we discuss urgency motions, bearing in mind that on Thursday mornings 3 hours are set aside to discuss committee reports, and bearing in mind that on Thursday nights General Business takes precedence. So I am saying that we could with ' reason reduce the debating time on urgency motions by one hour. The more speakers there are in an urgency debate, provided they are brief, the greater the advantage. That advantage can be obtained even though the debating time is reduced as my motion proposes. 
Having said that, I will not press my case any further. I believe that there is a case which we all must consider in an individual way, not in a party way, because it is not a party issue. We could have an urgency motion every day, and we have to decide whether 2 hours is not a reasonable time. I believe that it is. When we are dealing with a complex Bill which has 200 clauses, if you like, or even a small number of clauses, the debate might go on, but in relation to an urgency motion I have the feeling that the debating time could be reduced by one hour. This would be helpful in the end, not only to me as Leader of the Government but to us all, because we all have a responsibility. Because a Government Bill is before the chamber, that does not absolve anybody sitting on the cross benches, behind me, or anywhere else. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONNo, it is not a government BiH. I am not suggesting that the honourable senators who sit behind me, those who sit behind 

 Senator Murphy or those who sit behind SenatorGair will treat this as a government issue or as a non-government issue. This is a matter of free personal expression. Therefore, without wanting to labour the point, I suggest that my motion that we should reduce the time for debating urgency motions to 2 hours is valid. 
(9.33) - I wish to deal now with notice of motion No. 2 standing in my name. Reference was made during the earlier debate to a motion being put forward by me in my capacity as Leader of the Government in the Senate. I am not putting this motion, nor did I put the earlier motion, as Leader of the Government in the Senate. I will move it in my name as a member of the Senate. I will be much more brief in my comments on this motion because I think that all honourable senators are very much alive to the proposition. 
The Senate has always had what we chose to call an understanding or an arrangement that, on days when the proceedings of the Senate are being broadcast, the length of speeches will be restricted to 30 minutes with the exception of debates for which other speaking times are specified. Whilst honourable senators are not bound in any way by any standing order to this time limit and whilst, in the spirit of things, in a peroration honourable senators from all sides may run over the 30 minutes agreed time limit to make a point, this agreement has always worked effectively in the 19 years that I have been a member of the Senate. We have never had any difficulty with respect to this arrangement on broadcast days. I do not think that our debates on broadcast days have lost any of their lustre. In fact, on most occasions, speeches delivered on broadcast days are perhaps more pertinent, more prepared and more directed to the sheer substance of the matters being debated than are speeches on other days when a longer time is available to speak. In any event, when considering a Bill in Committee the time allowed is 15 minutes although true it is an honourable senator can speak again in the debate at that stage. 
The motion that I will move seeks the agreement of the Senate in principle to changes as are necessary in the relevant standing orders to restrict speaking times in any debate to 30 minutes, with the time allowed for right of reply to be limited to 15 minutes. I think that the adoption of this motion would be to our advantage. The same reasons that I canvassed when speaking to my previous motion may be advanced support this proposal. I do not believe that I need to canvass the same arguments again. I think that this move would be effective and would be in the interests of the role and responsibility that we have as senators. With 'those brief remarks, I move: 
That the Senate agrees in principle to such changes as are necessary to the relevant Standing Orders to provide that no  Senator shall  speak for more than thirty minutes in any debate in the Senate, provided that, where a right of reply is allowed in any debate in the Senate, a  Senator speaking  in reply shall speak for not more than fifteen minutes. 
I wish to inform the Senate that the Treasurer,  Mr Snedden,  left Australia on Saturday, 20th May, to attend a meeting of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development in Paris. He is expected to return to Australia on 29th May. During his absence the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  will act as Treasurer. 

The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The Commonwealth has decided to introduce legislation in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory requiring warning labels on cigarette packages. 

The Acting Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Commonwealth Statistician has advised that information on capital expenditure is not available for individual States. 
The Acting Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Treasurer announced on 10th April 1972 that the Government intended to proceed with a public issue of yen-denominated bonds on the Tokyo market, subject to negotiation of acceptable terms and conditions and other arrangements for the issue. The borrowing is expected to be for an amount of 10 billion yen (about $A27m). The Treasurer's Press Statement, a copy of which has been forwarded to the honourable senator, explained that the proposed borrowing would serve Australia's national interests in such important ways as establishing for Australia a position in a new capital market which will constitute an alternative to existing markets and which seems destined to grow substantially in the years ahead, and making a major contribution to the development of closer financial links generally with Japan. 
I move: 
That intervening Government Business be postponed until after consideration of Government Business Order of the Day No. 9. 
This is a short matter relating to the hours of sitting, which we believe should be dealt with first. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
by leave - On 12th April 1972 I said in a statement to the Senate that the Government had decided to institute a full-scale public inquiry into the overall operation of the taxation system. A high level committee of inquiry will be appointed to conduct the inquiry. In my statement of 12th April I said that the inquiry would have broad terms of reference and it would be expected to hear evidence on and conduct studies and investigations into the overall operation of the taxation system. The inquiry would, I said, permit a thorough public examination of the taxation system and put the Government in a position to have an overall look at tax policy. 
In conformity with those aims the Government has drawn up the following terms of reference for the inquiry: 
The functions of the committee of inquiry are: 
To examine and inquire into the structure and operation of the present Commonwealth taxation system; 
to formulate proposals for improving the Commonwealth taxation system, either by way of making changes in the present system, abolishing any existing form of taxation or introducing new forms of taxation; and 
to report to the Treasurer of the Commonwealth accordingly. 
The committee of inquiry, shall, in carrying out its functions, do so in the light of the need to ensure a flow of revenue sufficient to meet the revenue requirements of the Commonwealth and have regard to: 
The effects of the present Commonwealth taxation system, and of any proposals formulated by the committee, upon the social economic and business organisation of the community and upon the economic and efficient use of the resources of Australia; and 
the desirability of the Commonwealth taxation system being such that, so far as is practicable, there is a fair distribution of the burden of taxation, and revenue is raised by means that are not unduly complex and do not involve the public or the administration in undue difficulty, inconvenience or expense. 
For the purposes of these terms of reference, the present Commonwealth taxation system shall be taken to be the system under which the Commonwealth raises revenue by means of the follow, ing forms of taxation: Income tax, sales tax, estate duty, gift duty, duties of excise imposed for the purpose of raising general revenue, and duties of customs that correspond with duties of excise so imposed. 
Consideration is being given to the membership of the committee of inquiry. A further announcement will be made when the members have been appointed. 
(4.13) - In my absence last week, this motion was stood over by consent because there was a feeling in the Senate at that time that there was not enough on the business paper to justify varying the sitting times. As I said in the Senate last week and again today I, as Leader of the Government in the Senate, am responsible for suggesting these things and I have to live with the fact that sometimes the Senate, in its wisdom, does not agree with what I propose. Honourable senators expect me to put a view so that it can be discussed. I put forward in good faith the view expressed in this motion. It calls for the Senate to sit at 2 p.m. on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday unless otherwise ordered. The suggestion is that on Tuesday we sit at 2 p.m. until 6 p.m. instead of 5.45, and then from 8 p.m. to 10.30 p.m., and on Wednesday from 2 p.m. until 6 p.m., instead of 5.45, and then from 8 p.m. until 11 p.m. There is not much difference on those 2 days. On Thursday it is proposed that we start at 10 a.m. instead of 11 a.m., sit until 1 p.m. instead of 12.45 p.m.; that we resume at 2.15 p.m. and sit until 6 p.m., and that we then sit from 8 p.m. until 10.30 p.m. 
I do not propose to speak at length to this motion, lt will be seen immediately by all honourable senators that the variation proposed in sitting times does not refer to sitting late at night. We deal with that situation on an ad hoc basis when the occasion arises. We will gain some hours by starting virtually an hour earlier each day and saving a little time with meal breaks. Instead of suspending the sittings at 5.45 p.m. we will sit until 6 p.m., and we will rise for lunch a little later on Thursday. 
The business paper contains 8 Bills and, from memory, there are two or three messages still to come from the other place. The Senate will shortly have before it the second reading debate on the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill 1972 which possibly, in the nature of things and if the time taken for debate in the other place is any criterion, will take a couple of days to debate. I think that in the circumstances and in the interests of all honourable senators we could do what I have proposed without taxing our physical resources too much because I am not proposing that we sit later at night. I think that by agreeing to the motion we could dispose of the business before us most expeditiously. I think we should reach a decision on whether the Senate should meet earlier each day for the remainder of the sittings. 

In a question without notice on 26th April 1972,  Senator Townley  asked the Minister representing the Treasurer whether a working mother may claim an income tax deduction for costs incurred in having her children looked after during her working hours and, if not, whether the Government will examine this matter. The Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
There is no specific provision in the income tax law under which a working mother may be allowed a deduction for all kinds of expenditure incurred by her in having her children minded while she is at work. Depending upon the facts of the particular case, however, she may be entitled to a concessional deduction under the heading of education expenses or under the provision relating to a housekeeper. 
If a child is old enough to attend a school at which full-time education is provided, expenses incurred by the mother in connexion with the full-time education of the child at the school are allowed as deductions up to a maximum amount of $400 per annum for each such child. No deduction is allowable where the child attends an establishment which merely provides a child minding service and is not a school providing full-time education. 
Under the housekeeper provision, a taxpayer who is a deserted wife or widow may be allowed a deduction of up to $312 per annum if a housekeeper is wholly engaged throughout the year in keeping house for the taxpayer and in caring for a child of the taxpayer less than 16 years of age. If these tests are satisfied during part only of the year, the deduction of $312 is reduced proportionately. A deduction is not available under the housekeeper provision where a person not wholly engaged as a housekeeper is employed merely to mind a child for part of the day or where the taxpayer is a married woman living with her husband. 
The question of allowing deductions to working mothers for child minding expenses generally is a matter which will be considered during the preparation of the next Budget. 

 Senator GREENWOOD- On 22nd February 1972  Senator Hannan  asked me in a question without notice about the visit to Australia by the Royal Winnipeg Ballet. 
The Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Williamson-Edgley Theatres Ltd received  a  grant of $40,000 from the international tours fund of the Australian Council for the Arts for the Australian tour by the Royal Winnipeg Ballet Company. This grant was in the form of a guarantee against loss. In the event of the deficit on the tour proving to be less than the $40,000, part or all of the grant would be returned. Any profits on the tour were to be shared by the Australian Council. 
I have been informed that the General Manager of Williamson-Edgley Theatres Ltd is  Mr Michael  Edgley, whohas brought to Australia  a  number of attractions from the Soviet Union and from other countries. 
The international tours fund of the Australian Council for  the  Arts  is  operated separately from the funds set aside for the Council's domestic programmes. Had  a  grant not been provided for the Royal Winnipeg Ballet, the funds would have been allocated to another international project and not to  a  regional company. Separate provision is made by the Council for regional companies, and this is  one of  the most rapidly growing sections ofthe Council's budget. 
Council assistance  is  given to entrepreneurs to allow them  to bring to  Australia groups of high  artistic  standing  and  work  of  a different  kind  from that presented  by local  companies, where the risk factor  is  greater than the entrepreneur would  be  willingto carry alone. This policy makes possible visits  to  Australia by international companies and  artists, which  Australians would not otherwise have the opportunity to see. 
Each request for assistance is considered on its merits and in  the  light of the funds available at that lime. However, no support  is  at present contemplated for any Soviet artists visiting Australia. 
(8.0) - If I appear to be a little tardy in commencing my comments it is because protocol dictates that the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  should commence reading the Budget Speech before I do. Therefore, with your leave,  Mr President.  I may dawdle a moment. 
It is with very great regret that I have to inform the Senate of the death on 7th July last of  Sir Owen  Dixon, a former Chief Justice of the High Court of Australia, at the age of 86 years.  Sir Owen  Dixon was without doubt one of the truly great Australians of his time.  His  reputation as an outstanding jurist was acknowledged both in Australia and overseas, particularly in Great Britain and the United States of America. But his contributions extended far beyond the legal field. 

 Sir Owen Dixon was born at Hawthorn, Victoria, on 28th April 1886. He was educated at Hawthorn College, now 

 Death of 
 Sir Owen 
 Dixon defunct, and at the University of Melbourne where he took out degrees in arts and law. He was called to the Victorian Bar in 1910 and in 1922, at the age of 36, he became a King's Counsel. Within the next 2 years he was to appear twice in London before the Privy Council, an unusual event for an Australian lawyer in those days, and nearly 3 decades before he was appointed a member of the Council. In 1926 he became Acting Justice of the Supreme Court of Victoria and in 1929 he was appointed as a Justice of the High Court. He was Chief Justice of the High Court from 1952 until his retirement in 1964. 
When called upon in times of crisis,  Sir Owen  Dixon served with equally great distinction in other spheres. In 1940, at the request of the Menzies Government, he undertook the chairmanship of the Central Wool Committee which had been set up to administer the wartime handling of the Australian wool clip. During the following 2 years he become  chairman  of the Australian Shipping Control Board, the Marine Risks Insurance Board, the Commonwealth Marine Salvage Board and the Allied Consultative Shipping Council in Australia. In 1942 he was appointed by the Curtin Government as Australian Minister to the United States and he remained in that important post until he resumed his seat on the bench in 1944. In 1950 he was appointed by the United Nations as mediator in the dispute between India and Pakistan over Kashmir.  His  tireless efforts to bring an end to that unhappy conflict were not to succeed, but it was widely recognised that he had done as much as any man could possibly have done in most difficult circumstances. 
In 1963 he was awarded by  Her  Majesty the Queen the Order of Merit, a rare distinction and one bestowed only on the personal initiative of the Sovereign. He also was a Knight Grand Cross of the Order of St Michael and St George and he held honorary law doctorates from Oxford and Harvard. It is, nonetheless, as an outstanding man of law that  Sir Owen  Dixon will be remembered.  His  immense scholarship, his qualities of mind and his unfailing personal dignity set him out among his fellows wherever he moved. He commanded respect in every field of human endeavour 

 Death of 
 Sir Owen 
 Dixon to which his talents were called and he was held in deep affection by all who knew him. Australia has indeed lost a great man. This country is richer for the life of Owen Dixon. We salute his memory and we extend our deepest sympathy to his family. Perhaps the Leaders of the other parties will wish to join me in the remarks I make on behalf of honourable senators of the Government parties and indeed, I am sure, on behalf of all honourable senators. 
 Mr President,  I crave the indulgence of the Senate to make a statement about procedure this evening. In accordance with our tradition, at 8 p.m. I will be moving a motion and tabling papers. Then, on behalf of the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden),I  shall read the Budget Speech. I shall start about 2 or 3 minutes after the Treasurer has started. When I conclude, as is the tradition.  Senator Murphy,  as Leader of the Opposition, will move the adjournment of the debate. It has been agreed between us, as leaders -  Senator Gair  in concurrence - that after  Senator Murphy  moves the adjournment of the debate I shall move that the Senate adjourn until 3 p.m. tomorrow. softwood forestry agreement BILL 1972 
Second Reading 
Debate resumed from 31 May (vide page 2343), on motion by  Senator Cotton: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 

 Senator mulvihill (New South Wales) (4.49)  -  The Opposition accepts the reason for the introduction of the Bill which is to provide assistance to the States for 5 years to extend their softwood plantings. However, the Opposition feels that some matters should be elaborated upon. I hope that they will be elaborated upon by the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  when he concludes the debate. It is on that basis that on behalf of the Opposition i move an amendment in the following form: 
At end of motion add -  but the Senate deplores the Government's failure to prepare and publish, in consultation wilh the States, a national plan for - 
the full use and development of Australia's forestry resources; and 
the conservation of existing hardwood forests and associated flora and fauna in relation to softwood plantings. 
In 1968  Sir John  McEwen stated that the Government should embark upon a feasibility study to decide the prospects for the Australian timber industry. We want to be much more precise. It is interesting to note that at a stage when we are talking about stabilising our forest resources Papua New Guinea is on the threshold of independence. Undoubtedly we hope that an economic understanding will be developed between the new country and the older country, and I have no doubt that timber will be one of the exports to Australia that will be vital to the Papua New Guinea economy. On the other hand, we know that at times our timber industry can be subject to pressures from New Zealand. As  Senator Cotton  would well know from his long association with the industry, over the last 50 years or so there have been at times quite sizeable imports of timber from countries such as Finland. 
While we support the principles of the Bill, we pose one very interesting question. Is it wise to go ahead with bulldozer madness, as we are in some areas, and destroy gum forests and replace them with pine? I think that at a time when the Government is pouring millions of dollars into the rehabilitation of the wool industry it is time we had a good, hard look at some of our marginal country and considered whether it would not be better to have large pine plantations there rather than to plant them in areas where there are now gum forests. There is a developing world shortage of timber. We can see that by the year 2000 the demand for timber will be enormous, but I cannot see, and the Opposition cannot see, that it is necessary to demolish non-pine trees when it is more logical to plant pine trees in other areas where there can be regeneration. I think  Senator Cotton  would be well aware that Michigan in the United States of America faced a situation such as the one with which we are faced. There was tremendous regeneration there. I cannot see why there should not be a lot more regeneration in some of our own areas. I know that there has been some regeneration in the electorate of Macarthur, which I know fairly well. There have been some private forestry projects, in a very small way. 
We feel that there is not enough liaison between conservaton authorities and foresters and that more pine forests could be planted without encroaching on our normal gum bushland concept. With all due respect to foresters, the attitude of many of them is simply that timber is a cash crop  J  That is all there is to it. With the big question mark so far as the wool industry is concerned, in many cases one could argue for pine cultivation at the expense of our grazing lands rather than to have the constant conflict that goes on between conservationists and foresters. I think the Minister would be well aware of the intense agitation that has been generated by the Save the Colong Caves Committee, which argues that the Boyd Plateau area of New South Wales should not be sacrificed simply to achieve the particular pines targets for which we strive. There has been much agitation in regard to this matter. 
The position is highlighted when we fly over many areas of the States and see the tragedy of the implementation of a short term policy rather than of a long term policy. In support of my attitude and that of the Opposition, I point out to the Minister that clause (b) of the amendment refers to flora and fauna. I wish to refer to a pamphlet titled 'The Boyd Plateau- Park or Pines?'. I think that the Minister will be aware that it covers the history of Boyd Park land back to the 1800s. The early settlers of New South Wales who were insistent that this land be kept in its natural state were looking a long way ahead. The KanangraBoyd National Park was dedicated in 1969, but much preliminary work had been done before that time. There is no reason why the Boyd Plateau should not remain in its present state without the inevitable scarring which would occur. This is the problem which concerns us. 
This plateau 4,000 feet above sea level is the chief watershed of the National Park to which I refer. There is no doubt that the first run off will increase erosion sharply after clearing and the introduction of pine plantations. We are vitally concerned about this situation. Since the Commonwealth is providing the funds to the Slates for this purpose it should insist that any forestry expansion of the pine variety should not take place to the detriment of all non-pine bushland. If  Senator Prowse  were here he would be extremely vocal about some of the stupid propaganda that has been expounded by some of the forestry interests which claim blandly that Australian wildlife can live in pine forests. That is absolutely stupid. I remember visiting many of the pine plantations in the Australian Capital Territory, again with  Senator Prowse,  as a member of the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution. I respect the financial potential of these areas and 1 am not cavilling at what was done, but when the foresters said to us blandly: 'You know, there are kangaroos there'.  Senator Prowse  pointed out that the only places where there were kangaroos was where they were grazing on some of the fire breaks. The position applies also to bird life which is non-existent in these pine forests. 
A portfolio was created to cover conservation and  Mr Howson  is now Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts. But I would like to feel that within the Department of National Development which normally covers the activities of the Forestry and Timber Bureau there was a greater recognition of the live and let live policy, f know that all honourable senators have been inundated by various publications. 1 have one here called the 'Forest Products Bulletin' which is issued by New Zealand Forest Products (Aust.) Pty Ltd. 1 know that within the Australian timber industry, even on the north coast of New South Wales to which my colleague,  Senator Douglas  McClelland will probably refer, there are local problems. The burden of my remarks is that with proper planning - I am not being aggressive towards the States - there is not the faintest reason why some of the natural bushland oases cannot be protected and not sacrified to the bulldozer. There is no question about what should be done when we look at some of these situations. 
The Minister will be aware that for over 2 years we have been watting for the implementation of the interim report of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Wildlife Conservation which is chaired by the honourable member for Henty  (Mr Fox).  The Committee recommended the immediate retention of habitat for certain wildlife. When 1 look at sub-marginal land from the air, I feel that I would like to see some of it planted with pine forests but they should bc expanded only if there is not the desolation which sometimes occurs when minor gum forests are destroyed for this purpose. Taking the situation further, in New South Wales we have had an endless battle about the mining of limestone from the Colong Caves. I believe that foresters as a whole are less rigid in their attitudes than are mining interests, but that does not alter the fact, particularly in relation to the Boyd Plateau, that it is a relatively low price to pay to grant clemency to this area. 
On 20th August last year, the Minister for Primary Industry,  Mr Sinclair,  stated that between 50,000 and 90,000 wool growers received less than $2,000 income on which to live after servicing debts. The Government is putting millions of dollars into the wool industry, and I do not object to the rehabilitation of any person, whether he be involved in primary industry or secondary industry, but I believe that we are reaching the cross road. If those people are being phased out of the industry, more attractive terms could be provided for additional pine plantations and, at the same time, areas such as the Boyd Plateau could be preserved. In many respects, some of the early post-war soil erosion services conducted by the Soil Conservation Service of New South Wales reached a certain stage of perfection up to the 1950s. Now. other difficulties have arisen. In many cases, the position gets back to over-stocking. I believe that overall we should receive a little more information about forestry controls than we have received in the past. On a previous occasion, I asked whether honourable senators could sit in at some of the conferences held by foresters, and  Senator O'Byrne  and I attended one such conference. Some extremely interesting discussion took place dealing with the technique of using aircraft and helicopters to control fires. I know that something has been done. It is true that because of the geography of Australia we cannot emulate entirely the methods adopted in Canada. 1 emphasise that we of the Opposition feel that overall there is too much compartmentisation of forestry matters. The Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  has all the say in this regard. The position is the same in regard to mining where again the Minister for National Development and his experts have the say. But when matters of conservation arise, whether they concern the New South Wales Minister for Conservation,  Mr Beale,  or his Commonwealth counterpart.  Mr Howson,  it seems that we are never consulted to any degree. These are a few of the matters about which the Opposition is so concerned. I shall conclude my remarks on another point in relation to the conservation angle. The trouble is that a pine forest is a monoculture and supports very few other forms of vegetation. I sincerely hope that when the Minister develops his argument he will be able to put at rest some of the fears which we of the Opposition hold. I believe that much can be said for the inter-mingling of the wool and timber industries and for some of the wool producing areas being replaced by timber plantations, but I emphasise again that there has not been enough clarity in regard to these unnecessary clashes with the foresters. 
The Minister will know the history of what has happened in California over 50 years. The argument was advanced by the hardened businessmen that the redwood forests should all go to the block, as it were, and be sold but a very sane attitude was adopted by the Californian legislature. California was able to retain most of its famous redwood forests. I suppose that in the capitalist economy in which we live there has to be some contribution. I believe that the sudden obsession to raise the level of forestry plantations to a stage where we can control the influx of New 
Guinea and New Zealand timber and at the same time build up our maximum, should not be allowed to operate at the expense of other types of timber. This is our fear. We feel that there has to be a much more clear cut understanding of the position otherwise there will be continuous heart burnings at a time when I think that Australia as a whole has to recognise that considerable changes must be made in its agricultural policy. It is for that reason that the Opposition has submitted the amendment which has been circulated. 
by leave - Honourable senators will recall that on 5th October 1971, in announcing an interim increase of $10.50 a week in Commonwealth nursing home benefits, I informed the Senate that the Government had for some time past been examining the role of nursing homes in caring for the sick aged, their financial position and the extent of Commonwealth financial assistance for all nursing home patients. I also stated at that time that it was the intention of the Government as announced by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  to introduce new long term arrangements for nursing home patients as soon as it was practicable to do so. The Government has now finalised its consideration of a comprehensive study of the existing nursing home arrangements, and, as announced by the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  in his Budget Speech, it has decided to introduce some new forms of assistance for patients who require nursing care on a continuous basis. The purpose of this statement is to inform honourable senators of the details of these new forms of assistance and of the conditions which will apply to them. 
In order that the Government's proposals may be seen in their proper setting, I will first of all refer to the main issues to which the examination carried out by the Government was directed. Over the past 2 decades, institutional care has undergone important evolutionary changes. At an earlier stage of development, chronically ill aged persons who could not be cared for at home were generally admitted to public hospitals. This practice still occurs to some extent, but with the rapid development of nursing homes, this type of institution has come to be recognised as the avenue for caring for the chronically ill and sick aged who do not need treatment for an acute condition in a general hospital. 
Since 1959, the number of nursing home beds in Australia has grown from 16,500 to over 51,000. Whilst this steep growth has not been without its problems, it must be borne in mind that, without an expansion of this kind in the availability of nursing home accommodation, chronically ill aged persons would either have not been adequately cared for or would have represented a considerable and perhaps an impossible strain on the State public hospitals system. It is largely because of the widespread development of nursing homes that the adequacy and standard of hospital and nursing home care of aged persons achieved in Australia compares more than favourably with that of many other countries. However, the provision of nursing home care is not a static activity, and never can be. There are differentials in charges, and services and indeed in facilities provided for patients both within and between States which make the task of ensuring that nursing homes achieve their prime purpose of maximum patient care a continuing challenge. 
The aspects which have concerned the Government in its approach to this problem are 4 in number. Firstly, the fact that some old people are admitted to nursing homes when there is no real medical need for them to go into a home. If such persons were cared for in their own homes or other residential accommodation, their peace of mind, and consequently their overall medical condition, would be far better. Professional advice made available to the Government, both departmentally and from independent sources, is almost unanimous that elderly people should be encouraged to remain in their domestic environment, as long as they are able to do so. Secondly, the financial hardship being experienced by some patients and relatives in meeting the fees charged by nursing homes. Allied to this are the financial difficulties faced by many religious and charitable nursing homes which have recognised the inadequate financial resources of many of their patients and have charged them fees below the cost of the service. Thirdly, the fact that nursing home patients are accommodated in homes varying considerably in size, services provided, standard of accommodation and cost. Of the 51,000 nursing home beds at present available, 19 per cent are in homes conducted by State governments, 27 per cent are in homes conducted by religious and charitable bodies, and 54 per cent are in homes run by private proprietors. Fourthly, the need to incorporate conditions into the nursing home arrangements so as to ensure that benefits which are intended to provide financial protection for patients do, in fact, achieve that objective. 
These matters have been thoroughly examined by the Government. I assure honourable senators that this review has been motivated by our determination to find the very best means of providing the chronically ill aged members of our community with the nursing care and other facilities they need, coupled with the financial protection that we all wish them to have. The new comprehensive plan now being introduced involves a series of essential points which are directed to providing encourage? ment for aged persons to remain in . their own homes as long as they are able - to secure the nursing and other care they need in their homes. At the same time, the plan is designed to ensure the continuance of nursing homes as a recognised form of institutional care, particularly for chronically ill aged persons who can no longer be adequately cared for in a domestic environment. 

The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: . 
I am aware pf the report entitled, 'On the Dangers of Cannabis*. 

 Dr Chesher's statement was: 
Cannabis is not considered  a  drug of - addiction'. 

 Dr Chesher's statement was: lt is generally conceded that there is no truth in the contention that cannabis use leads to the use of narcotic drugs'. He added that: 
The only way to test this hypothesis is to compare directly over a period of time the total population of cannabis users (or  a  representative sample of them) and determine the proportion of this population who become narcotic users. A'  study  of this natnre has not been done. . . .' 
In referring to the fact that legal penalties may be incurred by young users of marihuana,  Dr Chesher  stated: 
This surely must be counted among the adverse effects of cannabis. It might very well be its most serious adverse effect'. However, in another part of the report he stated: "... It is only when accurate information of the number of people using the drug (and the extent of their use) is available that one can assess the proportion of this total who are suffering an adverse reaction.' 
Yes. He also made it clear that 'it is imperative that we should know more of the long-term effects on health of the continued, chronic administration of the drug.' 
Yes. 
Yes. It should be pointed out, however, that it is to a large degree unreal to refer to a 'therapeutic index' in relation to cannabis, as in the context of Western medicine the drug has no role in therapeutics. 
The statements referred to are, of course,  Dr Chesher's  statements. I would suggest, therefore, that the honourable senator should refer to  Dr Chesher  any questions he may wish to raise regarding the significance or interpretation of the statements, within the context of the report as  a  whole. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
84,214. All these applications were in respect of disodium cromoglycate (Intal) for which, because it is a new drug consisting of solid material inhaled directly into the lungs, additional information was required on a special application form, referred to as a 'Special Authority'. The use of the special application form was discontinued on 1st April 1972, following a recommendation to this effect from the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee. 
Between 7 and 11 months, depending on the time between the result of an application which is eventually successful, and the meeting of the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee at which the application is considered. 
The honourable senator will be aware that the application' referred to in this part of the question is not related to the 'applications' referred to in part (1) or the 'procedure' referred to in part (3). 
Prior to 1st April 1972, when the 'Special Authority' requirement for Intal was discontinued, and replaced by the normal application for authority to prescribe, the application was made by the patient's medical practitioner to the DirectorGeneral of Health or his delegate on a special form (Form PB10a). Except for the form, this procedure was identical with that required in respect of other drugs for the prescription of which the authority of the Director-General is required. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
Most States and the Northern Territory retain special legislation for Aborigines, providing among other things for the maintenance and management of Aboriginal reserves and the provision of special assistance to Aborigines. The Government sees no justification for proposing the complete abolition of such legislation in Queensland or in any other State. 
The Prime Minister has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
and (2) I am advised that the question appears to relate to the proposed sale of Gimbat Station. I am also advised that the present owners have publicly stated that the property will initially be offered for sale to Australians, so that the basis for the statement that 'the prospectus for this sale is aimed at American investors' is not known. Any sale of the property would involve the transfer of the interest of the present owners in the leasehold only, of the land. Neither lease conditions nor the Territory ordinances concerned contain restrictions on the transfer of the property to nationals of other countries. 
As to consideration of this matter by the Senate Select Committee on Foreign Ownership and Control, the Committee's terms of reference appear to allow it to deal with this subject. 
There is no evidence to support the suggestion made in the honourable senator's question. If the Wool Bureau referred to by the honourable senator is the Australian Wool Bureau, I would point out that this body was replaced by the Australian Wool Board in 1963. 
The Prime Minister has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question. 
I am advised that the 'Report of the Royal Commission on Espionage' dated 22nd August 1955, has been available to senators and to the public since that date, as has the more detailed transcript of evidence given at the proceedings. The Royal Commission decided that the material referred to in the honourable member's question should not be published. The Government sees no reason to depart from that view. 

The Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Commonwealth Statistician has supplied the following information in reply to parts (a) and (b) of the honourable senator's Question No. 2104: 
As exports from Australia of kangaroo bides are not separately recorded, but are included under Hides and Skins (except Fur Skins) other than Bovine, Equine, Calf, Kip, Goat, Kid, Sheep, Lamb and Reptile the Commonwealth Statistician has supplied the following information showing exports under that item for each of the four quarters of 1971 and the quarter ended March 1972. 
In addition, he has supplied the following supplementary details of exports of Kangaroo and Wallaby Fur Skins (Undressed), Fur Skins Tanned or Dressed (including Dyed), and Other Leather (Marsupial). 
The Prime Minister has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Government of the United States of America has, with the support of the Australian Government, been engaged in helping the Government of the Republic of Vietnam to withstand armed aggression mounted against it by the communist government of North Vietnam. Parliamentary questions are not a suitable vehicle for the exchange of views on such hypothetical issues as an assumed change in the status of hostilities in Vietnam. I  am  advised that, in fact, there has been no such change in the status of hostilities. 
The Prime Minister has provided the following answerto the honourable senator's question: 
and(2) The Report of the CommonwealthState Officials' Committee on Decentralisation was forwarded to the Commonwealth and State Governments on 16th June 1972. The Commonwealth Government has the Report under consideration at the present time.  I  have already indicated that the Commonwealth is agreeable to the publication of the Report! however, publication depends also on agreement by the States and I am consulting them about [he matter. On my instructions the Report is being printed in anticipation of the Stales' agreement butI am advised that (he printing will take some weeks. 
The Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senators question: 
Action was taken in February 1971 to reduce trading bank interest rates. This included a reduction of 0.5 per cent, from 8.25 per cent to 7.75 per cent per annum, in the maximum overdraft rate. These reductions in bank interest rates, together with the significant reductions in yields on government securities and in private interest rates have placed general downward pressure on the cost of finance in the economy. 
The increasing prices of houses is only one aspect of the overall problem of inflation facing the country. The Government is, of course, very concerned with the problem of inflation and has expressed that concern in consistently directing its economic policies at the control of inflation. In particular the Government has instituted policies aimed at counteracting the over-rapid rises in costs, particularly wage costs, and their passing on in higher prices - trends which are at the root of the inflationary problem. The Commonwealth has intervened in all major cases before the Arbitration Commission; the Arbitration Act has been amended to stress public-interest considerations; and the Government is aiming to increase the element of competition in the economy by strengthening the legislation against restrictive trade' practices and speeding up the review of the tariff. 
However, the Government has demonstrated its concern with the burdens which inflation has placed on those aspiring to own their own homes by extending the provisions relatingto home savings giants. In the Budget for 1972-73, the Government has provided for an increase in the maximum value of a home which may attract a grant from $17,500 to $22,500. and an increase in the maximum grant itself from $500 on savings of $ 1,500 to $750 on savings of $2,250. 
The Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
By way of preface, the Commonwealth Statistician has advised that only a limited amount of the information requested  is  available from statistics collected by the Bureau of Census and Statistics. 
Some information  on  the degree of overseas participation  in  Australian industry  is  available in studies relating  to  the manufacturing industry and the mining industry the most recent of which refer  to  years 1966-67 and 1968, respectively. These results are contained  in  3 statistical bulletins (ref. nos 12.19, 12.20 and 10.42) copies of which are available  in  the Parliamentary Library. I have also arranged for the Statistician  to  send copies of these publications  to  the Honourable  Senator. Information  on the degree of foreign ownership and control of Australian industry  is  also discussed  on  pages 21  to  27 and 138  to  140 of the Treasury Economic Paper No. 1 'Overseas Investment  in  Australia' which was tabled  in  the House of Representatives  on  16th May 1972 by the Treasurer. 
Statistics  of the annual  inflow  of direct overseas investment  in  Australian companies, classified by industry,  an  analysis of the capital structure of Australian subsidiaries of overseas companies, and information on the net liabilities of  Australian  branches of overseas companies  to  their head offices are contained  in  the 'Annual 
Bulletin of Overseas Investment' (ref. no. 5.20). The latest Bulletin, for 1969-70, is available from the Parliamentary Library and the bulletin for 1970-71 is expected to be published shortly. A copy of the 1969-70 bulletin has been sent to the Honourable  Senator. Information  on the industry of overseas investment is also considered on pages 20 to 21 of the Treasury Economic Paper. 
No statistics are compiled by the Statistician in respect of the value of all assets owned in Australia by the companies in question, nor is the Statistician able, under the Census and Statistics Act, to disclose any details in respect of individual companies. 
Information in respect of manufacturing industry is, however, contained in the publication of the Department of Trade and Industry entitled Directory of Overseas Investment in Australian Manufacturing Industry 1971'. A copy of that publication is available in the Parliamentary Library and a copy has been sent to the Honourable  Senator. 
to (5) Specific information on these matters is not available. 
The Prime Minister has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Director of the Australian Conservation Foundation wrote to me on 29th June 1972 informing me that the Foundation had issued a statement unequivocally opposing the French nuclear tests on environmental grounds. 
Provision has been made in the Budget for a grant of $150,000 to the Foundation in 1972-73. 
No. 
I crave the indulgence of the Senate to respond to your gracious words,  Mr President.  I thank you for the get well messages that you conveyed to me during the period of my illness. 1 acknowledge the messages which I received from ministerial colleagues and members of the Government parties. 1 acknowledge the message which I received from the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  conveying get well wishes on his own behalf and on behalf of members of his Party. I convey my thanks to  Senator Gair  and members of his Party for their get well messages. I also convey my thanks to the independent senators who conveyed get well messages to me. It was very comforting to receive those messages. 
I make one observation which has no political implications. I believe that all honourable senators recognise that during the life of this Parliament, the Senate, in its role and function, has taken on responsibilities which have broader horizons and wider perimeters than has been the case ever before in our history. We are all very proud of what we have taken on but it has put an added burden of responsibility on all honourable senators. It has put an added responsibility on you,  Mr President,  as Presiding Officer. It has put an added responsibility on leaders - myself,  Senator Murphy  and  Senator Gair  - and on Ministers. In my own case I have had to look at the burden of responsibility which I have carried as Leader of the Government in the Senate and its implications in regard to my health. It is a wonderful feeling and a very proud moment to sit again at this table as Leader of the Government in the Senate, and to sit with equality with all honourable senators at this time. 

I give notice that on the next day of sitting, following the normal period of questions without notice and other formal business, I shall move: 
That Estimates Committees A and C meet at 12 noon and that for that purpose the sitting of the Senate be suspended from 12 noon to 6 p.m. 
It is proposed that Estimates Committee A will meet in the Senate chamber and Estimates Committee C will meet in room L17. 
I was not here for the adjournment debate last night. In any event, I would not answer or attempt to give any assurance which deals with a purely personal matter. It could be quite improper for me so to do. I suggest that the honourable senator should place his question on the notice paper. 
Pursuant to section 14 of the Commonwealth Grants Commission Act 1933-1966, I present the thirty-ninth report (1972) of the Commonwealth Grants Commission on the applications made by 
Queensland, South Australia and Tasmania for financial assistance under section 96 of the Constitution. Incorporated in this report is the special report (1972) on the application made by Queensland for financial assistance under section 96 of the Constitution. 
Pursuant to section 9 of the Medical Research Endowment Act 1937, I present the annual report on work done under the Act during the year ended 31st December 1971. 
(11.24) - I point out to the Senate that the business now before us in the tabling of papers. Under this heading the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  presented a report and chose to make a statement on it. There is now a motion before us that the Senate take note of the paper, and the debate on the motion could continue for some time. I know the Minister wants to respond to what has been said by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  and no doubt other honourable senators would like to speak. In the circumstances, from the point of view of management of our business, I should like to ask for leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
(11.25)  -  by leave - I move: 
That  in accordance  with the provisions of the  Public Works Committee Act 1969-72  the Parlia  mentary Standing Committee on Public Works have leave to meet during the sitting of the Senate on Tuesday, 17th October 1972. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  has agreed to that proposition. 
I move: 
That at 12 o'clock midday the sitting of the Senate be suspended until 8 p.m., to enable Estimates Committees A and C to meet. 
Estimates Committee A will meet in the Senate chamber and Estimates Committee C will meet in Committee Room L 17. 
Tonight after 8 o'clock it is proposed to call on general business and I understand that it will be a continuation of the debate on the Commonwealth Electoral Bill 1972. 
That can be done at 8 o'clock. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That for the remainder of the present period of sittings, unless otherwise ordered. Government Business shall take precedence of all other business on the notice paper except questions and formal motions. 
by leave - I move: 
That Estimates Committees B and E meet at 2.15 p.m. and that for such purpose the sitting of the Senate be suspended from the conclusion of this morning's sitting until the ringing of the bells, provided that if at 10 p.m. tonight the Committees have not concluded their deliberations their proceedings will be interrupted and the sitting of the Senate will be resumed. 
In that event the sitting will be resumed with the ringing of the bells. The motion is tailored so that should the Committees complete their deliberations earlier than 10 p.m. the bells will be rung for the Senate to come back into plenary session. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
1 seek leave to move that business of the Senate be postponed for consideration of Government business, notice of motion No. 1. I had in mind to move this motion yesterday, but owing to certain factors and the courteous co-operation of  Senator Murphy  and  Senator Gair  it was stood over. I seek leave to have Government business, notice of motion No. 1 called on now. 
(12.0) - I cannot support  Senator Murphy's  amendment. I appreciate the point that he has made, but I can give him no assurance in this respect. I indicated to  Senator Murphy  yesterday or this morning that there are still quite a number of honourable senators on the Government side of the chamber who want to say something about the Commonwealth Electoral Bill. Amendments to it are also involved. It does not seem to me at this point of time that the whole of Thursday night should be devoted to debating the Commonwealth Electoral Bill, which is what I fear would happen. 
I wish to make a response to  Senator Gait's  comment. I have kept in mind that it may be necessary for me to move that the Senate sit on Friday of next week. That is as I see the situation at the moment, although it could alter in the meantime. But I think everybody should face up to the fact that it may be necessary for the Senate to sit on either Friday of next week or Monday of the following week. All of us have set our hearts against the terrible folly of sitting late hours, which is something I just cannot abide. I know that nobody in this chamber agrees with the practice of legislation by exhaustion. I do think that we should keep in mind the point that  Senator Gair  has raised. I will have to make a judgment on this matter. Before doing so I will confer with  Senator Gair  and  Senator Murphy  as to whether it will be necessary to sit on the Friday of next week. I should make it clear that 1 am referring to the Friday of next week and not tomorrow. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThat would be after 2nd November. If we were to sit on that day even the lawyers would have a problem, would they not? Let us not go into that one. I wish to say in good faith and in all sincerity to  Senator Murphy  and  Senator Gair  that, notwithstanding the fact that they have contingency motions on the notice paper and notwithstanding the fact that I have included the expression 'unless otherwise ordered' in the motion, I believe that we must try as hard as we possible can in the time available to us to work out a satisfactory programme which will enable the contingency motions which  Senator Murphy  and  Senator Gair  have on the notice paper and the other items which the Senate wishes to discuss to be, if not disposed of, at least brought forward for discussion. That depends on the degree of co-operation that I get in terms of the Bills that are to come across from the other place, which I think has to the order 40 Bills on its notice paper. Some of those Bills will be debated concurrently. I do not think I can say any more than that. 
 The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
and (2) There are 2 female members of the National Health and Medical Research Council. There is no reason why there should not be others, but I would draw the attention of the honourable senator to the fact that only 2 members, an eminent layman and an eminent laywoman are actually selected by the Minister for Health. The other members include 10 who are the occupants of certain Commonwealth or State Government positions and 11 who are the nominated representatives of various professional associations and colleges and of the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories Commission. There  is  nothing to prevent these organisations nominating a female representative, although only one has done so. Similarly a female occupant of one of the Government positions would automatically be the member of Council. 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That unless otherwise ordered the Senate at its rising on Thursday, 26th October 1972, shall adjourn until Friday. 27th October, at 10 a.m. and that the sittings that day shall be 10 a.m. to 1 p.m., 2 p.m. to 4.30 p.m. 
That unless otherwise ordered the Senate at its rising on Friday. 27th October 1972, shall adjourn until Monday, 30th October, at 2.30 p.m. and the sittings that day shall be 2.30 p.m. to 6 p.m., 8 p.m. to 11 p.m. 
That unless otherwise ordered question time, including questions on notice, for the remainder of the present sittings shall not exceed 45 minutes. 
(12.21) - I want to be clear on this. I understand that this is a procedural motion, which the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  is entitled to move. 
It is on the notice paper and I do not intend to challenge it, but I will certainly resist any subsequent proposal. 

<graphic href="054232197210240_13_1_1_A.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="054232197210240_13_1_2_N.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="054232197210240_13_1_3_P.jpg"></graphic>

Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Pursuant to section 14 of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act 1948-1971, I present the 24th annual report of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Board on the operation of the Act for the year ended 30th June 1972, together with financial accounts. 
Pursuant to section 22 of the Gold-Mining Industry Assistance Act 1954-1972, I present the 18th annual statement concerning the operation of the Act and the payment of subsidy during the year ended 30th June 1972. 
by leave - In fairness 1 feel bound by say that that is my understanding of the position. I would be the first to admit that sometimes I have honoured this arrangement in the breach because I have been under pressure. But what you,  Mr President,  and  Senator Murphy  have said is my understanding. We in the Ministry do not depart from that situation but sometimes it has happened because of the pressure under which we are working. We hope this will not happen in the future. 
by leave -I understand that on Thursday night, in my absence, copies of this statement by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  were sent to party leaders. I undertake to see that all honourable senators get a copy in their boxes this afternoon. Iask for leave to incorporate the statement in Hansard. 
(8.1) - I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I ask leave to have the second reading speech incorporated in Hansard. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Lawrie)  - ls there any objection? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 
The purpose of the Bill is to implement further the Government's continuing policy of providing planned assistance in the areas of greatest social need, lt is directed to the needs of the chronically ill in nursing homes and to those people who are looking after aged chronically ill relatives in their private homes who otherwise would need to be admitted to a nursing home. The Bill implements measures contained in the Budget for the provision of further Commonwealth benefits for pensioners in nursing homes and for the provision of a new fund benefit for patients in nursing homes who contribute to a hospital benefits fund. It also introduces the new measure foreshadowed in the Budget to provide a domiciliary nursing care benefit for approved persons who provide professional nursing and other care for elderly relatives living with them. 
The development of these measures was described in some detail in a statement I made in the Senate on 16th August last and also in a statement which  Dr Forbes  made to the House of Representatives on 29th August. There is no need therefore to traverse these areas again. Suffice it to say that the Government regards the introduction of these new measures as a milestone in the development and extension of public responsibility at the Commonwealth level, for the chronically ill, especially those whose financial circumstances are such that the cost burden of their nursing care is often equal to or even greater than their whole income, the excess being met in the main by relatives. 
The scheme of new nursing home benefits is based on the fact that approximately 80 per cent of patients in nursing homes throughout Australia are pensioners enrolled in the Pensioner Medical Service, nearly 40,000 people. These patients could reasonably be expected to contribute towards their maintenance three-quarters of the sum of the single rate of pension plus supplementary Social Services allowance. This means that the patient's contribution would, on present rates of pension, be $18 per week, leaving $6 per week for personal needs. 
The new Commonwealth benefit and the new fund benefit payable to contributors are fixed at a level designed to bridge the gap between the nursing home fees and the sum of the patient's contribution and the present Commonwealth benefits. These benefits are $3.50 per day in respect of ordinary care nursing home patients and $6.50 per day in respect of intensive nursing care patients. It is not intended, however, that the new benefit should bridge the gap regardless of fees charged by the nursing home. To this end therefore the Bill provides 3 controls: Firstly, the scale of maximum new benefits necessary to bridge the gap I have referred to is based on a notional nursing home fee which has been fixed, after survey, to include approximately 70 per cent of all nursing home bed charges in each State; secondly, the levels of fees charged by each nursing home are to be determined as a condition of registration and are not to be varied without prior approval; and thirdly - fees are not be be supplemented by charges for extras which properly should be included in the basic fee. 
The Government recognises that the new Commonwealth benefit .and fund benefit will lead to pressure by many nursing homes for approval to charge fees at levels higher than those applying at 30th June last and accepts that there will in the future be genuine cost factors to support increases. The Bill therefore contains provisions allowing review of fees from time to time, and provides a right of appeal to the Minister against Departmental decisions on levels of fees. Before making his decision the Minister will receive a report from a Nursing Homes Fees Review Committee of Inquiry which is to be established in each State. 
It is recognised too that the measure may tend to encourage more people to seek admission to nursing homes and this may not always be in the best social and medical interest of the patient. The Bill provides therefore for an admissions policy under which nursing home proprietors are obliged, as a condition of the approval of the nursing home, not to admit new patients without the prior approval of the Department. It is intended, however, that the primary basis of admission should continue to be the certificate as to the patient's medical condition by the patient's own doctor. The certificate will need to be supplemented by the endorsement of a medical practitioner employed in the Department of Health. Where necesary, there will be a process of consultation with the patient's own doctor. 
The Bill further provides that, in circumstances where it is not practicable to obtain prior approval for admission, approval may be given subsequently. It is intended too that a patient should be in need of a reasonable amount of nursing care to warrant admission to an approved nursing home, and experience has shown that this has most effect when supported as necessary by other professional services. 
In order that the measure will nol also possibly have the effect of stimulating undesirable growth of nursing homes, the Bill gives the Department authority to refuse approval, for the purposes of Commonwealth and fund benefits, to new nursing homes, or to the expansion of existing homes. New nursing homes will, however, not be refused approval on these grounds if persons intending to build a new nursing home, or to acquire existing premises for conversion to a nursing home, seek and receive Departmental approval in advance. The rate of development of nursing homes is, of course, primarily a State matter and the Government intends that there will be close consultation between the States and the Commonwealth at the official level on the matter of approvals of new nursing homes. Other conditions, for the purpose of ensuring that the needs of patients are satisfactorily provided for, may also be imposed. It is not intended that State nursing homes should be subject to the various conditions referred to. 
The Bill provides that the nursing homes scheme is to come into effect on a date to be proclaimed - current intentions are lo proclaim 1st January 1973 - and that all current approvals of nursing homes cease to have effect as at that date but will be replaced by new approvals which shall be subject to the conditions referred to. The new approvals will specify the number of beds and the levels of fees approved, and any other conditions attaching to the approvals. No new patients are to be admitted without prior approval. However, a person refused admission to a nursing home by the Department has a right of appeal to the Minister. A breach of conditions could result in revocation of approval and proprietors also have the right of appeal to the Minister in relation to the conditions applicable to the approval or in the event of revocation. A new Commonwealth benefit is payable in respect of P.M.S. pensioners to proprietors of approved nursing homes at the following rates: 
Where approved daily fees are less than the total of present and new Commonwealth benefits plus the patient's contribution (S 1 8 per week or $2.55 per day), the new Commonwealth benefit is reduced accordingly. For example, if the approved gross fee for a pensioner patient in a particular New South Wales nursing home were $74 per week for an intensive care patient then the patient would contribute $18 and the Commonwealth $56. The Commonwealth benefit comprises the present intensive care benefit of $45.50 per week and the maximum additional benefit of $10.50 per week. If, however, the gross fee were $69 per week the additional Commonwealth benefit would be $5.50 instead of $10.50 per week. 
Proprietors of nursing homes are to be required to keep such records as are necessary to ensure that the conditions of the approvals are being observed. Registered hospital benefits organisations are to provide a nursing home fund benefit for contributions to a hospital benefit fund on a similar basis lo and at the same rates as the new Commonwealth benefit for P.M.S. pensioners. Patients who are not P.M.S. pensioners at the commencement of the scheme may become contributors without being subject to the normal waiting period provided that they join a hospital benefits fund within two months. 
Claims for the new nursing home fund benefit are not to operate to allow the organisations to transfer the contributors to the special account - the debit balance of which is met annually by the Commonwealth - but such a claim may be debited to the special account if the patient has been transferred to that account for other reasons. Patients ceasing to be pensioners and becoming contributors to a hospital benefits fund within two months, shall, as is now the case with hospital benefits, be eligible for nursing home fund benefits, without being subject to the fund rules concerning a waiting period. The new nursing home fund benefits are to apply to persons eligible for benefits under the Subsidised Health Benefits Scheme, that is, unemployment and sickness beneficiaries, low-income families and migrants within two months of arrival in Australia. 
The provisions concerning re-approval, and the application of conditions in respect of admissions, levels of fees and development of new or enlarged nursing homes, do not apply to prescribed nursing homes conducted by or on behalf of a State, and, where a non-State home, having regard to the type of patients and their circumstances, charges less than what would be an appropriate fee for the services provided, the home may be exempted from the provisions which might otherwise reduce the amount of the new Commonwealth or fund nursing home benefit payable. 
I can assure honourable senators that, in the administration of the admissions policy, no patient in a nursing home at the commencement of the scheme will be obliged to leave because of the criteria to be applied in respect of new admissions. Nor will any new prospective patient be refused admission without prior consultation between medical officers of the Department and the patient's own doctor. The sole criterion applying to admissions is to be the well-being of the patient. Under the law approval must be given to the admission of a patient if the patient's medical condition needs such nursing care as warrants his admission, unless, having regard to all the circumstances, the needs of the patient would be adequately and more suitably provided for in another institution and such other accommodation is available. Alternatively, if a patient w!:o is over 65 years of age needs such nursing care as would warrant his admission to a nursing home, but it can be provided in the private home of a relative, then the relative may receive the new domiciliary nursing care benefit of $14 a week. 
It cannot be doubted that in a number of cases of the admission of elderly patients to nursing homes it would be of social and medical advantage to *.hem if they could remain in the environment of the private home with relatives able to look after them provided the professional nursing care needed is available. In many of such cases, however, financial considerations make this impracticable and the new benefit is designed to overcome the dilemma which faces relatives of patients in these circumstances. Accordingly the Bill provides that a person may apply to be an approved person for the purposes of the domiciliary nursing care benefit, where he cares for a relative in the private home which is the residence of the applicant and the patient. The patient must be over the age of 65 years and. on the certificate of a doctor and nurse, must have a continuing need for nursing care, and is receiving that care. 'Relative' includes a husband or wife (including a bona fide de facto relationship), a parent or grandparent, brother, sister, aunt or uncle, and step- and fosterrelationships are included. In special circumstances other persons may be approved as if such a relationship existed. Approval will be given if the criteria are met. and if the patient's medical condition is such that he could be admitted to a nursing home. The benefit may be payable in respect of two patients looked after by the one person. 
It is intended that the domiciliary nursing horns scheme is to commence  on  1st March 1973. The introduction of *he new nursing homes scheme, together with the new domiciliary nursing care benefit, is a further step forward in the development of Commonwealth responsibility in the geriatrics area which will prove equally as significant as the introduction in 1962 of the original nursing home benefits scheme which provides Commonwealth benefits for patients in approved nursing homes. That benefit continues, but in addition 'he Commonwealth, in respect of PMS pensioners, and the registered hospital benefits organisations in respect of patients insured for hospital benefits, will bridge the gap between nursing home charges and a reasonable contribution by patients towards their accommodation. The extent, however, to which the scheme will be successful, depends on the effectiveness of the fees and admissions policies in the legislation and the degree of co-operation from the nursing home proprietors in the operation of the scheme. I have no doubt that that co-operation will be readily given. 
The cost to the Commonwealth of the new benefit for PMS pensioners in nursing homes is estimated at $9. 1m for the current year and S21.9m for a full year. The cost of the domiciliary nursing care benefit is estimated at S4m for the current year and Si 4.5m for a full year. The cost to registered hospital benefits oganisations of the new nursing home fund benefit is to be met. at least for a time, from the reserves of the organisations, but at a later stage consideration will be given, when the level of hospital benefits contributions is under review, to including an element for the payment of nursing home fund benefits. The estimated cost to the organisations for 1972-73 is S2.2m and $5.4m for a full year. 
Other matters dealt with in the Bill include, firstly, sub-section  (2)  of section 19 is amended to include the new Wo .len Valley Hospital in the Australian Capital Territory, part of which is expected to open early in 1973, as a public hospital for the purposes of medical benefits, and lo change the name of the Canberra Community Hospital by removing the word 'Community' to accord with Australian Capital Territory legislation. Secondly. 5 sots of regulations promulgated since October 1971 are repealed and the provisions of those regulations incorporated in the schedules to the National Health Act. The regulations known as Nat' 'nal Health (Variation of Benefits) (Nos 3 to 7) Regulations provided for variations in the scope of the medical services in respect of which medical benefits are payable and variations in the rates of Commonwealth and fund medical benefits payable in respect of the scheduled medical services. The regulations are being incorporated in the Act because the Act provides that whilst the schedules may be varied by regulations such regula tions cease to have effect upon the expiration of 15 sitting days of the House of Representatives after the anniversary of the gazettal of the regulations. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator O'Byrne)  adjourned. 
(8.5) -I ask leave to table a document and to have a statement which has been circulated incorporated in Hansard. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Lawrie)  - Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
Pursuant to section 44 of the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories Act 1961-1970 I present the eleventh annual report of the 
Commonwealth Serum Laboratories Commission for the year ended 30th June 1972. together with financial statements and the Auditor-General's report on those statements. I might add, concerning the proprieties, that during the dinner adjournment I sent copies of the statement to both  Senator Murphy  and  Senator Gair.  With the concurrence of honourable senators I incorporate the statement in Hansard. (The statement read as follows) - 
For the information of honourable senators, I present the 1 1th annual report of the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories Commission for the year ended 30th June 1972. In so doing, I wish to make some observations on the comments contained in the report in connection with the Commission's financial problems and selling price policy. The Commission is concerned at its inability to secure sufficient revenue from its commercial operations to cover the whole of its costs. Honourable senators may be assured that I share this concern and that 1 have this matter under close consideration. With regard to the comment in the report that the 'selling prices of medical products distributed by CSL are mainly determined by the Minister and the Department of Health', I would observe that the Commission is not treated any differently from any other drug firm in regard to its sales on the open market. To elaborate further, the products of the Commission can be divided into 4 categories - e.g. (a) those medical products listed under the National Health Scheme; (b) those medical products not listed under the National Health Scheme; (c) veterinary products; and (d) blood products and polio, measles and rubella vaccines for which payment is made direct to CSL by the Commonwealth. 
As regards those products listed under the national health scheme, the Commission is treated in exactly the same manner as other manufacturers. The Commission applies to the Department for a variation of its prices. The proposed prices are examined within my Department and if agreed to, are included as the price in the list of pharmaceutical benefits available under the National Health Act. Concerning those products not on the national health list, the prices are determined by the Commission in the light of the competitive situation in which they live. This applies to medical and veterinary products whether sold on the local or export market. Under Section 22 of the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories Act and after consulting with the Commission, prices are determined for all substances either imported or manufactured which may be supplied by CSL to the Commonwealth or to a State. However, the majority of the issues made under my determination concern category (d), i.e., blood products and polio, measles and rubella vaccines. These are distributed to me public free of charge and reimbursement to the Commission is made at prices which include an allowance for general overheads and a profit margin. 
In connection with the Commission's reference to the need for substantial Treasury funds to support its operations, I point out that provision has been made under this year's Appropriations for advances totalling $647,000 to meet research and reserve stock activities of the Commission under section 19(b) of the Act in 1972-73. The Appropriations also make provision for additional capital of S2.093m to be extended to the Commission to meet capital works expenditure in 1972-73. The Commission has expressed the view that there should be a reappraisal of its objectives and responsibilities. I am in full agreement with this view, and as late as last week, I have had discussions with the  Chairman  and the Director of the Commission in which there has been an exploration of the areas in which a wider field of activities for the Commission could receive the consideration of the Government. As a result of these discussions the Commission has today placed before me a full documentation so that after a thorough examination of the relevant financial and technical considerations, I shall be in a position to seek the Government's consideration of the matters concerned. 
The Prime Minister has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
I am informed that the British Home Office has been unable to comment on  Mr Taylor's  case, in the absence of details of date, flight times and passport reference numbers. If such details become available, the matter can be examined further. The British authorities have advised that they are ready to investigate complaints when sufficient details are available to permit this to be done. 
In the article to which  Senator Mulvihill  refers, the question of appropriate entry channels is raised. I am informed that at Heathrow Airport there is provision for 3 entry channels through which persons entering the United Kingdom may pass. These channels are for use, respectively by: 
those carrying United Kingdom passports; 
those carrying Commonwealth and Irish Republic passports; and 
those carrying other passports. 
Commonwealth citizens, including those carrying Australian passports, would ordinarily pass through the second of these 3 entry points although it has happened on occasions that Australian passport holders have been asked to approach the third of the channels because the 
Commonwealth channel has not been manned at the time, or to help in expediting the clearing of passengers from the immigration control point. (2) See answer to (1). 
(11.52) - In view of the statement, I will move for the adjournment of the debate and ask for leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
Pursuant to section 10 of the Science and Industry Endowment Act 1926-49, I present the report of the AuditorGeneral on the accounts of the Science and Industry Endowment Fund for the year ended 30th June 1972. 
(3.25)- I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The speech is very short and I seek leave for it to be incorporated in Hansard. 
(3.44)  -  I move: 
That the Bill be now read  a  second time. 
I  understand,  Mr President,  that we have sorted out our difficulties and I ask that the second reading speech on this Bill be incorporated. 
(3.45) - I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I ask for leave for the second reading speech to be incorporated in Hansard. 
(11.27) -I indicate, as I did yesterday, that the Government will resist the proposal. I said in good faith originally that I would try within the possibilities to allow the matter to come on before the Senate went into recess, as I said I would do with a matter put forward by the Democratic Labor Party. I can say no more than that at present, other than that the Government must resist the motion again today. 
Question put: 
That the motion  (Senator Murphy's)  be agreed to. 
By command of His Excellency the GovernorGeneral I lay upon the table the following paper: 
Advance to the Treasurer, statement for the year 1971-72 of Heads of Expenditure and the amounts charged thereto pursuant to section 36a of the Audit Act 1901-69. 
(11.53) - I move: 
That, unless otherwise ordered, the Senate at its rising on Thursday, 26th October, adjourn until  Friday,  27th October at 10 a.m., and that the  times of  meeting that day be - 10 a.m. until1 p.m.  2 p.m. until 4.30 p.m. 
Honourable senators will note that I have stipulated '4.30 p.m.' in the motion because, having regard to the ability of honourable senators to return to their home States, it is necessary that we should lift at 4.30 on Friday to enable them to get flights out of Canberra later in the afternoon. I also have in my mind the arrangement about which agreement has been reached in the past between the Whips and the Leaders of the Parties - and there has been no difficulty about it - by which under certain circumstances honourable senators who want to leave before 4.30 in the afternoon can do so by mutual consent. I do not want to speak any further to the motion. It is fundamental in its wording. Having regard to the fact that the Parliament is to be dissolved on Thursday, 2nd November, it means that at the very best we can sit only until next Wednesday. I think it is an appropriate motion. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI understand from my grapevine that about 12 messages are still to come from the other place. I have done some arithmetic in a very rough way, I am bound to admit, and it appears that we have approximately 25 Bills to discuss. Some of them can be debated concurrently, as we have been doing. Of course, we also have to take note of the Budget Papers and then pass the Appropriation Bills per se. It would be premature for me to look into the crystal ball now. However, after the sitting of the House of Representatives today, I shall be in a better position, perhaps by late tomorrow, to prognosticate. The decision made will of course be with the will of the Senate. 
(11.58) - I move: 
That unless otherwise ordered, question time, including questions on notice, for the remainder of the present period of sittings, shall not exceed forty-five minutes.  1 would be the first to acknowledge that this motion raises more problems than the 2 which have been dealt with. 1 want to make it abundantly clear that the wording of the motion contains the phrases 'unless otherwise ordered' and 'for the remainder of the present period of sittings'. In the other place after a question time period of 45 minutes, either the Prime Minister or the Leader of the House invariably asks that further questions be put on notice. I as Leader of the Government in the Senate could do the same thing in the Senate. However, I understand that the question would then arise as to whether the Senate would agree to this. I would be the first to admit that whenever I have asked the Senate for its co-operation, in the main, with a couple of notable exceptions among honourable senators - and I am not pointing the finger of criticism at any honourable senator on either side of the chamber - that co-operation has been forthcoming. However, on one day last week question time extended over an hour and a half and yesterday it extended for an hour and a quarter. 1 shall not be arbitrary about this motion. Anything I do in this field will be done in the best interests of all honourable senators. Should a situation arise whereby an honourable senator sought leave to continue question time, we could continue it a little longer for that occasion. I do not say that the fault for lengthy question times lies with the Opposition; there is fault on both sides. 1 am prepared to admit that I have at times given answers to questions which were perhaps a little long: with hindsight I have realised that I could have given shorter answers. 
The problem is difficult and I do not think we should introduce personalities into it. The logic of it is not only to restrict question time to three-quarters ofan hour but also to have answers to questions on notice incorporated in Hansard for the remainder of the session. 
(2.41) - Following the comments made by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy).  I do not want to canvass the Bill. Beyond a shadow of a doubt it is a tremendously important Bill. It is to establish a monopolies commission and for purposes connected therewith. But I want to refer to the points made by  Senator 
Murphy. I put under challenge, in a very brief way, the proposition that he has put, to the effect that this Bill is evidence of insincerity on the part of the Government in the sense that the Government has put down a Bill knowing that the Parliament will be dissolved and that that, in fact, will be the end of the Bill because it will disappear. This denies the ultimate paragraph of the second reading speech where it was pointed out - I thought very properly - by the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood),  who was handling the matter, that the Government believes that the measure should not be passed through the Parliament without there being an adequate period for those affected by its provisions to study the Bill. Therefore, the Bill will remain on the table of the Senate; it will be a parliamentary document. The Parliament will rise shortly. Looking into the crystal ball, we cannot quite see when it will rise, but it will certainly be not later than 2nd November. That means that if the Parliament is dissolved on 2nd November we would need to lift by next Wednesday. 
I and the Government do not accept the proposition that because the Bill has been put down here, this is a form of window dressing. This Bill could affect the whole structure of the Australian economy. The Government is saying that it has put down not only the second reading speech but also the Bill and that in the intervening period until Parliament assembles next year - and again who knows when that will be, but taking a potshot I would think that it would be in February of next year - there will be an opportunity for the whole of this nation to look at the Bill and examine it. I think that is a commendable approach. We are not creating a precedent by doing this. If I remember correctly, I think that in regard to the uniform divorce law - that is one matter of which I can think, and there may be others - a Bill, with all its complications, was put down, because it was going to affect the social life and the welfare of the nation, so that it could be examined by the people who were competent to examine it and to reflect upon it. That is what is being done now. 
A tremendously important Bill has been put down. Certainly it will be removed  from the business paper when the Parliament is dissolved, but at least the Government's intention is clear. It has said: 'This is the Bill that we propose to introduce if we are returned to power.' It is unlikely that there will be a change of government, but we do not know what the future will bring. In any event, the incoming government will have the advantage of a Bill. Those in the community concerned with the economy will have an opportunity to examine this proposal and will be in a position to put to the government, whichever party is in power, its views on the proposals. The Government does not accept the argument that because it has put a Bill down in the last week of the sitting it is window dressing. I think it is a very courageous act to let the world know what the implications are for Australia and the economy of Australia in 1973 and the years to follow. I ask leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
(3.34) - 1 move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
It is with considerable satisfaction that I introduce this Bill to amend the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Acts 1971. This satisfaction derives from the fact that the legislation goes far beyond the improvements foreshadowed by the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  in the Budget Speech. Indeed, for the Commonwealth, we propose to break entirely new ground. 
The main purpose of this Bill is to provide for the payment of compensation at the rate of full sick pay to Commonwealth employees during total incapacity following a compensable injury. The payment will be made at this rate for the first 26 weeks of a period or of the aggregate of periods up to 26 weeks in respect of any one injury. Honourable senators will recall that 'injury' in the relevant context of the Act - that is in section 29 - carries an expanded meaning and includes the contraction of a disease or the aggravation, acceleration or recurrence of a disease. They will also be aware that the Act applies to the employees of prescribed authorities of the Commonwealth and to other classes of persons who are not strictly employees. Examples of these latter classes of persons are holders of statutory offices and prescribed classes of persons such as school cadets and persons who render voluntary assistance to the Commonwealth. Altogether the Acts apply to more than 425,000 persons. The Acts are also of world wide application and cover employees in some 70 Commonwealth posts scattered around the globe. 
The Act which came fully into operation only on 1st September 1971 constituted a complete compensation code and replaced an Act that, with amendments, had been in operation since 1930. This new compensation code was vastly more beneficial than the legislation which it replaced and I am pleased to report to the Senate that it was brought into effect smoothly and without disruption to the then existing case load. 
The amending Bill now before the Senate marks a further significant breakthrough in this field of benevolent legislation. The compensation that will be payable to a totally incapacitated employee for the first 26 weeks of a period or of the periods aggregating 26 weeks will be at the full sick pay rate that would be payable to him apart from the compensation legislation. At the conclusion of the 26 weeks the employee will be entitled to weekly compensation payments at the increased weekly rates provided by this amending legislation. By utilising a proportion of any sick leave credit available to him the employee may then build up the weekly compensation payment during this subsequent period to the rate he would have received as sick pay had compensation not been paid. If an employee's conditions of employment do not provide for sick pay, the rate of compensation payable during the first 26 weeks period or aggregate of periods to which I have referred will be at a rate equal to his basic earnings for the work he would have performed but for the injury. 
Of next importance to the adoption of the full pay principle, the Bill makes substantial increases in existing monetary benefits. These monetary benefits were last increased on 25th May 1971 and were then incorporated in the new compensation code when it became fully operative on 1st September last year. The new code included additional benefits and these rates are also increased by this Bill which, in addition, provides for some machinery amendments of a minor nature. 
Under the Bill the basic lump sum payable to dependents upon the death of an employee is being increased from $13,500 to 514,500. A corresponding increase from $13,500 to $14,500 will be made in respect of the maximum lump sum payment for the more serious scheduled injuries. Lump sum payments for the less serious scheduled injuries will be proportionately increased as will those in respect of loss of the genitals, the permanent loss of the capacity to engage in sexual intercourse, facial disfigurement and total loss of the sense of taste or smell. 
Following the period for which full sick pay is payable the Bill provides for the weekly payment in total incapacity cases to be increased from $35 to $43 for a single employee, an increase of 23 per cent. The latter amount will be supplemented by $11 a week for a dependent spouse in lieu of $8.50 a week as at present. This is an increase of 29 per cent. A further $5 a week remains payable for each dependent child. Where an employee requires the constant assistance of an attendant, the weekly amount of $8 payable to him will be increased to $9. The present limitation of $150 in any one case in respect of provision or modification of certain aids, appliances and equipment will be increased to $350. 
I come now to the more important of the machinery amendments included in the Bill. For accuracy in interpreting the word overtime' when determining average weekly earnings of an employee, the term will be defined to include shift duty, weekend duty, holiday duty and excess travelling time. The Bill amends the provision which excludes seamen from the application of the Act and ensures that such seamen to whom the Seamen's Compensation Act does not apply are covered by the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Act if they are employees within the meaning of this Act. As a consequence of this amendment, it has been necessary to include transitional provisions in the Bill to ensure that any cases unintentionally excluded from the application of the principal Act at the date of its proclamation on 1st September 1971 are now brought within the scope of the Act, rather than remain indefinitely under the ex gratia approval which was extended to such cases as an interim measure. 
The transitional provisions also provide that between a period commencing on the proclaimed date of the principal Act and ending immediately before royal assent is given to this amending legislation, that is, during the transitional period, anything that was done by, on behalf of, to or in relation to, such a seaman as a claimant for compensation has effect as if it was done under the principal Act. Among other things, this has the effect of restoring to any seamen involved, all rights accruing under the Act, including the rights to have their cases referred to a compensation tribunal or to make application to a prescribed court for judicial review of their claims. 
The Act now provides that attendances at certain places are to be regarded as employment for the purposes of attracting compensation cover. This Bill now ensures that cover is extended to employees at living accommodation such as PMG work camps, where the place of employment is geographically situated outside such living accommodation at which employees are required by their employment to reside. Also, the Bill remedies the situation under the Act where an employee though properly excluded from cover during his attendance at his own separate living accommodation, such as married quarters, is not so excluded during his attendance at the separate living accommodation of another employee. 
One other minor change will be made where civil damages awarded are reduced because of contributory negligence on the part of the employee. The Act provides that in these cases the amount of compensation recoverable from damages should be reduced in the same proportion as the damages were reduced. The intention was that the amount of compensation to be recovered from damages should not exceed the amount of the damages recovered. However, the Act does not correctly apply this principle and could place some cases where there was no contributory negligence in a less favourable position than other similar cases where there was contributory negligence on the part of the employee. The Bill removes this anomaly. The increases in the rates of monetary benefits, to which I have referred, will apply from the date of the royal assent. 

 Mr President, in little over 16 months this Parliament has completely remodelled the scheme of Commonwealth employees' compensation. Perhaps, more correctly, I should say we have created an entirely new scheme. The introduction of full sick pay during a period of total incapacity is the rounding off of what was already a most comprehensive code. I have heard voices raised to the effect that there will be no incentive for an injured worker to return to work. 1 would point out to the Senate that last year we wrote into the legislation, provisions covering rehabilitation and vocational training. These will play their part in restoring injured employees to their maximum working capacities. In any event I have confidence in the integrity of our Commonwealth employees and of the medical profession to ensure that no unfair advantage is taken of the very generous provisions the Government is asking the Parliament to adopt.  Mr President,  I commend the Bill to the Senate and trust that it will be given a speedy passage. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Bishop)  adjourned. 
My role now is to close the debate. The Senate will then vote on the amendment moved by  Senator Wriedt.  By an odd circumstance the 2 senators who immediately preceded me in this debate have had a similar experience to mine. As honourable senators are aware I made the Budget Speech on behalf of the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  on the night of 15th August. I was very ill at the time I made that speech and immediately afterwards I was out of action and spent an extensive period in hospital and recuperating. However, I had an opportunity to look at what was said in the debate when I was allowed to come back and do some private homework on the matter. The odd circumstance that I mentioned is that both  Senator Georges  and  Senator Poyser  were overseas on Government business at that time. 
I concur completely in  Senator Poyser's  view about Australian officers in our overseas posts. In my ministerial capacity relating to the Department of Customs and Excise, the Department of Supply and now the Department of Health I have had occasion to visit overseas ports while under tremendous pressure and with very tight schedules; I, too, took my wife with me on those occasions. We were both tremendously impressed wherever we went with the devotion and dedication of the Australian officers in the overseas posts. They are the kind of Australians we would want them to be; they have a complete sense of duty and responsibility and the only politics they have are the best interests of Australia. I would like to agree with  Senator Poyser  on another matter also because I shall have to disagree with him on still another, though not in an aggressive way. I concur in what he has said about the role of the Senate and the facilities provided for senators. I have been Leader of the Government in the Senate for 4 years during which time the Government has not had the numbers in the Senate, and it has not been an easy task. The change in the function and the role of the Senate was just beginning to occur before I succeeded to the leadership. The function and role have altered significantly and tremendously to the stage where the Senate is taking on a role which is somewhat similar to, though not of the magnitude of, the United States Senate. As Senatory Poyser has said, we do not have the facilities which the United States Senate has, we do not receive the emoluments which United States Senators receive and we are not provided with the services which they get, and, in fact, our role constitutionally is different from that of the United States Senate. Nevertheless, in the fields of committee work we have been able to study things which the other House could never hope to put to study. That House is more a debating or political House, though, true, it is the executive House. In this Senate however, we have so planned our function as a Senate, as we are able to through our committees, and to do research which one could not expect members of the other House to do because of their constituency problems. A senator's constituency is a much wider horizon; it is one or other of the 6 States. We have been able to undertake functions which have tremendously increased our stature and our burdens and responsibilities. However, I do not think that our facilities have kept pace with the work that we are doing. In the debating sense people have said they like to listen to the Senate because we debate a Bill sometimes clause by clause; we debate it in the particularity whereas members in the other place are more concerned with the principle. The other place has the magnificent procedure of moving to the third reading of a Bill forthwith, which is something I would sometimes like to do here, though I would not dare to try to do it too often. 
I have agreed with  Senator Poyser  on certain points that he raised but I cannot support him when he names a  Mr Chamberlain  as an authority in relation to criticism of the Government. I like  Mr Chamberlain  only when I hear him broadcasting long-play records from a radio station. But as for his political views - and he holds them very strongly and is of course entitled to them - I would not like to take him as a guide for judgment of those issues. However, I repeat that he arranges magnificent musical programmes on Sunday nights. 
Having said that I would like quickly to close the debate so that I can get a vote on it, then put the Appropriation Bills down and secure passage of them. The fact is that far from the Budget being bribery of the electors, as  Senator Poyser  described it, though I appreciate he used that description in the broad political sense, the whole basis of the Budget was to stimulate the economy. We have heard a good deal of talk about the economic factors and the needs on the employment side. The whole basis of the Government's consideration was to stimulate the economy and I think that one of the most effective ways by which the Budget has been able to stimulate the economy is in the taxation field. The Government had international monetary problems to deal with and as a consequence of those international economic problems with which we were confronted there was some slack in the economy which it was necessary to deal with. I do not think even our worst enemy would deny that as a result of the budgetary measures that have been put down there has been a significant movement in the economy, a stimulation and greater confidence and greater security in the community. If that means, in the language of  Senator Poyser,  political bribery, then it is not my understanding of the meaning of it. I think this is a good Budget. The key stimulus in the current Budget comes from the very large taxation concessions and the substantial increases in social welfare benefits which it contains. Will anybody say that those social welfare proposals were not wise? I am bound to say that the Opposition has co-operated in the passage of the Bills relating to the Budget, and those Bills have had a tremendous effect in the development, security and improvement of the economic scene. The taxation concessions will be a cost to revenue of $436m in 1972-73 and$586m in a full year. This will add substantially to the disposable income in Australia. Of course there have been wide-ranging concessions in the personal income tax field. These concessions will reduce the amount of taxation collected by $432m. This money will go into the pockets of individuals. In a full year this will amount to $566m. We are bringing about a reconstruction in the taxation field. I know that during the many years I have been in this chamber constant demands have been made of us in debate for the reconstruction of the taxation tables. I think that this move by the Government is a breakthrough. It is not the end of the matter - far be it. But at least it is a step along the road to the restructuring of the taxation tables. 
Is anybody going to say that what the Government has done in relation to estate duty tax - this has been debated here many times - is not a worthwhile reform? The Government's proposal has meant a doubling of the statutory exemption from duty. Again this is not the end of the road, but at least it is a breakthrough and the people of Australia recognise it as such. In relation to gift duty there have been concessions. The level of exemption from gift duty has been extended from$4,000 to $10,000. This is a significant thing to do in a single Budget. I do not want to traverse the social and repatriation benefits. We have undertaken to remove the means test during the life of a Parliament. We have made a dramatic move towards that in this Budget. I say that the test of what we have done lies in the rewards that are gained. If there are political rewards - any government would be less than human if it did not say that there could be some hope of political reward - they are only transitory. The big reward is to the economy of Australia and in the fact that we will have a happier, better and more economically sound Australia. That is the ultimate test that any man, honourable senator, Minis ter, Prime Minister or any person who comes to the Parliament has to make a final judgment upon. 
In my own field there are nursing home benefits. We will probably deal with a Bill tomorrow in relation to this matter. I have had indications that the Opposition will support the Bill. It gives additional benefits to try to assist in the nursing home field. I will not canvass those benefits now because we will be dealing with them tomorrow. All I say in conclusion is that this Budget has been pitched to stimulate the economy. As we walk out of this place into Kings Hall and on to the highways and byways we see evidence of this and when we speak to people we hear evidence of it. I believe that this is what the people of Australia want. I am sure that they are aware that what they are getting is in the best interests of Australia. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be added  (Senator Wriedt's amendment)  be added. 
Pursuant to section 6 of the National Fitness Act 1941, I present the annual report on national fitness activities for the year ended 31st December 1971. 
(4.47) - I thank  Senator Wilkinson  and the Opposition for their co-operation in the passage of the Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
(4.45) - I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I ask the indulgence of the Senate to have  the second reading speech incorporated in Hansard. 
(4.54) - I wish to respond to the remarks of the honourable senator. I would like to push on with this matter with your cooperation,  Mr Temporary Chairman.  I can say that the point the honourable senator has made will be brought to the attention of the appropriate authorities. I think that it will be more in the ecology and environmental field. However, having regard to all the factors I can say that the levels of use of these fertilisers in Australia are much lower than the levels of use in the United 
States of America. The honourable senator's point has some validity and I think that in the long term it would need to be looked at. To a degree, it becomes a matter of personal judgment. I will see that this point that has been raised by  Senator Primmer  is referred to the appropriate department. 
(5.7)- I rise to-- 
I table a document relating to the application of the common fee up to 30th June 1972 and a statement associated with the document. 
(11.11)- I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to appropriate the amounts required for expenditure in 1972-73 from the Consolidated Revenue Fund other than those amounts provided by special appropriations and the Appropriation Bill (No. 2) 1972-73. The amounts sought for each department are shownin detail in the second Schedule to the Bill, the sum of these appropriations being $3,242,044,000. This Bill seeks an authorisation of $1,924,254,000, the balance of $1,31 7,790,000 having already been authorised under the Supply Act (No. 1) 1972- 73. 
The expenditure proposals of the Government were outlined in the Budget speech and the Schedule to this Bill is the same as that contained in the document Particulars of Proposed Expenditure for the Service of the Year Ending 30th June 1973' which was referred on 14th September to the Senate Estimates Committees for examination and report. I commend the bill to honourable senators. 
(11.15)- I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to provide for expenditure from the Consolidated Revenue Fund in 1972-73 on: The construction of public works and buildings; the acquisition of sites and buildings; advances and loans; items of plant and equipment which are clearly definable as capital expenditure; grants to the States under section 96 of the Constitution; and new policies not authorised by special legislation. 
Details of the amounts sought by each department are shown in the Second Schedule to the Bill, the sum of these appropriations being $861,386,000. Of this $370,594,000 was authorised by the Supply Act (No. 2) 1972-73; the balance of $490,792,000 being authorised by this Bill. 
The main features of the proposed expenditure were outlined in the Budget Speech. The Schedule to the Bill is the same as that contained in the document Particulars of Proposed Provision for Certain Expenditure in Respect of the Year 
Ending 30th June 1973' which was referred on 14th September to the Senate Estimates Committees for examination and report. I commend the Bill to honourable senators. 
On behalf of the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon),  I table a document a copy of which has been supplied to the Leader for the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Murphy).  The document relates to powers over and protection offered to witnesses who appear before parliamentary committees. 
I seek leave to incorporate a statement which was made in the other place by the Prime Minister. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The statement read as follows) - 
The paper I have just tabled has been prepared by the 2 chief law officers of the Crown, the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  and the Solicitor-General. It is entitled 'Powers Over and Protection Offered to Witnesses Before Parliamentary Committees'. In May 1971, at a time of great public interest in the subject, I requested the Attorney-General to prepare a paper on the parliamentary committee system which would give particular attention to the constitutional position and the provision of guidelines for the protection of witnesses. The comprehensive paper I have just tabled was prepared by the Attorney in collaboration with the Solicitor-General. 
Its purpose is to discuss the power of inquiry of committees appointed by Houses of the Parliament, and the rights and duties of witnesses appearing before those committees. The paper also considers whether there are any additional steps which might be taken to safeguard the interests of witnesses and of persons named in evidence before the committees. The Government has not yet had an opportunity to consider the position as disclosed by the paper or the suggestions made for possible changes. However, in view of the great importance of the subject, the Government has decided that the paper should now be tabled, so that it can be studied by members of the Parliament and the public. As I conclude, I want to express to the Attorney-General and the Solicitor-General my appreciation, which I am sure will be shared by all who read the paper, of the comprehensiveness of the paper and of the very considerable amount of time, effort, skill and learning which has gone into its preparation. 
I lay on the table of the Senate a statement made by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  in the House of Representatives today. It is headed 'Defence Forces Retirement Benefits'. I ask for leave to have it incorporated in Hansard. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 
I am now able to inform the House of the outcome of the Government's consideration of the report of the Joint Select Committee on Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Legislation tabled in the House on 18th May 1972 by the  Chairman  of the Committee, the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess).  Honourable members will recall that the Committee was formed in September 1970. It quickly embarked on a wide-ranging inquiry in the course of which it received 459 written submissions from individuals, departments and organisations and heard evidence from 65 witnesses in Victoria, New South Wales, Queensland and the Australian Capital Territory. The main recommendation of the Committee was the introduction of a completely new scheme to replace the existing pre-1959 and post-1959 DFRB schemes. The DFRB scheme has now been in existence for 24 years. It commenced in 1948 after an inquiry by an inter-depart mental committee under the chairmanship of the honourable J. J. Dedman, then Minister for Defence. 
The original scheme, which had much in common with the Commonwealth superannuation scheme, proved to be very inflexible in operation and in 1957 a committee chaired by  Sir John  Allison was appointed to renew it. The result was the establishment in 1959 of a new and quite different type of scheme to apply to future members. This is the scheme now known as the post-1959 scheme. Existing members were not transferred on to the new basis: Instead, special arrangements were made that preserved for them their accrued rights and established a basis for them to contribute for additional benefits as they arose. These arrangements, which were significantly modified in 1965 to permit members to limit their contributions, are now known as the pre-1959 scheme. The pre-1959 scheme is most complex and has attracted a great deal of criticism. About 12,000 of the present DFRB membership of around 80,000 still contribute on this basis and the great majority of present pensioners were pre-1969 members. The pre-1959 element of the DFRB fund is, however, in a most buoyant position. The report of the Commonwealth Actuary on his fourth quinquennial' investigation, which the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  received from the DFRB Board earlier this week, discloses that on the basis of the DFRB scheme continuing in its present form, and I emphasise that proviso, there was an available surplus of $ 14.9m as at 30th June 1969 in respect of around 19,000 pre-1959 contributors and pensioners. The post- 1959 element of the fund, on the other hand, was approximately in balance, there being a small deficiency of little importance in actuarial terms. The Treasurer will table the reports of the Actuary and the DFRB Board on the fourth quinquennial investigation later today. 
The post- 1959 scheme is simpler than the very complex pre-1959 scheme, but the Jess Committee concluded that it is still unnecessarily complex. It has 2 distinct parts, one covering other rank members, the other officer members. Each contributor pays throughout his service a fixed percentage rate of contribution which varies with his rank and age at entry. The percentage rates range from 4.75 per cent for entry at 15 or less to a maximum of 6 per cent for other rank members entering at age 30 or more and a maximum of 12i per cent for officers entering at age 37 or more. Only service from age 20 onwards counts for pension purposes but both officer and other rank members who enter before that age pay lower rates of contribution. The difference between the maximum contribution rates for other ranks and officers reflects the different bases on which other rank and officer pensions are assessed. The other rank pension is determined by length of service while the officer pension is determined by age at retirement, the maximum in both instances being a pension approximating 70 per cent of final pay, although the maximum tapers down to around 60 per cent for the most senior officers as in the superannuation scheme. Both the pre-1959 and post-1959 schemes are actuarially based and members' contributions are retained in an invested fund. The earning rate of this fund has increased rapidly in recent years; the estimated earning rate for the year ended 30th June 1972 is 6.58 per cent which would be an increase of 0.24 per cent over the rate for 1970-71. 
The Jess Committee recommended that the present fund be transferred to the Commonwealth, that members' contributions in future be paid to Consolidated Revenue and that the Commonwealth guarantee the benefits provided and meet all costs not covered by members' contributions. In the new scheme recommended by the Committee, the contribution rate would be a flat 5.5 per cent of pay for all members and the level of pensions would be determined for both officers and other ranks by length of service. All service, including service before age 20, would count for pension purposes and pensions would range from 35 per cent of final pay after 20 years' service to 76.5 per cent of pay after 40 years. Officers, like other rank members, would be entitled to a pension on completion of 20 years' service, but a pension reduction penalty of 5 per cent would apply for each uncompleted year of service if an officer were retired at his own request before he reached his retiring age for rank or an other rank member before the end of his engagement. 
The Committee also recommended that after retirement the whole of a member's pension be adjusted annually to maintain relativity with average weekly earnings. The Committee said that a possible method of achieving this would be to maintain the relativity of benefits to current pay for the rank held on retirement. Other recommendations include desirable extensions and improvements to provisions that exist in the present scheme. The Jess Committee was rightly concerned to seek to avoid complexities in the future operation of the DFRB scheme. For this reason, the Committee concluded that all present contributors should be compulsorily transferred to the new scheme and that they should not be offered a choice of remaining in thenpresent scheme. 
The Government is attracted to the concept of a simple, comprehensible scheme as outlined by the Jess Committee, but, in a letter to the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn),  the Committee expressed the strong opinion that if any of the Committee's recommendations were detrimental to any section of existing contributors special short term arrangements should be made to ensure that no detriment occurred. The Government accepted this view and on 20th September last the Minister for Defence announced that no-one would be disadvantaged by participating in the new scheme; that everybody would have a right of election to ensure that by participating he would not be disadvantaged. This inevitably raised the question whether it would be possible to make this assurance effective without introducing a third DFRB scheme to supplement the pre-1959 and post-1959 scheme. The Government has no desire to do so. 
There have been strong representations on behalf of post-1959 late entrant officers. There have also been representations on behalf of those pre-1959 contributors who have taken the opportunity available to them of limiting their contributions and receiving, without increasing the level of their contributions further, the Commonwealth element of future accruing pension entitlements. The crucial point, therefore, is whether it is practicable to transfer in an equitable way the pre-1959 and post-1959 contributors to such a new scheme, without detriment to any one of them. We shall have an independent expert examination of this problem. One supplementary suggestion from the Jess Committee related to late entry officers. The number involved is significant. At 30th June 1972 there were 3516 officer members who entered at age 23 or later; 773 officers entered at age 33 or later. Because of the change in the basis for officers' pension, to length of service in the Jess Committee scheme, many of these late entrant officers would have a lower pension entitlement. The Jess Committee in a letter to the Minister for Defence recommended that these officers, in addition to receiving the surplus of their contributions above  5i  per cent of salary, should be allowed to purchase back notional service to bring the pension they would be contributing for under the Jess scheme up to the level for which they were contributing under the post-1959 scheme. This proposal is being actively investigated. 
The Government like the Jess Committee is attracted to the concept of a simple, comprehensible scheme, provided it is possible to transfer the existing pre- 1959 and post-1959 contributors to the new scheme without detriment. This is strongly favoured by the Services. But if the Government's assurance of transfer without detriment should prove to be impracticable, the Government has decided that it would instead incorporate many of the recommendations of the Jess Committee in an improved version of the post-1959 scheme to which pre-1959 contributors would be given the opportunity of transfer on an equitable basis. In any event, the following 7 specific recommendations of the Committee have been accepted by the Government: 
Marriages of pensioners before age 60 will be recognised for widows' pension purposes. 
A dependent spouse of a female member or pensioner will be entitled to pension on her death. 
Subject to conditions yet to be determined, de facto spouses and illegitimate children will be recognised for pension purposes. 
Children's benefits payable to students will be continued until age 25. 
There will be payable to the estate of a contributor or pensioner, who dies without leaving dependants entitled to pension, an amount equal to one and one-half times his contributions less, in the case of a pensioner, any pension or other benefits received. 
The tapering of the entitlements of more senior officers will be eliminated. 
A retiring member will not be penalised by reason of his refusing to sign on to a reserve force. 
The Government has also adopted in a modified form 6 other recommendations of the Jess Committee: 
An officer will be able to retire on pension before reaching his designated retiring age on completion of 20 years' service for DFRB purposes. 
The present category structure will be eliminated. Contribution rates will be expressed as a percentage of pay for DFRB purposes and pensions as a percentage of final pay. 
For members who enter at age 20, retirement pensions will range from 35 per cent of final pay at age 40 to 70 per cent at age 57 or later. 
A retired member will have an unfettered right within a specified period of retirement, say 12 months, to commute up to the existing one-third of his pension, other than an invalidity pension. The amount of the commuted sum will be determined on an appropriate annuity basis. 
Appropriate provision will be made for the purchase of past non-contributory service by present serving members including those members who in 1948 elected to remain on deferred pay rather than enter the DFRB scheme. 
The concept of an appeals tribunal has been acepted 
As I have earlier explained, the Jess Committee recommended that DFRB pensions be adjusted annually after retirement to maintain relativity with average weekly earnings and mentioned a possible method of doing this. We have concluded that the issue of post retirement pension adjustments cannot be dealt with in the DFRB context alone. In the past, DFRB pensions have been adjusted at the same time and on the same basis as Commonwealth superannuation pensions and similar adjustment principles have been applied to other Commonwealth superannuationtype pensions. 
The House will recall that last year the Treasurer in his Budget Speech announced that the Government was investigating alternative methods of adjusting DFRB and superannuation pensions. We have now decided to refer this important issue to independent expert investigation. This investigation will be called upon to report on various methods of adjusting pensions for which the Commonwealth is responsible and the inter-relationships of the various schemes and how they might be affected by the various adjustment methods. Additionally, the investigation will report on the economic and financial effects of the various methods considered. 
The personnel members of the Navy, Army and Air Boards have all agreed that it is premature at this stage to press for an annual updating of DFRB pensions in the light of the other schemes needing similar consideration. Children's and orphan's pensions in both the DFRB and superannuation schemes are expressed as fixed amounts, although there is an alternative basis for assessing orphans' pensions. The manner of determining children's and orphans' pensions in the DFRB and superannuation schemes is at present under consideration and any decisions taken will be incorporated in whatever scheme emerges. 
We have also given careful consideration to the Committee's recommendation that the DFRB scheme be administered by the Department of Defence and that the Minister for Defence should be the responsible Minister. The Government is satisfied that the present arrangement of the one organisation - the office of the superannuation and DFRB Boards - servicing both the DFRB and superannuation schemes, is effective and results in significant economies  through  the common use of highly specialised staff and facilities. There is also a clear need for co-ordination of policy in relation to the main Commonwealth contributory superannuation schemes, namely, the DFRB scheme, the superannuation scheme, the schemes of the Commonwealth Banking Corporation and the Reserve Bank and the parliamentary and ministerial retiring allowances schemes. In the Government's view, this is at present facilitated by one Minister, the Treasurer, having responsibilities in relation to all 6 schemes. 
Another important recommendation of the Jess Committee was that the present invested fund of members' contributions, which stood at$1 54m at 30th June 1972, be transferred to the Commonwealth and contributions of members in future be paid to Consolidated Revenue. I referred earlier to the improvement in the earning rate of the DFRB fund. An invested fund is likely in the long term to return earnings at a level that enables members' contributions to provide greater support for benefits than would otherwise be the case. Accordingly, the DFRB fund will be retained. The Government has, however, decided that the investment powers relating to this fund and the superannuation fund should be widened so that up to 25 per cent of each fund can be invested in shares, debentures, real property, and in loans to building societies. The Government proposes also to establish an investment trust to handle the investment of the 2 funds. The Government is working towards the necessary amending legisation being ready for introduction in the autumn sittings next year. As already announced, the legislation will operate from 1st October 1972. We believe that the improvements that will be effected by the legislation will simplify the present arrangements and result in a very much better DFRB scheme. 
(8.14) - Perhaps 1 should give the information that I have. I point out that I am not a lawyer and that I cannot interpret legislation as lawyers do. I also do not have the Income Tax Assessment Act in front of me. But I can at least give the information which was supplied to me by the Department of the Treasury adverting to the point made by  Senator Cavanagh.  I feel that it is really the only contribution I can make to the point which has been raised. Section 14 of the Income Tax Assessment Act imposes a duty on the Commissioner of Taxation to furnish an annual report to the Treasurer for presentation to the Parliament in which he is required to draw attention to any breaches or evasions of the Act which have come under notice. The secrecy provisions of the law prohibit disclosures by the Commissioner of information concerning the income tax affairs of any taxpayer. The restriction does not, however, apply to a disclosure made by the Commissioner in the performance of his duty - for example, in making his annual report to the Treasurer. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONSection 14. I am giving an interpretive explanation of information I sought and was given on this matter. In the annual report certain criteria are adopted so as to limit the reporting of taxpayers by name to cases of breaches or evasions in which fairly substantial penalties have been imposed. With minor cases being reported, in summary form the criteria are as follows: Firstly, the taxpayer has understated his taxable income; secondly, he has not voluntarily made a true and full disclosure of the unstated taxable income; thirdly, the amount of statutory additional tax charged after any remission exceeds $500 and the total additional tax is more than 25 per cent of the tax avoided; and, fourthly, the case has reached (finality in the sense that the taxpayer has exhausted all his rights of objection and appeal. 
Without exception every case involving avoidance of tax arising out of a breach or evasion is included by name in the annual report if it comes within the criteria to which I have referred. It is emphasised, however, that the only cases that are or can be reported are those where there has  been a breach or evasion. Tax saving agreements or arrangements are, of course, entered into by some taxpayers to lower the incidence of tax that might otherwise be payable, but are at the same time legally valid and hence do not give rise to breaches or evasions of the Act. These may loosely be described as cases of legal tax avoidance. Because they are within the law and do not involve any understatements of taxable income or the imposition of penalties they do not fall within the classes which are required to be reported to Parliament. 
No, that is not correct. We set out to meet the convenience of honourable senators by doing so, but then it was agreed that the Committee of the Whole should deal with the departments concerned one by one. We have already dealt with the Department of Health, the Parliament and the Prime Minister's Department. We are now dealing with the Department of the Treasury. 
(8.31)  -  I cannot add a great deal because, as I said earlier, I am not competent to do so and I do not think it is appropriate for us to be getting into a debate on the interpretation of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936-1971. But  Senator Cavanagh  has made a point about his understanding of what the Act means, as has  Senator Georges,  and very properly that goes into the record and very properly it will be picked up by the appropriate authorities, considered, analysed and assessed. Indeed, it will be placed under the microscope to ascertain whether there is, as  Senator Cavanagh  has said, some vagueness in the interpretation of the Act, particularly in relation to sections 14 and 16. I propose to read part of section 16 but I will not attempt to place an interpretation on it. Section 16 (1.) states: 
For the purposes of this section, 'officer' means a person who is or has been appointed or employed by the Commonwealth or by a State, and who by reason of that appointment or employment, or in the course of that employment, may acquire or has acquired information respecting the affairs . . . 
As I read that and as my advisers have said to me from a quick look at the matter, there is no doubt that that definition includes the Commissioner. Then subsection (5a) of section 16 states: 
For the purposes of sub-sections (2.) and (5.) of this section, an officer or person shall be deemed to have communicated such information to another person in contravention of those subsections if he communicates that information to any Minister. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONAnd an officer means the Commissioner. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThat is right. I am not a lawyer, nor is  Senator Cavanagh.  I know that he likes to put these matters up for study.  Senator Cavanagh  and  Senator Georges  have made points in relation to their interpretation of the Act. All I can promise is to see that the points they have made are referred for study to the appropriate people associated with the Acts of Parliament. 
Pursuant to the provisions of the 
Services Trust Funds Act 1947-1950 I present the annual reports of the Australian Military Forces Relief Trust Fund, the Royal Australian Navy Relief Trust Fund and the Royal Australian Air Force Welfare Trust Fund for the year ended 30th June 1972, together with the reports of the Auditor-General on the books and accounts of the funds. 
Ordered that the papers by printed. 
(10.18) - For the reasonsI have given on the last 3 mornings the Government will resist the motion: 
Question put: 
That the motion  (Senator Murphy's)  be agreed to. 
The Senate divided- (The  President  -  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack) 
Ayes .. .. ..21 
Noes . .  . . 26 
Majority . .  . . 5 

<graphic href="054232197210273_2_1_3_P.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="054232197210273_2_1_1_A.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="054232197210273_2_1_2_N.jpg"></graphic>

Question so resolved in the negative. 
(4.18)  -  I point out that when the Parliament is asembled the committees will have to be reappointed anyway. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
(4.3)  -  in reply - I thank the official Opposition and the Democratic Labor Party for their co-operation in the passage of this Bill. I would like to say to  Senator Douglas  McClelland that I recognise, as he has pointed out, that whilst this very comprehensive Bill covers the whole area of what we are attempting to do, of necessity there will be administrative matters that will have to be resolved because, as  Senator Douglas  McClelland said, this Bill is interrelated with other legislation. The spirit of the fundamental principles are expressed in the Bill. It is sure that, from our experience in the application of the fundamental principles that are expressed in the Bill, we will have to look at aspects where there might be obvious duplications. This is a challenge for the Government. I can assure the honourable senator that I or my successor as Minister for Health will meet it. The officers in the Department of Health are dedicated people and they will give a great amount of guidance and help to the Minister. 

 Senator Douglas McClelland said that the basis of the scheme was that, to attract benefits, a nursing home would have to establish what fees were being paid as at 30th June this year. As the honourable senator knows, nursing homes already attract a benefit of $3.50 or $6.50 a day. This scheme will be supplementary to that. What we had to do in the sheer logic of the thing was to ensure that the additional benefit provided under this legislation would not be absorbed by an increase in charges following its provision. Consequently this provision has had to be included in the legislation. In fairness it should be pointed out that there is an opportunity for any organisation, whether it be a charitable one or one run for profit, conducting a nursing home to claim that it has a case for an increase because of, say, a new award being given to its employees or something of that nature. The legislation provides that a nursing home can seek to obtain a variation. If the Department says: 'No, we are not prepared to grant a variation' there is provision in the legislation for appeal to an independent tribunal. I think that is completely equitable. But we could not simply say, as would have been the case with respect to New South Wales which was mentioned by  Senator Douglas  McClelland, that we would agree to an increase of $10.50 a week. In Victoria the extraordinaty situation is that an additional $22.40 a week is involved. We just could not do that against the risk that the person we were seeking to help would get the real benefit of any assistance we provided. 
Pensioners represent about 85 per cent of the people who are in nursing homes. What has happened in the past is that a great proportion of a person's pension has gone towards his nursing home care. One of the most wonderful things about this legislation is that we have included a provision in it to the effect that, after a contribution has been made out of his pension, a pensioner will still have of the order of $6 with which to buy the things he wants to buy, whether they be certain personal things, some extra comforts or things that normally he would like to have while he is in a nursing home. It has been very heartening to me, as the Minister for Health, and the Department of Health to be able to bring this legislation forward and obtain not only in this chamber but also in the other place unanimous support for this concept. 
Reference was made by  Senator Douglas  McClelland to domiciliary care, which is to be of the order of S14 a week. We all know the theory behind this. Many people like to keep their loved ones with them. Even though they qualify under normal circumstances for nursing home care, many people like to keep their own folk at home as long as they can. In terms of the economy of the thing, very often they have not been able to do so in the past because they could not afford it, despite all the love and affection they have for their loved ones. We decided to provide assistance in respect to domiciliary care because not only do we think that the humanity of the situation is so critical but also because it will help in relation to overcoming the overall problems of nursing homes and ultimately hospitals. It will help to relieve the pressure that is on hospitals at present. In this modern day and age hospitals do not like to have long term patients. When they do get long term patients they tend to move them into nursing homes. This is particularly so in hospitals which specialise in surgery. This legislation will help in that direction. 
In response to the question asked of me by  Senator Douglas  McClelland, I wish to say that it is not intended that in normal circumstances departmental medical officers will go beyond the medical certificate from the patient's own doctor. However, regard will be had to other circumstances as well as the medical condition of the patient where the patient can be better looked after in an institution than in a nursing home or if facilities are available in the patient's own home. In the latter case the person looking after the patient would be advised to apply for domiciliary nursing care benefit. In no circumstances will an alternative arrangement be proposed without a process of consultation with the patient's own doctor. Right throughout this Bill, even though there has to be support from the departmental doctor the primary message is - I used these words in my second reading speech, as I recall it - that it should be the patient's own doctor in the first place because he is the one who knows the case, he knows the person, he knows the humanities involved and all the circumstances related to the case. That is the formality of the test. That  relates to nursing home admission. In relation to domiciliary nursing care approval, it is not intended that in ordinary circumstances departmental medical officers in considering an application for approval for domiciliary nursing care will go beyond the medical certificate. 
Yes. It is the medical certificate from the patient's own doctor. Regard will be had, however, to all circumstances but no application will be refused in respect of medical criteria without a process of consultation. Again we come back to the patient's own doctor. In the case of an appeal to the Minister, it is intended that where the appeal is based upon medical criteria the investigation is always to be carried out by a medical practitioner. I have not dealt with all the points raised by  Senator Douglas  McClelland. I will have a look at his speech and if there is a point that I want to get to him I will do so. In politics one lives his life and does what he wants to do but nothing has given me a greater thrill than to have this Bill before the Parliament and to have the unanimous support of all parties. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
On 26th September 1972 (Hansard, page 1140)  Senator Georges  asked the Acting Leader of the Government in the Senate a question without notice concerning the Australian Press. I undertook to examine the matter and give the honourable senator an answer. 
I have read what my colleague, the Attorney-General, said and also the editorial comments made by the 'Sydney Morning Herald'. 

 Senator Greenwood did not accuse the Press as a whole of 'prejudice, slanting and selective reporting' nor did he express a Government view of the Press as a whole. 
He made it quite clear that he was exercising the freedom of speech which every senator has, and he referred only to 'some newspapers' as is recorded in Hansard of 20th September, page 993. 
I see no reason, therefore, to seek a reassurance from the Prime Minister as requested by the honourable senator and as suggested by the 'Sydney Morning Herald'. 
On Friday, 27th October 1972  Senator Mulvihill  asked me a question concerning the release of Sydney Harbour Foreshore land. The following information has been provided by the Prime Minister: 
The Army installation at Moore Park covers an area of some 8 acres. There have been reports of a number of proposals for the development of Moore Park in recent years and while there have been some discussions between the Commonwealth and the State in this regard, no firm and specific proposals have been made to me by the Premier. 
Any firm proposals from the State would of course receive very careful consideration, but I must stress that the continuing needs of the Army at Moore Park, especially to provide accommodation for some of the units required to move from the parts of South Head to be released to the State for recreation purposes, would have to be taken into account. 
On 26th October I was asked by  Senator Davidson  whether the Government would initiate a research project into the work of organisations providing counselling at times of stress. 
I can advise that the National Health and Medical Research Council is supporting projects which are related to this matter. A project which aims to study preventative intervention in human crises situations by a Professor Madison of the University of Sydney, Department of Psychiatry, has been supported for several years. 
A further project by Professor A. S. Henderson of the University of Tasmania, Department of Psychiatry, also includes work on the evaluation of community counselling services. Another project in the University of Queensland on depressive illnesses is in a related area. 
On 17th October  Senator Keeffe  asked me a question without notice relating to a reduction by the Queensland Government of certain State Social Service payments. The Minister for Social Services has supplied me with the following information, additional to that which I gave at the time: 
As you will be aware, the various States provide certain financial programmes for the relief of individual hardship, particularly where children are concerned. Although considerable financial assistance is provided by the Commonwealth towards these programmes, the determination of eligibility and the rates of assistance remain the responsibility of the individual State Governments. 
(5.59) - After consultation with other leaders, 1 move: 
That, unless otherwise ordered, the Senate at its rising adjourn until tomorrow at 10 a.m., and that the times of sitting be - 10 a.m. till 1 p.m. 2 p.m. till 6 p.m. 8 p.m. till 1 1 p.m. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
On 28th September 1972 (Hansard, page 1308)  Senator Mulvihill  asked the Acting Leader of the Government in the Senate,  Senator Drake-Brockman,  a question concerning Australian entry to the United Kingdom and an interview which  Sir Alexander  Downer was to have with the British Government. 
I have been advised that the Australian High Commissioner has recently had discussions with both the British Foreign Secretary and the Home Secretary. He has reported that both interviews were very satisfactory and that he had been able to register the Australian point of view. The 
High Commissioner reports that the British authorities are actively considering what action can be taken. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
The Prime Minister has been advised by the Public Service Board that the decision not  to  introduce daylight saving  in  Queensland  is  not expected to create problems for Commonwealth Departments which, of course, are required  to  provide a service to the community and therefore observe hours of duty which as far as practicable reflect community standards. The position in Queensland is not basically different to that which applies in the difference in hours  as  between the Eastern States and South Australia and Western Australia. 
(3.19) - I would be perfectly willing, with the concurrence of honourable senators, to extend question time, for instance, for another 10 minuses, but I just cannot give an open order because we had an occasion when we had questions for11/2 hours. With your indulgence,  Mr President,  1 would be happy to extend questions to the half hour. 
On 11th October 1972  Senator Lawrie  asked me the following question without notice: 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. In view of the lack of reserves of petrol in Queensland due to previous industrial trouble and now  a  new spate of industrial trouble at the Ampol refinery in Brisbane which is likely to bring Queensland to a halt due to  a  shortage of petrol, will the Minister request the Prime Minister to confer with the Premier of Queensland to see whether emergency supplies of petrol can be provided for Queensland? 
In the course of my reply I said that this matter would be referred to the Prime Minister's Department for examination. The Prime Minister has now provided the following information: 
I am informed that the honourable senator's question refers to a stoppage of work on 11th October last at the Ampol refinery in Queensland by members of the Australian Workers Union. The dispute arose out of negotiations for the renewal of an award covering wages and conditions of employment for refinery operators. I am advised that the dispute has now been settled. Commissioner Mansini of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission called the parties before him on 11th October and directed the strikers to return to work to allow conferences on these claims to continue. 
I am further informed that on 13th Octoberthe men returned to work and negotiations recommenced. As  a  result of these further discussions between the parties it is understood that agreement was reached on all matters in dispute and a consent award will shortly be made. I understand that the current petrol supply situation is satisfactory with immediate requirements being met and that the position is slowly returning to normal'. 

On 18th October,  Senator Keeffe  asked a question concerning the salaries payable to certain staff of the Parliament. The Prime Minister has been advisedby the Public Service Board that, in accordance with section 9 of the Public Service Act, the normal functions and powers of the Board, in relation to the staff of the parliamentary departments, are exercised by the Presiding Officers. The Board, therefore, has no formal responsibilities for these staff, notwithstanding that it does provide advice to the Presiding Officers from time to time upon request. There are certain other staff employed in the parliamentary area, for example Secretary- Typists attached to senators and members, who are. not on the staff of the parliamentary departments. The Board does have responsibilities in relation to the determination of the terms and conditions of employment of these staff. So far as they are concerned, their salaries and conditions of employment are related to those applied to comparable members of the Commonwealth Service. The practice has been to extend similar salary increases and similar variations in conditions of service to these staff as are applied generally to other similar Commonwealth staff. 
On 24th October 1972,  Senator Devitt  asked me a question whether consideration was given in the National Health Scheme to the position of psychiatrists and others whose consultations generally are substantially longer than the consultations of medical practitioners and range over a fairly protracted period of time involving a great number of consultations. 
The Medical Benefits Scheme does provide some recognition of the fact that consultations in some specialties are more prolonged than in others. This is reflected in the fact that several items in the Medical Benefits Schedule relate to professional attendances by a consultant physician. The most common fees and benefits for such attendances are higher than those provided for corresponding attendances by other specialists. This differentiation between consultant physicians and various categories of specialist is made with regard to the economics of practice and recognises the extra time taken by consultant physicians particularly for initial consultations. 
Moreover, the Schedule includes a number of items which provide higher fees and benefits in cases where a medical practitioner, whether he is or is not a specialist, is required to provide constant attention for a prolonged period of not less than 2 hours, to a patient in a critical condition arising from certain specific causes. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
and (2) When the abattoir was sold in June 1969, requirements were incorporated in the conditions of sale for the purchaser to make improvements which have now largely been completed. 
It was not considered necessary for Government members to be appointed to the Senate Select Committee on the Canberra Abattoir. The decision to sell the abattoir was taken by the Government after careful consideration of a report prepared by an interdepartmental committee, consisting of officers of the Departments of Health, the Treasury, Primary Industry and the Interior, and the National Capital Development Commission. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
and (2) The new benefits cannot be introduced until the necessary enabling legislation is passed by Parliament. It is also necessary to allow adequate time after the passage of the legislation for the finalisation of arrangements with other organisations and authorities, and for the establishment of the administrative framework within my Department. 
The arrangements to be made involve a great deal of detailed planning with the medical profession, organisations providing nursing services and other organisations and authorities. 
(2.21) - by leave - I move: 
That leave be granted to the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange to meet during sittings of the Senate this day. 
I have conferred with the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  and the Leader of the Democratic Labor Party  (Senator Gair)  on this matter. There exist some very special circumstances which require me in my capacity as Leader of the Government in the Senate,  Senator Murphy  as Leader of the Opposition and  Senator Gair  as Leader of the Democratic Labor Party to agree to this proposal. The circumstances justify a small delegation - 3 in number - going to Sydney tonight. 
(10.48)  -  in reply - I moved a motion that this matter be made an order of the day for the next day of sitting. This was a procedural motion which had to be moved. If I had not moved it  Senator Murphy  may have been obliged to move it himself. In those circumstances I hope that I am not being accused of some villainous conspiracy. I want to be completely frank about this matter if  Senator Murphy  is under any misunderstanding. I never at any time thought, having regard to the magnitude of the Bill, the amendment to the second reading and the foreshadowed amendments which are to be moved during the Committee stage, that we would have been able to dispose of the Bill. I had made a commitment and I hope that I have honoured it. But, as I have said, what I moved was a procedural motion which is the proper thing to do and is part of the procedures of the Senate which  Senator Murphy  would know equally as well as I do. 
Opposition Senators - No. 
(10.24)  -  To all intents and purposes we have dealt with the Bills on the notice paper to the point to which we propose to go. It will be recalled that during the last several weeks, in relation to General Business item No. 18 in the name of  Senator Murphy  and item No. 13 in the name of  Senator Kane.  I gave an assurance that within the limits of my capacity and within the limits of time, when Government business had been disposed of, I would attempt to have the items called on. Pursuant to that undertaking, despite the motions that have been moved during the week, I want to get to that position. Therefore, I seek leave to call on General Business item No. 18 in the name of the Leader of the Opposition,  Senator Murphy. 
(11.13)  -  I oppose the motion because, as you said,  Mr President,  it was not  Senator Little  who initiated this matter.  Senator Wheeldon  raised it on the grounds of misrepresentation.  Senator Little  responded by making a personal explanation. I would suggest,  Mr President,  that that is as far as you can take it. I do not think that the motion moved by  Senator Murphy  will make any contribution to this matter. In fact, it will do infinitely more damage than has been done already. I would resist the motion. 
(4.3) - I thank the Senate for the passage of the Bill at the second reading stage. The Government will not, of course, support the amendment proposed by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Murphy),  even though it may well be that the carrying of the amendment as proposed would not necessarily lose the Bill. 

We would not lose the Bill. 1 agree almost overwhelmingly with the comments made by  Senator Byrne,  and I believe that, since he has put them, it is hardly necessary for me to put them, too. This is an interim Bill. It is stated categorically that the Bill is to operate until 31st December next year. It is quite definitely, without any embellishments, an interim Bill pending the introduction in the new Parliament of another Bill which will, in fact, have regard to the canvass of items that were mentioned by  Senator Murphy.  He mentioned, and I do not mean this in any discourteous way at all, almost every problem that we as a nation have had and are having in relation to the great question - one of the most fundamental questions of our economy - of overseas investment and capital inflow. It is a question through which we have lived during our lifetime in this Parliament and it is one which is in a state of change. 
Many of us seem to forget that Australia is a very young country and that there is a financial and economic limit to the capital that a country can generate. When one considers that this continent is bigger than central Europe but has only a tiny population in terms of the populations of other parts of the world, and when one looks at it in terms of our urge and our national characteristic to develop it, the simple fact is - and we all know it - that even now, with a population of 13 million, we cannot generate the capital which is required to do all the things that we want to do in this nation of ours. We as a nation, as a people - in a taxation sense, a productivity sense or any other sense - cannot generate the capital that we require. Our history, particularly since Federation and through 2 major wars and the smaller wars including the Korean War, has shown that a tremendous capital capability has been required in order to create and to provide the things which this country and the people of this country need. 

 Senator Murphy spoke about the percentages of overseas investment in certain industries. He spoke of the automotive industry, the pharmaceutical industry, the oil industry, and the ferrous metal industry. The simple facts are that, had we not had the advantage of that overseas capital, as a primary producing country of vast size with a variety of climates across the continent and with the ebb and flow of good times and bad times in terms of the elements we would have been a backward country. In the very essence of it we have had overseas investment; in the very essence of it we have had evolving, if one could put it that way, a situation in which overseas investment has had a significant equity in these industries. However, Australia is growing up. Whilst we have always recognised this need for capital, we recognised until the last 5 years or the last decade that capital was a shy bird. But we have grown up; we have become more capable. 
That is right. I can remember that early in my time in the Senate the story was always: "We are not getting sufficient capital for the things that our people require'. If one wants to go back to the simple things, but the important things - in the fields of local government and State government - one remembers that we were always hungry for capital, for schools, hospitals, roads and all these things. However, 1 repeat that we are growing up aud that we have developed. This is a great tribute not only to the people of Australia but also to our way of government in our democracy - and, I might say. it is a tribute to those who have had the responsibility of government in our democracy. Therefore, we have to recognise that this is an interim measure in relation to this question of foreign takeovers. The Government believes that we have reached the stage at which it is desirable and proper that we should have more control to ensure, as we are capable of doing, a greater Australian equity and to insure against the takeover element. This is all wrapped up in world finance, is it not? It is all wrapped up in the banking systems of the great nations of the world and in our currency. In fairness to  Senator Murphy  I point out that he gave us the complete canvas of all the things we need to look at. 1 do not walk away from the fact that when a permanent piece of legislation is introduced the very matters which he has raised will have to be looked at. I say this without prejudice to the way in which we may move in the national interest. The Senate Select Committee on Foreign Ownership and Control has put down its first report. It is a very important report and it canvasses many of the points which  Senator Murphy  has raised. If honourable senators look at my second reading speech they will see that I mention that when the Government does come to a permanent piece of legislation it will very properly look at this report and any subsequent reports which may be put down for consideration. 1 have with me a copy of the 'Sydney Morning Herald' of Thursday, 26th October. I think a small passage in the editorial expresses the position better that I can. It states: 
Wilh its much more mature economy Australia no longer need depend so heavily on foreign investment. As the Prime Minister said in foreshadowing the present Bill, we can now afford to trade off some of  the  benefits of overseas capital for a greater Australian share in our industry and resources, although we still need to be careful how we go about it. 
I think they are effective words. They express the very spirit of this Bill. It is true, as  Senator Murphy  has indicated, that there are technicalities in the procedures of the Bill in this interim period but this is the spirit of the Bill. The intention of the Bill is the fundamental thing which we should be looking at this afternoon. This is an interim situation in relation to takeovers. The fundamental consideration of the Government in the short term is to afford protection against takeovers in this very widely drawn Bill. Indeed, this Bill has a double function because it applies to holding companies as well. That is inherent in the Bill. I want to finish on this note because I am trying to keep to the broad canvas of the function of the Bill. The national interest is the thing. 
We in this Government want, as does everybody, a greater Australian equity and ownership but we realise that we are going through a period of development. We are growing and we cannot do these things with the stroke of the pen. We have to protect the Australian community and Australian capital investment. We have to protect our very way of life by ensuring that when capital does come in its does not do so in the sense of a mere take-over after all the sweat, blood and tears of the industry and the people have been expended. It is the public interest which we have to protect. It is not actually spelt out in the Bill as it is in the second reading speech which I do not need to develop here. I thank the Senate for the passage of the legislation. We resist the amendment but only because this is an interim measure. We will do the things we think we can do with more particularity and greater detail during the life of the new Parliament. But what we are doing here will ensure the protection of Australian citizens and the nation. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be added  (Senator Murphy's amendment)  be added. 
(11.18)- I move: 
That the Senate  do now adjourn. 
This adjournment is very significant in the sense that we are all rising until summoned to return and we will not be summoned until after the general election. I think therefore it is worthy of reflection that we in the Senate have served during the life of this Parliament under tremendous difficulties. We have always been confronted by the problem of the passage of legislation which comes from another place. In fact very often we do not get that legislation until the other place has risen. 
I would like, in the circumstances of this adjournment, firstly to express to you,  Mr President,  on behalf of myself, my Ministers and honourable senators supporting the Government - I am sure, that  1  could include other honourable senators but they will express this through their leaders - our appreciation of the dedication that you have given us as our  President.  You have always been able to keep the peace to a degree which is not always easy in a House where there are honourable senators of strong views and indeed strong emotions. You have exercised your function as Presiding Officer with dignity and with fairness. I am sure that I echo the sentiments of everybody in this place, but I say this particularly on my own behalf, on behalf of my Ministers and those honourable senators who sit behind me in relation to the work that you have done not only for this Senate and the Parliament but in fact for the nation in the democratic processes that we practise. 
I want also, if I may, to express our thanks to the  Clerk  and to his officers for the wonderful assistance they have given to us all in the management of the Senate, management which has not always been easy because of the sheer pressure and volume of the work that we do and, indeed, having regard to the wider perimeters of work which the Senate has carried out during the life of this present Parliament. 1 express thanks to all the officers who serve under  Mr Odgers.  I express thanks to the members of the Hansard staff who faithfully record our words with a degree of co-operation and patience that I think is extraordinary having regard to the excitement that sometimes develops. They always capture our words fairly and accurately. Also, on behalf of myself and Government senators, I express thanks to those who are associated with the Parliament and who provide for our other comforts, who serve below the line and with whom we. do not often come in contact in that sense. 1 express particular thanks to the transport officer and his staff. He lives with a situation in which senators are going and then not going; coming and then not coming: there are fogs and then they lift. Through it all he seems to be. able to keep that pleasant sense of responsibility and patience. I express our thanks to all the people associated with the Parliament and acknowledge the service we receive from them. Of course, in doing that I include an acknowledgment of the service we receive from the Press Gallery. 
Also, in a personal sense, I express my thanks to the Leaders of the other parties. While, in a political sense, we are in a debating area or in an arena, I say this with complete sincerity: A Parliament cannot function unless there is an acknowledgement of the procedures of Parliament. I am not talking about politics at the moment; I am talking about the procedures of Parliament. In the Senate we have a situation in which the numbers are almost evenly divided and in which many great difficulties of management are involved. I express my thanks to  Senator Murphy  and to  Senator Gair,  as Leaders of the other parties, for the fact that they have always been willing to cooperate in the procedures of the Parliament, with your concurrence,  Mr President,  when it has been necessary. 
Having expressed those thanks, 1 wish to say something on a personal level. I have occupied the chair of Leader of the Government in the Senate for about 4 years, lt has been a wonderful experience for me. It has been an experience fraught with problems. But 1 am very proud for myself and my family that I have been able to do it. Of course, exigencies may occur. There may be an exigency of health or a desire which would not necessarily allow me to remain in the chair of Leader of the Government in the Senate. There may be exigencies within the Government itself which would not permit me to remain in this chair. There may even be exigencies in regard to the will of the people on the day of the election which would preclude this. Be those exigencies as they may, I express now my personal thanks to all honourable senators and all those associated with the Senate for the help, co-operation and courtesy that I as Leader of the Government have always received. I say again to you,  Mr President,  that we acknowledge with great appreciation the wonderful service that you as the Presiding Officer, and all associated with you, have given in the interests of the Senate. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
At its 69th Session in November 1969, the National Health and Medical Research Council recommended hygiene standards for exposures to concentrations of chrysotile and amosite asbestos dust in air breathed by workers. These standards are periodically reviewed in the light of all research findings, and any new standards imposed in the United States America  are  considered in such reviews. Mining legislation, including provisions for the prevention of industrial disease in mine workers, is the responsibility of the respective State Governments. 
I am informed that it seems unlikely that the use of floor polishers on vinyl tiles could give rise to an asbestos dust hazard, since the nature of the operation and the materials used do not provide dust. However, there is evidence that an asbestos dust hazard could arise when a vinyl floor is being stripped by abrasives, prior to the laying of a new covering. The National Health and Medical Research Council is preparing comprehensive draft model legislation for the protection of workers from atmospheric contaminants. 
The relevant Commonwealth and State Departments are being kept informed of developments in this respect. 
The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows:  (1)The Report of the results of the survey of the fitness of Australian secondary school students was released by the Commonwealth Council for National Fitness on 12th September 1972. A limited number of advance copies of the report are held by my Department pending the availability of printed copies which are expected about the end of the year. 
The Report does not stale that Australian secondary school students are among the most unfit in the world. Before it could be published it had to be considered and released by the Commonwealth Council for National Fitness as the survey was commissioned by that Council and  Dr Willee's  report was to the Council. 
and (4) Although the National Fitness Act was introduced in 1941, it is generally still considered appropriate. However, consideration is being given to the question of whether any changes should be made to the Act andthe honourable senator may be assured that the question of representation by specialist groups will be kept in mind. 
The Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Commonwealth Statistician has advised that statistics of the amounts of excise duty paid on beer in the Northern Territory and in each of the States of Victoria, Queensland, South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania are compiled under the authority of the Census and Statistics Act 1905-1966 and in terms of that Act are not published separately as to do so would divulge confidential information relating to the operations of the respective companies engaged in beer brewing activities in the Northern Territory and in the States concerned. No excise duty is paid on beer in the Australian Capital Territory, as there is no brewery operating in that Territory. 
On 30th October,  Senator O'Byrne  asked me a question concerning Government assistance to victims of the drug thalidomide in Australia. I now provide the following information: 
In July 1963, the late  Senator Wade,  then Minister for Health, announced special arrangements designed to assist children born deformed as a result of their mothers' taking the drug thalidomide. The Commonwealth agreed to share equally with the States the cost of fitting artificial limbs to such children. It was announced that the limbs would be supplied and fitted by Repatriation Department Artificial Limb and Appliance Centres which were also to provide initial training in their use. 
Subsequent rehabilitation services were to be provided by the States but the Commonwealth decided to make available, for consultation with State authorities, specialists from the Repatriation Department and from the Department of Health's Institute  of Child Health. This was intended to provide a 'team' approach to the provision of the most effective assistance to these children. 
Furthermore, a specialist in the Repatriation Department investigated European techniques for the fitting of prostheses and subsequent training of thalidomide babies, and an eminent specialist advisor was also brought to Australia from overseas. These arrangements have proceeded satisfactorily and more than 20 children have received the assistance prescribed. The provision of any legal aid to persons taking proceedings for damages in the States is essentially a State matter. There is no provision for the Commonwealth to provide legal aid in these circumstances where proceedings in the States are involved, except perhaps by way of some form of special ex gratia payment. As far as can be ascertained there has been no request for such an ex gratia payment in respect of thalidomide babies. 
I  want to use the form of asking a question to make an explanation. Apparently, my notice 

 Questions paper mathematics are not too good. The figure which  I  cited related to the number of questions put on notice; it did not have regard to the ones taken off.  I  regret that error. The other point is that  I  never at any time thought, or suggested in my question, that  I  was directing my remarks at Ministers in this place.  I  realise that questions cover the whole ambit of the 27 Ministers. 
This Bill is intended to improve parliamentary retiring allowances and judge's pensions which are fixed by Acts of Parliament. The proposals in the Parliamentary allowances legislation were foreshadowed in a statement of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  which was repeated in this place when we were considering the Remuneration and Allowances Bill last March. The proposals in this Bill, in the broad canvass, cover those proposals to which we were alerted and which in the generality 1 am sure received approval when the statements were made at that time. For that reason I can say that the Liberal senators in the Opposition give complete support to the Bill. We believe that we will be able to assist in the passage of this legislation in the time allotted for debate under the present arrangements. 
Very briefly, the Bill provides that the retiring allowances for those qualified to receive them under the principal Act will be changed. At present they receive 50 per cent of the contributor's Parliamentary base salary. Their pensions will be changed to have regard to the length of their parliamentary service to enable their pension to increase from 50 per cent after 8 years to a ceiling of 75 per cent after 20 years' service. The other chief provision in the Bill is for the rate of pension for judges on retirement, on conditions otherwise provided, to increase from 50 per cent to 60 per cent of the salary at retirement. 
It may be asked why we are dealing with parliamentarians at one level and the judiciary at a different level in the same Bill. Quite obviously - it should be stated so that it will be clearly understood - it is because the judiciary does not have a contribtion scheme for retirement pensions, whereas parliamentarians pay a contribution of the order of Hi per cent per annum of base salary. That is a significant rate of contribution from parliamentarians. As against that, I repeat that the judiciary is not required to contribute to a retirement scheme under this legislation. 
The other thing that I want to refer to quickly is the decision which becomes evident in the Bill with which we are dealing to abandon the ministerial pension arrangements. I could not think of anything wiser and more sensible than that. If ever there was an extraordinary proposition which never pleased any Minister who was obliged to contribute for a pension, it was this scheme - except for Ministers who became eligible almost at the time the Act came into being. The ministerial pension scheme provided that contributions would be made to the fund by Ministers and they would become eligible to receive a pension after 8 years as Ministers. If the Minister did not succeed in being a Minister for more than 8 years, even if he stayed in Parliament for another 30 years after he was a Minister, he would receive at the date of his retirement only the amount of money he put into the fund. 
Disregarding the world tendency to inflation, even under the old order of things the value of money would have fallen. A person could be a Minister for 7 years and 11 months and make contributions of, say, $5,000; then he could remain a member of Parliament for another 30 years and when he retired - even if he stayed in the Parliament almost until he died on his feet - he would receive from the pension fund only the exact amount of money he put in. The relative value of what he received would be absurd. In this legislation the Government is proposing to abandon that system. What would happen if a Minister took out an endowment policy or some sort of insurance policy and paid into it for 7i years? There would be no comparison betweeen what he would receive from the insurance policy and the benefits he would receive under the previous ministerial retirement fund. 
Under the proposed scheme former Minister or former leaders of parties, if they were eligible under the previous scheme - I happen to be one of them - when they retire from the Parliament will receive the ministerial pension in the ordinary way. Those former Ministers and former leaders of parties who would not have been eligible under the old system for a ministerial pension now will not have to wait until they retire to receive the amount of money they contributed. They will now be able to receive that money without delay. Of course, there is a provision in the Bill that those eligible for a pension, having been former Ministers for 8 years, may withdraw their contributions when they wish. Of course, that would be very unwise, particularly in a pension fund which is a good and sensible arrangement. 
The only other thing I want to say is that whereas this Bill will provide for parliamentarians from the time of their retirement under the provisions of the principal Act and the new Act, it should never be forgotten that there are about 170 former parliamentarians or dependants of parliamentarians who will automatically receive benefits as a result of the passage of this Bill, subject to the royal assent. They will automatically get significant increases in retirement benefits. That is something that we should also bear in mind. It is a very good feature of the Bill. In fact, former members of Parliament and their dependants will attract quite significant increases in some cases. It should also be appreciated that these people will also be eligible for a pension up to the 75 per cent ceiling where they are former Ministers or dependants of Ministers who had over 8 years and up to 20 years service as a Minister. 
In conclusion, I just want to mention that 1, of course, am a trustee of the fund. 1 believe that this Bill is an excellent piece of legislation. It is true that it is inevitable that one would find a lack of provisions in it for some people who we may say have not yet been provided for adequately. It would be quite stupid of me to suggest that that is not so. For instance, honourable senators would be aware of a point that has been raised in relation to the question of dependants where the contributor to the fund is a bachelor or a spinster. There are some questions in relation to the passing on of benefits to the dependants of these people where there is not a wife or parent concerned. Nevertheless, even though this Bill does not cover that particular point and even though there might be some oddities in the winding up of ministerial funds I say that we should not deny the passage of this Bill. I believe that in the generality it is a particularly good Bill and we should give it a speedy passage. Those matters that are not dealt with on this occasion should be referred to the trustee for further examination and if they are prepared to make recommendations to the Government for subsequent variations of the Act that is something they are entitled to do. But we should not deny the passage of this Bill. The Liberal Party senators in the Opposition consider that this is a good Bill which should be passed this morning. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. It adverts to a statement by the Minister for Defence some days ago which indicated that Australia had entered into and, I think, completed an agreement with the United States National Aeronautics and Space Administration for an additional launch program at Woomera? Will this new agreement, which I think we all hail as a good thing for Woomera, have any bearing on the decision which has been taken in regard to defence retrenchments which, as I understand the position, also involved some retrenchments at the Woomera station? 
-by leave-I join with the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  and the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers),  who spoke on behalf of all Opposition parties, in offering our congratulations to the new Leader of the Australian Democratic Labor Party  (Senator McManus).  But more particularly, having been a former Leader of the Government in the Senate for four and a half years prior to December last it was my responsibility to have discussions with leaders of the other parties. 
I had discussions with  Senator Murphy  who now sits in the chair of the Leader of the Government in the Senate and with  Senator Gair  who was the Leader of the Australian Democratic Labor Party. That is the very essence of the way in which our Senate has been working having regard to the fact that we are primarily a second chamber and also to the fact that the Government did not have a majority. There has been a high degree of co-operation in the management of the second chamber. I put on record that during the years I was Leader of the Government in the Senate and had contact with  Senator Gair  as Leader of the third Party we did not always agree. But there is no doubt that the honourable senator has a capacity, gained over long years of parliamentary life, to be able to make himself clearly understood. He was able to make his intentions and the intentions of his Party clear. 
One of the wonderful things about the relationship I had as Government Leader with  Senator Gair  was that whenever he said in discussion with me that his Party would take a point of view on a certain matter, his word was his bond on behalf of his Party. One could be sure in the management of the second chamber of the national Parliament that at least that particular party would take a point of view. One could put it out of one's mind in relation to the future in this chamber of the matter concerned. I offer my congratulations to  Senator Gair  for the wonderful yean of parliamentary life that he has had both as a Premier of a State and as leader of a party. I wish him good health for the remaining years that he will have here. I hope to have left to me about the same number of years that he will have here. I should like to recall one little snippet in lighter vein, if I may. I often said to my loyal party members who sat behind me: 'If you fellows take on Vince Gair you will get a lesson in being on your feet in the political arena. If you are going to take him on on a certain subject, make sure you know that subject before you start.' I commend that advice to Government members even though he will now be sitting on a back bench. I wish him well. 
-On behalf of the Liberal Party of Australia, I join with the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  in expressing condolence to the family of the late J. A. McCallum. I wish to place on the record of the Senate the tremendous regard and affection that we all had for him. I knew John McCallum for over 40 years. As the Leader of the Government in the Senate has indicated, John McCallum died during the holiday break in December of last year. I was able to attend his funeral service where I made the point to his family that I was representing the whole of the Senate. 
As the Leader of the Government in the Senate has said, John McCallum was an educationist. He had a Bachelor of Arts degree. He was a high school teacher. Primarily he taught history. He was a lecturer at a teachers college in 1947 and 1949. As the Leader of the Government in the Senate has also said, John McCallum was wounded while serving in the First Australian Imperial Force. He was one of the lecturers who delivered the old Workers Education Association lectures. As a very young man- I was a little ambitious in my early twenties- I attended lectures on economic subjects on 2 nights a week for a couple of years. John McCallum was one of the lecturers who lectured to me. 
John McCallum had an association with the Australian Labor Party during its early years of divisions and problems. He became a senator in 1949 and retired in 1962. As a back bench member of the Senate he made a tremendous contribution to the Parliament.  His  interests were always associated with foreign affairs, a subject on which he was a commentator. In the old days when only station 2BL was on the air at night he used to give a foreign affairs commentary after the 7 o'clock news. That was before we had television. He concentrated his interests in the Parliament on foreign affairs but also had a tremendous love for the development of Canberra. I think he was the foundation  Chairman  of the Senate Select Committee on the Development of Canberra that was set up in 1 954. 
-He actually moved the motion for its creation. He was the influencing factor behind the creation of the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory, a committee of which he became Chairman. As the Leader of the Government has said, John McCallum 's activities in the Senate led to the creation of the National Capital Development Commission. 
Perhaps I should say in lighter vein that as a Temporary  Chairman  of Committees he always remained a school teacher. For the benefit of  Senator Webster,  who has just been appointed  Chairman  of Committees, I wish to point out that, as a Temporary  Chairman  of Committees, John McCallum was constantly experiencing difficulties in handling a particular senatorSenator Grant- and finally in desperation he said to  Senator Grant:  'You will leave the room '. 
John McCallum was a lovable character. I always remember, for instance, that without prejudice to his senatorial duties he would do the daily crossword puzzle and if he had not worked it out before the end of question time he would reckon that he was slipping. He was also a great linguist. He loved the French language. He could hold his own in any company in a discussion in the French language. There was always time during his period in the Senate, despite the heat and burden of senatorial duties, for honourable senators to have a smile. At the same time, as the Leader of the Government has said, he made a tremendous contribution to the development of this nation. I am sure that I am speaking on behalf of the Liberal Party in saying what I have said. We all have the same sentiments. We express our sympathy with his family. We would all want it to be recorded that in peace and war he gave service to his country of which his family can be mighty proud. 
Wait for it. In view of the impending Senate election which will doubtless bring new senators into this chamber and against the risk that some new senator, having done his homework on the Standing Orders, could on the ringing of the bells come streaking into the Senate and rise uncovered and address you, will you,  Mr President,  have the Standing Orders Committee look at the standing order to which I have referred? 
-I join other honourable senators in supporting the motion of sympathy in memory of the late  Senator McKenna.  I came to this place in 1953 at the time when he was Leader of the Opposition. I had a profound respect for him as a parliamentarian. It was always an inspiration to be able to follow him when invited to lead for the Government in a debate or to respond in a debate on behalf of the Government, as I was on many occasions, because whilst in the parliamentary sense we heard second-reading speeches which were prepared by Ministers, after  Senator McKenna  as Leader of the Opposition had spoken one always had a far greater appreciation of the issues. I recall that he had a technique of restating the case before attempting to attack it. He had a fascinating method of debating. He would restate the case of the Government in very brief terms and then he would argue against the Government's points seriatim. When one followed him one knew one was taking part in a comprehensive debate of an issue. 
As  Senator Murphy  said, he always brought his Standing Orders into the Senate with him when we commenced our operations. He was a tremendous help to a presiding officer. Time and time again when a point of order was taken  Senator McKenna  would rise and speak on that point of order, not only to make the point he wanted to make but also, deliberately and consciouslyand the presiding officer appreciated it- to give the presiding officer time to formulate his judgment. Sometimes he actually said:  'Mr President,  I realise that this is a matter you will want to give some consideration to before you make a judgment, and whilst I am making a point on this matter I realise that you may also be reflecting on the issues while I am speaking'. 
I always found  Senator McKenna  a charming man and a man dedicated to his cause. For many years he stayed at the Hotel Canberra where many of us stayed, and it would be true to say that there would not be a night when he went back after the Parliament rose without taking documents and papers in order to make himself ready to present a case for the Opposition on subsequent days. I agree with  Senator Murphy  when I say I do not remember him interjecting in the sense that we sometimes do in this Parliament in more recent times. He was a good debater and a good and devoted servant of his party. He served the nation well not only as a Minister of State but also as Leader of the Opposition in the Senate. I had the honour to represent the  President  at ex-Senator McKenna 's funeral service and was able to speak to his family. I am sure that his contribution to our nation during the time when he was a Minister of State and Leader of  Her  Majesty's Opposition was of great benefit to our national development. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honourable senators standing in their places. 
DEATH OF mr j. C. SEXTON 

 Senator MURPHY (New South WalesLeader of the Government in the Senate)-  Mr Deputy President,  it is with deep regret that I inform the Senate of the death on 22 April 1974 of Joseph Clement Sexton, a former member of the House of Representatives. Joseph Sexton was an Australian Labor Party member for the Division of Adelaide from 1958 to 1966. For all his adult life he was a unionist, a union official, a Party official or a member of this Parliament. Before being elected the member for Adelaide he had been Assistant Secretary-Treasurer of the Building Workers' Industrial Union of South Australia in the years 1950-52 and then organiser of the South Australian Branch of the Australian Labor Party. 
In 1953 he was elected secretary of the South Australian Branch of our Party, a redoubtable training ground for parliamentarians.  His  predecessor in that office was  Senator Toohey,  and his successors have been the honourable member for Bonython,  Mr Martin  Nicholls, the South Australian Minister for Transport, the honourable G. T. Virgo MHA, and the new member for Port Adelaide,  Mr Mick  Young. Joe Sexton was the kind of man who forms the backbone of political parties and, it should be said, of this Parliament- men who are hardworking and who do not seek high office. This Parliament could scarcely exist and certainly could not long survive except for men like Joe Sexton. He was a kindly, courteous and hardworking man who looked after his electorate well and did the work which it is necessary to do if the Parliament is really going to maintain its links with the people of our nation. Political parties need balance. It is men like Sexton who provide our parties and our Parliament with that balance. I, along with some others here, remember him, and all that we remember of him is good. He was a good parliamentarian and a good man.  Mr Deputy President,  I ask for leave to move a motion. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Webster)-  Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
That the Senate expresses its deep regret at the death on 22 April 1 974 of Joseph Clement Sexton, a member of the House of Representatives for the Division of Adelaide from 19S8 to 1966, places on record its appreciation of his long and meritorious public service and tenders its profound sympathy to his family in their bereavement. 
I ask for leave to table the report from the Australian Delegation to the InterParliamentary Council meetings in Geneva last year. 

 - Mr President, on behalf of the Leader of the Opposition and indeed of the Liberal members of the Opposition Parties, I wish to give our support to the motion moved by the Leader of the Government in the Senate. The passing of the Right Honourable  Sir Eric  Harrison marks a very significant part of the history of the national Parliament. Yesterday you,  Sir, in  your capacity as the  President  of the Senate and I, representing the Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Snedden,  and on my own behalf, were pallbearers at the State funeral which was accorded to  Sir Eric.  The expressions of sympathy that were conveyed at that State ceremony yesterday to Lady Harrison and her family, and the widely representative groups that attended to convey their respects to the memory of the man who had passed away, made it a very moving occasion for us all. 
The Leader of the Government has very properly given the history of this former parliamentarian. It is not necessary for me to traverse that again in detail. That he represented an electoral division for 25 years and then went on to hold the office of Australian High Commissioner in London for a period of 8 years is a significant record in its own right. But the life of Eric Harrison as a citizen, as a parliamentarian, as an ex-serviceman and as a diplomat could, I believe, be used as a model and pattern by any person in Australia who aspires to serve his country. Eric Harrison was a man who did not come to public life blessed with the educational background which many people have in modern times. His formal education was a modest one but he had a tremendous urge to serve his country. This urge found expression in service in this place for a period of 25 years. During that period he served in almost every office other than Presiding Officer and Prime Minister. He did in fact act as Prime Minister on one occasion. He served in many portfolios. 
You,  Mr President,  and I, who have been here longer than most knew Eric Harrison's qualities  because we saw them applied in practice. As the 
Leader of the Government has said, he had political integrity. He had integrity not only in his home life and family life but also in his parliamentary life. He loved a political fight, but at all times he adhered to a code in that fight. Although he did not come to this place blessed with the advantages of modern youth, he did his homework and he was tremendously efficient in whatever he did in the duties of any portfolio which he held, as Leader of the House and also on the hustings. As a very ambitious young man in parliamentary life I joined him on the hustings. He was magnificent and he could hammer home his point. He loved every moment of it, but he adhered throughout to the code of a fair go and playing according to the rules. 
He had the blessing of being able to enjoy people. He had a sense of humour. He loved simple things, too. He loved his family life. He had a great joy of things which people sometimes lose sight of when they engage in politics and become engrossed in the affairs of State. These things did not pass Eric Harrison by. He had a great honour. He was a Privy Councillor. He was a K.C.M.G. and a K.C.V.O. But he was a simple man in many ways. He loved nature. He loved to be able to enjoy a lovely morning. He could enjoy the singing of the birds in the spring. He loved the sea. Those qualities in truth helped to make him a better man to serve Australia. In his seniority, in his efficiency, in his capability as a parliamentarian he had the qualities of integrity and loyalty. He had a love of nature and an eagerness, right until his final illness, to serve Australia as he did as a citizen, as a family man, as a parliamentarian, as an ex-serviceman and as a diplomat. I am sure that all honourable senators of the Liberal Party join in supporting the motion moved by the Leader of the Government to express our sincere sympathy to Lady Harrison and her family and our profound admiration of one who served Australia so faithfully and well throughout his adult lifetime and made a tremendous contribution in this time to our history and to the progress and development of Australia. 

 - Mr President, I give notice that, on the next day of sitting, I shall move: 
That the Senate is of the opinion that the Family Law Bill 1974 should not be further considered by the Senate for a period of at least 6 months, in order that- 
full and proper consideration can be given by senators and all other interested persons to the Report of the Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs, tabled in the Senate on 1 S October; and 
full and adequate opportunity be available for all interested persons to consider the details of the Bill and the possible or likely effects of its implementation, if carried. 
I present 4 petitions, identical in wording and from 12, 29, 43 and 164 citizens of Australia respectively, in the following terms: 
To the Honourable, the  President  and members of the Senate of Australia in Parliament assembled: 
The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That, in modern society which accepts divorce, the law of divorce should be fair to both parties. However, we are very concerned about proposals to alter the law in the Family Law Bill1974. 1. The Family Law Bill, 1974 would fundamentally change the institution of marriage itself; that is all existing and future marriages. 2. The said Bill does not protect the legal and social rights of women and children in the family. 3. The said Bill does not provide for either the training of suitable counsellors who can assist in conciliation procedures or for suitable initiatives to be taken prior to the breakdown of marriage. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that this Bill be tabled for 6 months and that all sections of the community be consulted on marriage, the family and the long term effects of such a Bill upon our Australian society. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petitions received and first petition read. 
1 direct my question to the Minister for Customs and Excise and Attorney-General. Yesterday in the Wollongong courts a man was convicted of having a significant amount of heroin in his possession. In that State court he received a penalty of 2 years imprisonment with possible parole after 12 months. To me that is almost an unbelievable minimum sentence for such a wicked, shameful offence. I use those words deliberately in relation to heroin. I know that the Minister has spoken on this subject before. Is any attempt being made to establish uniformity with the States in relation to penalties for drug peddling? There is no redemption from heroin addiction, lt is a frightening thing if the sentence awarded at Wollongong is to be the order of punishment for heroin trafficking. 

 - Mr President, I seek leave to comment on the statement made by  Senator James  McClelland. 
I heard on the communications system a question being raised as to the implications of releasing evidence which was taken in camera before this Committee. As the senator who initially asked a question in relation to this matter, I think that in fairness to  Senator James  McClelland I should make the point that the inference that could be drawn from the releasing of evidence given in camera, as raised by  Senator Young-  I think it was fair enough that he should raise the matterdoes not arise in these circumstances. I understand that the decision to take the evidence in camera was made because the witnesses were giving special evidence. Three of the witnesses, including the Attorney-General himself, were from the Attorney-General's Department and were giving technical evidence. As I understand it, it was quite clear that there was no suggestion that the evidence was being given in camera in order to withhold publication of the evidence. So I am quite certain that the point raised by  Senator Young  and  Senator Cavanagh-  I think it was proper that they should raise it- has no application in these circumstances. 
I seek leave to raise a matter in connection with the placing of business. 
I seek leave to amend my amendment by deleting the words 'according to law in Australia' and inserting the words 'subject to the provisions of this Act or any other Act '. 
I present the following petition from 230 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and the members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That, we, the undersigned, are not opposed to the simplification of divorce proceedings, but have serious objections to the Family Law Bill 1974; 
That, the concept of marriage contained in Section 26 subsection 2 is of marriage, as a transitory, and temporary union dissolvable by the simple passing of a period of twelve months separation; 
That, such a concept of marriage will destroy the contractual nature of marriage, undermine the total commitment of two persons to each other and threaten the integrity of family life which is the basis of our society; 
That a Bill with such serious implications deserves to be considered as a matter of public importance and be the object of the community debate which it warrants. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled should vote against the Bill in its present form, allow public consideration of amendments and then vote to so amend the Bill as to strengthen and support marriage and the family in a manner acceptable to the people of Australia. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. Petition received and read. 
May I have leave to make a comment? 
If I give the reasons I would have said all I have to say. 
I regret the comments that the Leader of the Government has made. I could understand it if he had said, for reasons in which he believes, the Government proposed to use the guillotine. But this is a form of duress that is being put on the Senate, which the Senate just cannot abide. It is unprecedented to do it in this way. The AttorneyGeneral should come into the open and say: 'I believe we must have this Bill tonight. We, the Government, want it to be debated in an hour and a half.' He should take the front line and put down a motion accordingly. To try to get the Bill in this backhanded way, I find very distressing. He knows, as I have indicated to him previously, that I feel this is below the line. I think it is a very unfortunate way to do it. If he had done it in a more direct way it would have been the will of the Senate. I am sorry to have to say this, but it is the way that I feel about the matter. 
May I quickly respond to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs,  Senator Cavanagh,  and to  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack. I acknowledge that  Senator Cavanagh  and I sat on the Senate Standing Orders Committee for many years and acted in a non-party way, as we are acting now. We have had great debates on Standing Orders and on the rights and privileges of senators inherent in them. When the honourable senator was speaking in opposition to my amendment he brought out a point. Had he settled for that and not for a complete rejection of my amendment I think I might have tried to work on him a bit. I would have pointed out that this proposed standing order makes flesh of one and fowl of another in terms of the implication of leave. It would have been equitable if the Manager of Government Business in the Senate  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  had said: 'Let us have the same rights for both. If a question is directed to a  chairman  and leave is given, all subsequent questions on the same day to the  chairman  should not require leave'. But it is the inequity which is my basic objection to the proposed standing order. That is whyI am taking out the matter of' by leave '. 
I come to the remarks of  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack. He said that there was delay in providing answers. But the inequity which I see in the proposed standing order is that we could have the situation where a question might be answered the next day but there could be a delay in answering a subsequent question in perpetuity because an honourable senator is refused leave every time he seeks to answer. So there is a complete delay. The first question could be asked. There might be a little delay in answering but some other honourable senator may not even ask his question because he does not get leave. This is the thing that frightens me. It is true that we will give the proposal 6 months' trial. That is fair enough. I agree with that. I am prepared to go quietly now and have a vote on the matter, if a vote is necessary. But I think we should have the situation so that all honourable senators are equal. It should not be a situation where some honourable senators can have leave and some cannot. The logical answer is for the matter to be put on notice. 
All that is proposed is the elimination of 23 words which I have heard used in regard to every Bill presented in the last 2 1  Vi  years, and the formal motion which follows its presentation. It is traditional. I cannot remember any other circumstances in which they have been said. It is traditional to use the words: 'that so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the Bill being passed through all its stages without delay'. Then honourable senators are asked whether they are in favour and the motion is declared carried or not carried. I do not know how many seconds it takes to say those words but that can be timed if someone wants to do so. Through the years in this Parliament the Government has had the right to proceed or not to proceed with a Bill. But if we remove those words we will be flying blind because we do not know whether that can happen. We would not know whether so much of the Standing Orders would be suspended as to enable the Government to push a Bill through or whether the Government would go through the normal procedure. Traditionally those words have been used and then the Leader of the Opposition has been permitted to move the adjournment of the debate on the Bill until the next day. Is that not the procedure? 
-That is what happens. I have hear those words used. In fact as a Cabinet Minister and a Minister of State for 9 years I had to use those words every time I introduced a Bill. That meant that the Government, or the Minister handling the Bill, had the options. We all knew that by the use of those words the Minister had the options. Now it is proposed that they be taken out so that we will not know whether the Minister will use the options. An honourable senator may want to move a motion for the adjournment of the debate after the second reading of a Bill when suddenly, out of the blue, something else may happen. The Minister in charge of the Bill may say: Oh well, when we get to a certain stage the debate will be adjourned until the next day'. We knew that that would happen because the words are in the Standing Orders. If what is proposed in this motion is accepted it will mean that we will not know what will happen. We will be flying blind. We will probably think that the ordinary procedure will be followed so that the Leader of the Opposition or somebody else can move a motion for the adjournment of the debate at the second reading stage or when we go into committee. If what is suggested is accepted we will never know what is to happen until it happens. 
-Yes. I would not go to the barricades over this proposals either because I think it is one of the least important that our Standing Orders Committee has brought forward. It has been brought forward only because some Ministers do not like the jargon. I have heard a Leader of the Government say: 'Let us cut out the jargon'. The fact is that those words were inserted to warn honourable senators that they may face a situation when a Bill could go straight through without delay. The passage of this proposal will mean that they will not have any warning. If that is what honourable senators want I will not vote against it but I would like to see the standing order left as it is. 
