I direct the attention of the Leader of the Government in the Senate to a statement in this morning's newspapers that the Pope intends, and has issued instructions, to disband the Vatican armed forces, except the 600 soldiers in the Swiss guard. I ask the Minister whether this gesture by His Holiness, the Pope, will be wasted on this Government or whether the Government will take any notice of it. 
I would not want to implicate  His  Holiness in politics in this place. Suffice it for me to say that whatever decision he has taken in relation to that locality will have been taken because of certain circumstances associated with it. I think it would be quite inappropriate and quite out of keeping for me to make any further comment. 
I address a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate in his capacity as Minster representing the Minister for Trade and Industry. Is the continuing shortage of first class coking coal causing the Government concern? In particular, are long term Japanese contracts embarrassing the Government and the whole of the coal trade? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONAs I understand it, that matter would come within the portfolio of the Minister for National Development, because the Joint Coal Board has a line of communication with and responsibility to that Department. Therefore I ask the Minister representing the Minister for National Development whether he would like to respond tq the question. If he does not wish to do so, I shall ask the honourable senator to put the question on notice. 

 - Mr President, I ask the Government whether it will examine the statement made yesterday at a conference of refrigeration engineers that only 2 per cent" of the refrigerators manufactured in Australia are efficient as far as insulation is concerned. The statement was reported in all the newspapers. I believe that this is a matter of importance because summer is just about to arrive. 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry because of his reply to a previous question about the meat problem. He said that there was no information about the matter in the hands of the Government. I and a number of other senators were involved in a discussion in the Senate about trouble at Dubbo and Orange relating to meat works. As a result conferences were held and there was a discussion in an adjournment debate. This had to do with the reasons advanced by the Americans for not using Australian meat. One argument advanced was that our meat was below the acceptable standard of cleanliness. Questions were asked about this. I and, I think.  Senator McClelland  directed questions to the Minister. Why is it that this Government allows low standard meat to be eaten by Australian soldiers but not by American soldiers? That is the situation at the moment. 
I wish to refer to the attitude of Government supporters over the years that I have been here in claiming credit for the Meats on Wheels organisation. They speak of the meals it provides as though they are a handout to pensioners. In the area of which I speak - around Kings Cross and Woolloomooloo - pensioners pay for the meals provided by Meals on Wheels. If they do not have the money they do not get the meal. It is within my experience that quite often pensioners who do not have 20c to buy a dinner club together with someone else to buy a meal and then divide it between them. Another favourite subterfuge or stratagem of old age pensioners to get something out of the handout is to buy a meal for 20c and then make it serve for both dinner and tea. This is common with old age pensioners who are so old that they can hardly eat, and there are plenty of them around. They pay for one meal and make it serve for two. 
I would not like honourable senators to think that the Meals on Wheels scheme is the be-all and end-all for pensioners. The scheme is designed to help these people, but they still have to battle. I have seen many pensioners who are forced to club together to buy a meal. A meal costs 20c from Meals on Wheels. If a pensioner cannot afford 20c, he and another pensioner club together to buy a meal and they divide it between them. That is the Meals on Wheels scheme. It would be laughable if it were not so sad. I have seen hundreds of people who have to buy their meals like that but no attempt is made by the Government to understand the situation. These people are at rock bottom. T appreciate that social workers are associated with the Meals on Wheels scheme. They glamorise it. The trucks are running around and people think that they are doing wonderful social work. In one way they are, but it should not be thought that the scheme solves the problems of the pensioners. 
Yes, as far as I know. If that is not so, I apologise. 
Apparently they are charged for everywhere. Probably the Government does not know that. Perhaps Government supporters would not be so happy about the scheme if they knew that. This has been the practice in East Sydney, Woolloomooloo and places like that for as long as I can remember. It is still the practice. Honourable senators can take my word for it that hundreds of women pensioners club together and put in 20c each to buy food. The amount of food they get in this way is more than they would be able to get if each spent 20c. This is how the pensioners eke out an existence. I have referred to this matter only to indicate to the Senate that everything is not as it would appear from this debate. 
